Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY Pending securities litigation or the failure to fulfill the obligations under the deferred prosecution agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice or the Consent Order with the Securities and Exchange Commission could adversely affect Time Warner’s operations. In connection with the resolution of the investigation by the DOJ of the Company, AOL entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with the DOJ. In accordance with the agreement, the DOJ filed a criminal complaint against AOL in December 2004 for the conduct of certain employees in connection with securities fraud by PurchasePro.com, but the DOJ will defer prosecution of AOL and will dismiss the complaint in December 2006 provided the Company fulfills its obligations under the deferred prosecution agreement. For a discussion of these obligations, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings — Government Investigations.” If the Company does not satisfy its obligations, the DOJ can proceed with the prosecution of AOL for actions in connection with PurchasePro.com, as set forth in the complaint, and may consider additional actions against the Company, which could have significant adverse 39 Table of Contents effects on its operations and financial results. The Company intends to satisfy its obligations under the deferred prosecution agreement. In addition, in connection with the settlement with the SEC, the Company consented to the entry of a Consent Order requiring it to comply with federal securities laws and regulations and the terms of an earlier order. If the Company is found to be in violation of the Consent Order, it may be subject to increased penalties and consequences as a result of the prior actions. In connection with the SEC settlement, an independent examiner was appointed to review whether the Company’s historical accounting for certain transactions with 17 counterparties was in conformity with GAAP. The independent examiner has begun its review, which has been extended and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006. Depending on the independent examiner’s conclusions, a further restatement of the Company’s financial statements may be necessary. It is also possible that, so long as there are unresolved issues associated with the Company’s financial statements, the effectiveness of any registration statement of the Company or its affiliates may be delayed. As of February 23, 2006, 41 putative class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state securities laws as well as purported breaches of fiduciary duties had been filed against Time Warner, certain of its current and former executives, past and present members of its Board of Directors and, in certain instances, AOL. There is also a consolidated action making allegations of ERISA violations. The complaints purport to be made on behalf of certain of the Company’s shareholders and allege, among other things, that Time Warner violated various provisions of the securities laws. There are also actions filed by individual shareholders pending in federal and state courts. Although the Company has reached an agreement to settle the primary consolidated securities class action lawsuits, the settlement is subject to final court approval, and some members of the class have elected to “opt out” of the settlement to pursue their claims separately. Similarly, although the parties have reached an understanding to resolve the consolidated action alleging ERISA violations, the settlement is subject to definitive documentation and necessary court approvals. In addition, the shareholder derivative and individual securities actions remain pending and the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these remaining related matters. The Company has established a reserve of $3 billion, with $2.4 billion related to the proposed settlement of the primary consolidated securities class actions and $600 million in connection with the remaining shareholder derivative, ERISA and securities matters (including suits brought by individual shareholders who decided to “opt-out” of the settlement in the primary securities class action). The Company has paid, or agreed to pay, approximately $335 million, before providing for any remaining potential insurance recoveries, to settle certain of these claims and is incurring expenses as a result of the pending litigation. Costs associated with judgments in or additional settlements of these matters could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings — Securities Matters.” Several of the Company’s businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, and if Time Warner does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. Time Warner’s businesses operate in the highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries. Several of these businesses are to a large extent dependent on the ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish their products and services from those of their competitors. The acquisition, development, adoption, exploitation and distribution of new and existing technology may take long periods of time and may require significant capital investments. The Company may be required to anticipate far in advance which technologies and equipment it should adopt for new products and services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to its existing products and services. If it chooses technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its operations, business or financial results could be adversely affected. Time Warner also may not be able to anticipate the demand for products and services requiring new technology and equipment. Therefore, it is possible that the Company could select a technology that does not achieve widespread commercial success or that its products or services will not appeal to enough customers, will not be available at competitive prices, will not function as expected or will not be delivered in a timely fashion. As a result of advances in technology or decreases in the cost of existing technologies, the Company’s competitors may in the future be able to provide products and services that are similar to products and services 40 Table of Contents now offered by the Company that those competitors currently cannot fully match. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings also may require the Company in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services the Company currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely affected by various timing factors, such as the ability of its competitors to develop new technologies more quickly. In addition, the uncertainty of the costs for obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties could impact the ability of the Company to respond to technological advances in a timely manner. The combination of increased competition, more technologically advanced platforms, products and services, the increasing number of choices available to consumers and the overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries requires companies such as Time Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt more quickly to market conditions than had been necessary in the past. The Company could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability. Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability. Piracy of motion pictures, television programming, video content and DVDs is prevalent in many parts of the world. Technological advances allowing the unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television programming and other content in unprotected digital formats increase the threat of piracy by making it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of such content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products can have an adverse effect on its businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that Time Warner potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its content. In addition, if piracy continues to increase, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and profitability. Although piracy adversely affects the Company’s U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from outside the United States is more significant, particularly in countries where laws protective of intellectual property rights are not strictly enforced. Time Warner has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy, both individually and together with cross-industry groups, trade associations and strategic partners. Policing the unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is often difficult, however, and the steps taken by the Company may not prevent the infringement by and/or piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful in reducing content piracy. The Company is, and may be in the future, subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require Time Warner to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company may require it to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could require the Company to expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or operating results. Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses and other agreements with its 41 Table of Contents employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and products and services used in its various operations. However, any of the Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which the Company operates, much of the business of its various segments relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and Time Warner may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible that, in connection with a merger or acquisition transaction, the Company may license its trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill to third parties or the business of various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction. Time Warner’s international operations are subject to increased risks that could adversely affect its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and language and cultural differences; • increased costs resulting from competition for workforce in certain locations; • stringent local labor laws and regulations; • longer payment cycles; • political or social unrest; • economic instability; • seasonal volatility in business activity; • risks related to government regulation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s future international operations and consequently, could harm its business and operating results. Weakening economic conditions or other factors could reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such revenues. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Because several of the Company’s segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical industries, represent a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by the Company are largely discretionary items, weakening 42 Table of Contents economic conditions or outlook could reduce the consumption of such products and services and reduce the Company’s revenues. The Company faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all of the Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of news, information and entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats and streaming capabilities and downloading via the Internet, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s competitive position and revenues. Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and information systems or other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, disasters, accidental releases of information, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s various businesses could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in the Company’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time Warner and its businesses. The Company also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses that handle a large amount of personal customer data. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS The Company’s AOL business faces significant competition. Historically, AOL’s primary product offering has been an online subscription service that includes a component of telephone “dial-up” Internet access. This product, offered under a variety of different terms and price plans, generates the substantial majority of AOL’s revenue. During the last several years, the online services industry has been changing from one in which the only way for a household to access the Internet was through telephone “dial-up” Internet access provided by Internet service providers to one in which households can access the Internet through a variety of connection methods, such as cable modems, DSL or wireless connections offered by a number of different providers, including Internet service providers, cable companies and telephone and other telecommunications companies. Additional methods of high-speed (also referred to as broadband) Internet access, such as wireless, mobile wireless, fiber optic cable and power lines, are continuing to be developed and offered. As a 43 Table of Contents result, significant price and service competition for Internet access exists and is expected to continue in the future. Unlike some of its competitors in the U.S., AOL does not own or control access to the “last mile” of connectivity to the consumer that would enable it to easily offer high-speed access to subscribers. Therefore, in order for AOL to provide high-speed access in the U.S., it generally must negotiate and secure access from the providers that control the last mile of infrastructure. In some cases, those companies provide products competitive to AOL. To date, while AOL has reached and implemented agreements with various high-speed access providers, significant price and service competition exists in the offer of high-speed Internet access services. AOL (together with the high-speed access providers) has had limited success in providing a competitive offering in the U.S., and there can be no assurance that AOL will be able to compete successfully in the future. The success of AOL’s Audience business depends on its ability to generate advertising revenue from increased activity by the audience of members of the AOL service and from increased numbers and activity of Internet users visiting AOL’s network of portals, including AOL.com, other websites (including certain affiliated or third-party websites), and certain related applications and services (the AOL service and such portals, websites, applications and services are together referred to as the “AOL Network”). In attracting and engaging this audience, AOL faces significant competition from the major interactive networks provided by Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft, other popular sites, including those provided by IAC/ InterActiveCorp and eBay, and sites focused in specific vertical markets or commerce areas, such as shopping, auctions and travel, many of which possess large user bases and may command greater brand association among consumers. In addition, AOL also competes for the time and activity of Internet users with the traditional media companies. AOL is competing for audience with these companies, as well as other companies, and, if these competitors are more successful than AOL in attracting and engaging their audiences, AOL’s advertising revenue could be adversely affected. Declines in subscribers to the AOL service are expected to continue, and are expected to continue to adversely affect AOL’s subscription and advertising revenue. AOL has experienced declines in the number of subscribers to the AOL service throughout 2003, 2004 and 2005, and expects to continue to experience declines in the number of these subscribers for the foreseeable future. Each year, a significant number of subscribers of the AOL service cancel their membership or are terminated by AOL either for non-payment of account charges or violation of one of the terms of service that apply to members (for example, sending spam e-mails or violating community guidelines in chat rooms). AOL is not registering new members in numbers sufficient to replace the subscribers who have canceled or have been terminated. Registrations have been declining for several reasons, including declining registrations in response to AOL’s marketing campaigns, competition from broadband access providers and reduced subscriber acquisition efforts. Continuing decreases in new registrations could adversely affect the rate of decline in the total number of subscribers. Furthermore, in connection with the announcements of the broadband agreements discussed below, AOL recently has announced price increases for certain AOL service plans. These increases are intended to encourage subscribers to migrate to broadband access, but could result in a further or faster decline in the number of subscribers or registrations to the AOL service, and these declines could adversely affect subscription and advertising revenue. AOL recently has entered into agreements with high-speed Internet access providers to offer the AOL service along with high-speed Internet access. It is too early to determine if such agreements will be successful attracting and retaining subscribers. These arrangements generate less revenue than arrangements with subscribers who purchase their narrowband Internet access directly from AOL. In addition, it is too early to determine whether subscribers who access the AOL service through a broadband connection will generate more or less activity on the AOL Network than subscribers who access the AOL service through a narrowband connection. As part of its strategy to attract and retain subscribers, AOL continues to enhance and upgrade the content and features provided through the AOL service, and AOL plans to continue to provide certain content, features and tools that will only be available to its subscribers. AOL also continues to 44 Table of Contents develop, test, change, market and implement price plans, service offerings and payment methods, as well as other strategies, to identify effective ways to attract and retain members. Declines in AOL’s subscribers, as well as the migration of existing subscribers to lower-priced AOL subscription plans, have resulted in decreased subscription revenue. The loss of subscribers also has had an adverse impact on advertising revenue at the AOL segment because subscribers generate significantly more usage than non-subscriber Internet visitors to the AOL Network. Accordingly, decreased usage due to decreases in subscribers reduces the amount of advertising inventory that AOL has available to sell to advertisers. If AOL is unable to attract and retain members, it will continue to have an adverse effect on AOL’s subscription and advertising revenue. If AOL is unsuccessful in increasing its advertising revenue, AOL’s results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. AOL will need to develop other sources of revenue, including advertising revenue, to offset lower revenue resulting from the decline in subscribers and the migration of existing subscribers to lower-priced plans. Advertising revenue will be an increasingly important source of revenue for AOL for the foreseeable future, but increases in advertising revenue to date have not been high enough to offset the losses in subscription revenue and are not expected to be sufficient to offset such losses for the foreseeable future. AOL’s ability to increase its advertising revenue will depend on a number of factors, including competition, the rate of decline in the number of subscribers to the AOL service, the ability to generate more activity on, and to attract more people to, the AOL Network, the growth of the online advertising business, the ability to secure and maintain agreements with third parties for advertising and for distribution of AOL products and services, accurate forecasting of consumer preferences, and the ability to anticipate and keep up with technological developments. AOL expects that maintaining and increasing the size and value of its U.S. and worldwide audience of subscribers and other Internet users accessing the AOL Network will have a significant impact on its ability to increase advertising revenue. AOL re-launched the AOL.com website as a free portal during the third quarter of 2005 as part of its efforts to increase the size and value of its audience. In connection with this re-launch, AOL moved much of its proprietary content and many of its features and tools to the Internet, allowing all Internet users, not just members of the AOL service, to access such content, features and tools without charge. It is too early to determine whether this strategy of increasing content, features and tools available on the web through a free portal will be successful in generating increased activity by AOL’s audience or in maintaining or increasing its audience size. Therefore, there can be no assurance that this strategy will lead to an increase in advertising revenue. In addition, this strategy could result in further declines in the number of subscribers and the cancellation of subscriptions at a faster rate than in the past. This could hinder AOL’s efforts to maintain and improve its subscription business and negatively impact both its subscription and advertising revenue. Factors relating to competition also may hamper AOL’s efforts to increase its advertising revenue. Although AOL has had some success in attracting an audience outside of its member base at Internet sites like MapQuest and Moviefone, AOL faces significant competition from third-party Internet sites, such as Yahoo!, in attracting Internet users to its portal. Also, although AOL’s advertising revenue improved in 2005, the increases were primarily due to AOL’s acquisition of Advertising.com, which provides performance-based and brand marketing services to online advertisers, and the paid-search relationship AOL has with Google, including an arrangement with AOL Europe. Increased competition for advertising inventory on third-party Internet sites could adversely impact Advertising.com’s continued growth. In addition, growth in paid-search revenue depends in part on Google’s ability to generate increased advertising revenue from search queries made by AOL’s audience. AOL’s ability to increase advertising revenue also depends in part on the continued increase in Internet advertising spending by advertisers and AOL’s ability to successfully compete for Internet advertising expenditures. The Company’s AOL business may not be able to increase its revenue from the sale of premium digital services. AOL’s strategy to increase revenue from sources other than the AOL service includes continuing to sell both new and existing premium digital services to members of the AOL service and Internet users. The development cycles for premium digital services may be long and could require significant capital investments 45 Table of Contents in addition to ongoing commitments of resources. AOL has discontinued certain non-profitable premium digital services in the past, and there can be no assurance that new premium digital services will be successful. Furthermore, revenue from premium digital services may be adversely affected by the reduction in prices for these services or by their incorporation into the AOL service offering rather than separate premium service offerings, which could result from pressure from competitors who may offer similar services over time at lower prices or at no additional charge as part of their standard offerings. For example, a McAfee Virus Scan Online product, which AOL previously sold separately to subscribers, is currently provided to subscribers to the AOL service at no additional charge. In addition, the development and introduction of premium digital services require AOL to operate outside of its core area of expertise and may subject it to new regulatory requirements. AOL’s ability to increase its revenue from the sale of premium digital services will depend on a number of factors, including the ability, at a reasonable cost, to acquire customers and to make Internet users aware that they can purchase AOL’s premium digital services without having a subscription to the AOL service. If AOL is unable to generate revenue from premium digital services that is greater than the cost of providing such services, its operating results will be adversely affected. If the Company’s AOL business is unable to acquire or offer compelling search functionality, content, features, services, applications and tools at reasonable costs, the size or value of its audience may not increase as anticipated, which could adversely affect its subscription and advertising revenue. AOL believes that it must offer compelling and differentiated search functionality, content, features, services, applications and tools to attract and retain subscribers and to attract Internet users to, and generate increased activity on, the AOL Network. AOL also anticipates that subscribers and Internet users may demand an escalating quality of offerings. If AOL is unable to provide offerings that are compelling to subscribers and Internet users, the size and value of AOL’s audience may be adversely affected. With respect to search functionality, AOL has an existing relationship with Google, whereby Google provides its industry-leading algorithmic search. AOL has committed that AOL’s use of algorithmic search will be on an exclusive basis. Although AOL retains the ability to differentiate its search product from Google and other providers, competing search technologies may grow in popularity, and this exclusivity in certain circumstances may limit AOL’s flexibility to change providers of its algorithmic search in the future. With respect to content, although AOL has access to certain content provided by the Company’s other businesses, it also may be required to make substantial payments to third parties from whom it licenses such content, and costs for such content may continue to increase as a result of competition or for other reasons. Further, many of AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. If AOL is unable to acquire or develop compelling content at reasonable prices or if other companies broadcast content that is similar to or the same as that provided by AOL, the size and value of AOL’s audience may be adversely affected. If the size and value of AOL’s audience does not grow significantly, AOL’s subscription and advertising revenue could be adversely affected. More individuals are using non-PC devices to access the Internet, and AOL must be able to secure placement of its services, applications and features on such devices, must ensure that they are compatible with the devices and must ensure that the AOL Network is accessible by users of non-PC devices. The number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital assistants, mobile telephones and television set-top devices, has increased significantly. AOL must be able to secure arrangements with the device manufacturers as well as the access providers or wireless carriers, as the case may be, in order to ensure placement of its services, applications and features on the non-PC devices. In addition, AOL must ensure that its services, applications and features are technologically compatible in order for them to be placed on such non-PC devices. Also, the websites, applications and services included in the AOL Network must be designed so that they are technologically compatible with the non-PC devices in order that users of these devices can access the AOL Network and engage in activity. If AOL is unable to place its services, applications and features on non-PC devices, or if AOL is unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device users to use the AOL Network, it could have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising, subscription or other revenue. The AOL segment may not be able to continue to reduce costs. AOL intends to continue to identify and implement cost reductions. While network service costs were cut substantially in 2004 and 2005, AOL expects 46 Table of Contents that domestic network expenses will continue to decline in 2006 but at a rate lower than in 2005. However, this decline is expected to be more than offset by increased network expenses at AOL Europe due to the continued migration of AOL Europe dial-up subscribers to bundled broadband plans for which network expenses per subscriber are significantly higher. In addition to network costs, AOL continues to evaluate opportunities to reduce other costs, including but not limited to, customer service costs, personnel costs and other technology-related costs. If AOL cannot continue to identify and implement cost reductions, its operating results could be adversely affected. Changes in international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations, or interpretations of international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations, could adversely affect AOL’s operating results. International, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting AOL’s business, or interpretations or application of these tax laws and regulations, could change. In addition, new international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting AOL’s business could be enacted. In December 2004, the U.S. federal government enacted the Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act (or the ITNA), extending the moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access or discriminatory taxes on the Internet through November 2007. If the ITNA is not extended or permanently enacted, state and local jurisdictions may seek to impose taxes on Internet access or electronic commerce within their jurisdictions. These taxes could adversely affect AOL’s operating results. The Streamlined Sales Tax Project is an effort by state governments, with input from local governments and the private sector, to establish a simplified and uniform sales tax system by creating uniform definitions for taxable goods and requiring participating states and local governments to have one statewide tax rate for each type of product. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project, the U.S. Congress continues to consider overriding a Supreme Court decision that limits the ability of state governments to require sellers outside of their own state to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. If the U.S. Congress were to enact such legislation, it could have a negative impact on AOL’s users and its business. In addition, under a directive adopted by the European Union in July 2003, certain services are subject to a Value Added Tax, or VAT, which is levied based on the country from which the service is provided rather than the place of consumption. If the EU votes in the future to change its approach from the current “place of supply” to a “place of consumption” approach, AOL’s operating results could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S CABLE BUSINESS If the proposed Adelphia acquisition and/or related transactions with Comcast close, TWC Inc. will face certain challenges regarding the integration of the newly acquired systems into its existing managed systems. The successful integration of these acquired systems will depend primarily on TWC Inc.’s ability to manage the combined operations and integrate into its operations the acquired systems (including management information, marketing, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, customer support and product distribution infrastructure, personnel, payroll and benefits, regulatory compliance and technology systems), as well as the related control processes. The integration of these systems, including the anticipated upgrade of certain portions of the systems to be acquired from Adelphia, will require significant capital expenditures and may require TWC Inc. to use financial resources it would otherwise devote to other business initiatives, including marketing, customer care, the development of new products and services and the expansion of its existing cable systems. Furthermore, these integration efforts will require substantial attention from TWC Inc.’s management and may impose significant strains on its technical resources. In addition, when appropriate, TWC Inc. intends to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions of additional cable systems as part of its growth strategy. Time Warner cannot predict whether TWC Inc. will be successful in buying additional cable systems. If TWC Inc. were to acquire a significant number of additional cable systems prior to completing the integration of the systems proposed to be acquired from Adelphia and Comcast, the integration of the systems proposed to be acquired from Adelphia and Comcast, as well as such additional systems, could be further complicated. If TWC Inc. fails to integrate successfully systems acquired from Adelphia, Comcast or others, fails to manage its growth as a result of these acquisitions or encounters unexpected difficulties during that growth, it could have a negative impact on the performance of TWC Inc.’s 47 Table of Contents systems (including the systems to be acquired in the Adelphia and Comcast transactions), as well as on the operations, business or financial results of Time Warner. TWC Inc. also faces certain integration challenges in connection with the internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures that have been implemented with respect to the systems to be acquired from Adelphia. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires public companies, among other things, to implement and maintain policies and procedures pertaining to the maintenance of records that reflect the company’s transactions and disposition of assets in order to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles such that, among other things, (1) transactions are accurately and fairly recorded to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and receipts and expenditures are made only when properly authorized and (2) unauthorized transactions involving the acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial statements are prevented or detected in a timely manner. Adelphia has disclosed in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 (filed with the SEC on October 6, 2005) that it has identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004 and that, as of such date, Adelphia did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. While Adelphia has agreed to use reasonable efforts to implement effective internal control over financial reporting prior to the consummation of the proposed transactions, such policies and procedures may not be in place when TWC Inc. acquires such systems in the proposed transactions. As a result, TWC Inc. may be required to devote significant time and resources to implementing such controls, which will further complicate the integration of the Adelphia systems with its existing managed systems, and TWC Inc. cannot ensure that it will be able to put such controls in place in a timely fashion. If the proposed Adelphia acquisition and/or related transactions with Comcast close, TWC Inc. may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions. The proposed Adelphia acquisition and related transactions with Comcast will combine cable systems of three companies that have previously operated separately. Time Warner expects that TWC Inc. will realize cost savings and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the proposed transactions. However, due to the complexity of and risks relating to the integration of these systems, among other factors, Time Warner cannot predict with certainty when these cost savings and benefits will occur or the extent to which they actually will be achieved, if at all. In introducing voice services over its cable systems, TWC Inc. faces risks inherent to entering into a new line of business. TWC Inc. completed a launch of its Digital Phone service during 2004. During 2005, it added 880,000 Digital Phone subscribers, ending the year with 1.1 million subscribers. Managing the growth of a product with which it has only limited operating experience may present significant challenges, and TWC Inc. may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it introduces the product in new operating areas or increases the scale of its offering in areas in which it has launched. First, TWC Inc. faces heightened customer expectations for the reliability of voice services as compared with its video and high-speed data services. TWC Inc. has undertaken significant training of customer service representatives and technicians, and it will need to continue to have a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, TWC Inc. may need to increase its expenditures, including on technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not sufficiently reliable or TWC Inc. otherwise fails to meet customer expectations, the Digital Phone business could be adversely affected. Second, the competitive landscape for voice services is intense, with TWC Inc. facing competition from providers of Internet phone services, as well as incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers and others. See “TWC Inc. faces a wide range of competition, which could affect the future results of operations of TWC Inc.” Third, the Digital Phone service depends on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties. As a result, TWC Inc.’s ability to implement changes as the service grows may be limited. In addition, in January 2006, MCI, Inc., one of TWC Inc.’s two interconnect and provisioning partners in the Digital Phone business, merged with Verizon Communications Inc., a regional phone company that competes with TWC Inc.’s offerings in some areas. It is currently not known whether, or to what extent, the merger will have any negative impact on the Digital Phone products and operations. Finally, the Company expects advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, the Company is unable to predict the effect that 48 Table of Contents ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on the Cable segment’s voice business and operations. In addition, TWC Inc.’s launch of voice services in the cable systems expected to be acquired in the Adelphia and Comcast transactions may pose certain risks. TWC Inc. may not be able to provide its Digital Phone service in some of the acquired systems without first upgrading the facilities. In such cases, TWC Inc. will be required to upgrade, or otherwise prepare, the facilities prior to launching any Digital Phone services. Additionally, TWC Inc. may need to obtain certain services from third parties prior to deploying Digital Phone services in the acquired cable systems. If TWC Inc. encounters difficulties in launching voice services in these acquired systems, its operations, business or financial results may be adversely affected. Increases in programming costs could adversely affect TWC Inc.’s operations, business or financial results. Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, one of TWC Inc.’s largest operating expense items. In recent years, TWC Inc. has experienced sharp increases in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. The increases are expected to continue due to a variety of factors, including inflationary and negotiated annual increases, additional programming being provided to subscribers, and increased costs to purchase new programming. Programming cost increases that TWC Inc. is unable to pass on fully to its subscribers have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on cash flow and operating margins. Current and future programming providers that provide content that is desirable to TWC Inc. subscribers may enter into exclusive affiliation agreements with TWC Inc.’s cable and non-cable competitors and may be unwilling to enter into affiliation agreements with TWC Inc. on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase TWC Inc.’s programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission. TWC Inc. currently has multi-year agreements with most of the retransmission-consent stations that it carries. In other cases, TWC Inc. carries stations under short-term arrangements while it attempts to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require TWC Inc. to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make TWC Inc.’s video service less attractive to subscribers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services may increase TWC Inc.’s programming expenses and diminish the amount of spectrum it has available to introduce new services, which may reduce its future revenue. TWC Inc. faces a wide range of competition, which could affect the future results of operations of TWC Inc. The industry in which TWC Inc. operates is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. TWC Inc. faces intense competition with respect to its video services, particularly from direct-to-home satellite providers, with respect to its high-speed data services, particularly from incumbent local telephone companies and other providers of DSL service and, with respect to its Digital Phone service, particularly from incumbent local telephone companies and Internet phone providers. The multi-channel video service business is relatively mature, and TWC Inc. competes with a number of types of businesses that provide video services. Because of the broad footprint of satellite providers, TWC Inc. competes with satellite providers for video subscribers in almost all of the geographic areas served by its cable systems. Technological advancements may, in the future, allow satellite providers to offer certain products and services that are similar to or better than advanced products and services currently available on cable systems, such as video-on-demand. In the future, TWC Inc.’s traditional video services may also compete with video services delivered over broadband internet connections. TWC Inc. also may face significant competition from one or more other providers of paid television services, such as satellite-master antenna television. From time to time, TWC Inc. also faces competition from other cable operators that provide service in some TWC Inc. franchise areas under non-exclusive franchise agreements. In addition, local telephone companies are seeking 49 Table of Contents to compete in the subscription television business, either through co-marketing arrangements with satellite operators or directly, and they may increase their efforts to do so in the future. In particular, a number of incumbent local telephone companies are in the process of fiber upgrades to their networks that enable the delivery of video services direct to consumer residences, and a number of these companies have begun offering video services. TWC Inc.’s video service business also faces competition from broadcast companies distributing television broadcast signals without a subscription fee and from other communications and entertainment media, including conventional radio broadcasting services, newspapers, movie theaters, the Internet, live sports events and home video products. TWC Inc.’s high-speed data (or HSD) service faces competition from DSL providers, Wi-Fi broadband providers, Internet over power line providers, as well as from providers of traditional dial-up Internet access. Some Internet service providers carried by TWC Inc. also may be available from DSL providers operating in TWC Inc.’s service area, which may enhance DSL’s ability to compete with TWC Inc.’s offerings. For example, AOL, whose online services are available in conjunction with TWC Inc.’s high-speed data service, recently announced that it had entered into new arrangements with several DSL providers that compete with TWC Inc. for high-speed data customers. A number of incumbent local telephone companies are in the process of fiber upgrades to their networks that enable the delivery of high speed data services in a manner that may provide greater speed and reliability than these companies’ existing DSL offerings. TWC Inc. also faces HSD service competition from other cable operators who provide service in TWC Inc. operating areas, satellite providers, terrestrial wireless providers and power companies, all of which currently, or may in the future, offer HSD service. Some municipalities also have announced their intentions to create wireless broadband networks that could compete with TWC Inc.’s high-speed data service. In addition, satellite providers have entered into marketing arrangements with incumbent local telephone companies or other providers of DSL and voice services to provide packaged digital video, HSD and voice services to compete with TWC Inc.’s bundled service offerings. TWC Inc.’s Digital Phone service faces intense competition for voice customers from incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, Internet phone providers and others. The incumbent local telephone companies have substantial capital and other resources, as well as longstanding customer relationships. Some of these competitors also offer HSD services and have entered into co-marketing arrangements with direct-to-home satellite service providers to offer video services, and some are in the process of fiber upgrades to their networks that enable the direct delivery of video services, together with their telephone and DSL offerings. Such bundled offerings by telephone companies may compete with TWC Inc.’s offerings and could adversely impact TWC Inc. In addition, in January 2006, MCI, one of TWC Inc.’s two interconnect and provisioning partners in the Digital Phone business, merged with Verizon, a regional phone company that competes with TWC Inc. in some areas. It is currently not known whether, or to what extent, the proposed acquisition will have any negative impact on TWC Inc.’s Digital Phone, or other, business and operations. In addition, future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment may result in changes to the competitive landscape. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, voice or HSD services could have an adverse effect on the Cable segment’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per-subscriber revenue. In addition, any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition may slow or cause a decline in TWC Inc.’s growth rates, reduce the number of TWC Inc. subscribers or reduce TWC Inc.’s ability to increase its penetration rates for services. As TWC Inc. expands and introduces new and enhanced products and services, TWC Inc. may be subject to competition from other providers of those products and services, such as telecommunications providers, ISPs and consumer electronics companies, among others. The Company cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect the Cable segment’s future financial results or return on capital expenditures. See “Business — Cable — Competition.” TWC Inc.’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC Inc.’s video and Digital Phone services are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, 50 Table of Contents and local governmental agencies. In addition, the federal government also has begun to explore possible regulation of high speed data services. TWC Inc. expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, voice, and data services under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and other laws, possibly in ways that it has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC Inc.’s business operations in areas such as: • Cable Franchising. Different legislative proposals have been made at the federal level and in a number of states (and enacted in Texas) that would streamline cable franchising to facilitate entry by new competitors, particularly local telephone companies. To the extent that such legislation enables competitors to compete more easily and possibly on more favorable terms for video and other customers, TWC Inc.’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. • Net Neutrality. Although the broadband Internet services industry has largely remained unregulated, there has been legislative and regulatory interest in adopting so-called “net neutrality” principles that could, among other things, prohibit service providers from slowing or blocking access to certain content, applications, or services available on the Internet and otherwise limit their ability to manage their networks efficiently and develop new products and services. The FCC last year adopted a non-binding policy statement expressing its view that consumers are entitled to access lawful Internet content and to run applications and use services of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement. If some form of net neutrality legislation or regulations were adopted, it could impair TWC Inc.’s ability to effectively manage its broadband network and explore enhanced service options for customers. • À La Carte. There has been legislative interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an à la carte basis. It is also possible that the FCC could in the future seek to adopt rules regulating programming bundles that could materially and adversely affect TWC Inc.’s operations. • Carriage Regulations. Cable operators face significant regulation of their channel carriage, including local broadcast signals; public, educational and government access programming; and unaffiliated commercial leased access programming. Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations — such as the requirement to carry both the analog and digital versions of local broadcast signals (dual carriage) or to carry multiple program streams within a single digital broadcast transmission (multicast carriage) — could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with TWC Inc.’s preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit its ability to offer services that would maximize customer appeal and revenue potential. • Voice Communications. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant regulations. If such regulations are applied to cable operators offering voice services, their compliance with such regulations may be difficult or costly. For example, regulators could allow utility pole owners to charge cable operators offering voice services higher rates for pole rental than are allowed for cable and high-speed data services. Although the FCC has declared that certain Voice over Internet Protocol (or VoIP) services are not subject to certification or tariffing requirements by state public utility commissions, the full extent of this preemption is unclear. The FCC subsequently has determined that VoIP providers must comply with traditional 911 emergency service obligations and imposed a specific timeframe for VoIP providers to accommodate law enforcement wiretaps. To the extent that additional regulatory burdens are imposed on VoIP providers or services, TWC Inc.’s operations could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and standards to remain competitive and continue to increase their revenue. Technology 51 Table of Contents in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment industry is changing rapidly, and advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, new video formats and distribution via the Internet, have led to alternative methods of product delivery and storage. Certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, devices that allow users to view television programs or motion pictures from a remote location may cause changes in consumer behavior that could negatively affect the subscription revenue of cable and DTH satellite operators and therefore have a corresponding negative effect on the subscription revenue generated by the Networks segment and the licensing revenue generated by the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Devices that enable users to view television programs or motion pictures on a time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip advertisements may cause changes in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the advertising revenue of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable channels. In addition, further increased use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choice, at a time of their choice, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect such advertising and licensing revenue. Technological developments also pose other challenges for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are developed. In addition, technological developments could enable third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home Box Office, and deal directly with cable and DTH satellite operators or other businesses that develop to offer content to viewers. Such limitations on the ability of the segments to distribute their content could have an adverse impact on their revenue. Cable system and DTH satellite operators are developing new techniques that enable them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially furthering the development of more specialized niche audiences. A greater number of options increases competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may improve their competitive position compared to the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments for television advertising and for subscription and licensing revenue. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to continue to grow and increase their revenue. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in highly competitive industries. The Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses generate revenue through the production and distribution of feature films, television programming and home video products, licensing fees, the sale of advertising and subscriber fees paid by affiliates. Competition faced by the businesses within these segments is intense and comes from many different sources. For example: • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other television programming services for marketing and distribution by cable and other distribution systems. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for viewers’ attention and audience share with other forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, pay and basic cable television services, motion pictures, home video, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. • The Networks segment faces competition for programming with commercial television networks, independent stations, and pay and basic cable television services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion picture studios and independent motion picture distributors. • The production divisions in the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other producers and distributors of television programming for air time on broadcast networks, independent commercial television stations, and cable television and DTH satellite networks. 52 Table of Contents • The production divisions in the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other production companies for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of literary properties. • The advertising-supported networks and Turner’s Internet sites in the Networks segment compete for advertising with numerous direct competitors and other media. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete in their character merchandising and other licensing activities with other licensors of character, brand and celebrity names. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for viewers’ attention with other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including video games, the Internet and other computer-related activities. The ability of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to provide high-quality and popular entertainment product and their ability to achieve high distribution levels. There has been consolidation in the media industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry participants with interests in other multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated. Vertical integration of other television networks and television and film production companies could adversely impact the Networks segment if it hinders the ability of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks. In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase their programming from production companies with which they are affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing revenue. Furthermore, as described above, there is increased competition in the television industry evidenced by the increasing number and variety of broadcast networks and basic cable and pay television programming services now available. Although this increase could result in greater licensing revenue for the Filmed Entertainment segment, it also could result in higher licensing costs for the Networks segment. There can be no assurance that the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have an adverse effect on their businesses or results of operations. The popularity of the Company’s television programs and films and other factors is difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Television program and film production and distribution are inherently risky businesses largely because the revenue derived from the production and distribution of a television program or motion picture, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with a program or film, depends primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television program or feature film also depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and films released at or near the same time, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are also factors that are weighed when determining their advertising rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. Further, the theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay television programming services, and sales of licensed consumer products. Therefore, low public acceptance of the television programs or feature films of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may adversely affect their respective results of operations. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject to potential labor interruption. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, trade employees and others involved in the production of motion pictures and television programs who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If expiring collective bargaining agreements are not renewed, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions could cause delays in the production or the release date of the segments’ television programs or feature films as well as higher costs resulting either from such action or less favorable terms of these agreements on renewal. 53 Table of Contents Although piracy poses risks to several of Time Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the prevalence of piracy of feature films and television programming. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability.” RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS Box office receipts and the growth rate of DVD sales have recently been declining, which may adversely affect the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors, including increasing competition for consumer discretionary spending, piracy, the maturation of the DVD format, increased competition for retailer shelf space and the fragmentation of consumer leisure time, may be contributing to a recent industry-wide decline in box office receipts and in a reduced growth rate of DVD sales. DVD sales also may be affected by consumer anticipation of the release of next-generation, high-definition, optical disc formats. The potential format war between such next-generation formats may slow consumer adoption of those formats once they launch and may likewise result in increased competition for retailer shelf space. In addition, there can be no assurance that home video wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels due to aggressive retail pricing or other factors. A continuing decline in attendance by moviegoers and in DVD sales growth could have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations and growth prospects. The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes the release of a limited number of “event” films each year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s results of operations and financial condition. The Filmed Entertainment segment expects to theatrically release a limited number of feature films each year that are expected to be “event” or “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher production and marketing costs than the other films released during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box office success and international box office success, as well as a correlation between box office success and success in the subsequent distribution channels of home video and television. If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office success, the results of operations and financial condition of the Filmed Entertainment segment could be adversely affected. Further, there can be no assurance that these historical correlations will continue in the future. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The production and marketing of feature films require substantial capital, and the costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. As production and marketing costs increase, it creates a greater need to generate revenue internationally or from other media, such as home video, television and new media. Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the amortization of film production costs. The Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenue from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment. A decrease in demand for television product could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for Warner Bros.’ 54 Table of Contents television product, it could lead to the launch of fewer new television series and the reduction of license fees in the near term and a reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a decrease, including station group consolidation and vertical integration between station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical integration between television production studios and broadcast networks, which can increase reliance by networks on their in-house or affiliated studios. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and further consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors could adversely affect the segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliation agreements with cable system and DTH satellite operators for the distribution of its networks, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of any one of these arrangements representing a significant number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenue. The loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor of the segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenue. In addition, further consolidation among cable system and DTH satellite operators has provided greater negotiating power to such distributors, and increased vertical integration of such distributors could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its networks on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to popular programming or create popular original programming could adversely affect the segment’s revenue. The Networks segment obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed programming, including sports programming, is made available based on programming rights of varying durations that it has negotiated with third parties. Home Box Office also enters into commitments to acquire rights to feature films and other programming for its HBO and Cinemax pay television programming services from feature film producers and other suppliers for varying durations. Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, could create their own networks. The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability to develop strong brand awareness and to target key areas of the television viewing audience, including both newer demographics and preferences for particular genres, as well as its ability to continue to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Networks segment derives a portion of its revenue from the exploitation of the Company’s library of feature films, animated titles and television titles. If the content of the Company’s programming libraries ceases to be of interest to audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular original content, the revenue of the Networks segment could be adversely affected. Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the Networks segment. As described above, the Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. For example, the Turner networks license the rights to broadcast significant sports events such as NBA play-offs and a series of NASCAR races. In addition, Home Box Office relies on film studios for a significant portion of its content. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds the amount of quality content available, the networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased costs with 55 Table of Contents higher advertising and/or subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be adversely affected. The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs costs for new show concepts and all types of creative talent, including actors, writers and producers. The segment incurs additional significant costs, such as newsgathering and marketing costs. Unless they are offset by increased revenue, increases in the costs of creative talent or in production, newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to decreased profits at the Networks segments. The continued decline in the growth rate of U.S. basic cable and DTH satellite households, together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely affect the future revenue growth of the Networks segment. The U.S. video services business generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact on the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance to wholesale programming price increases, and programming distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other than video, such as high-speed data access and voice services. Also, consumers’ basic cable rates have continued to increase, which could cause consumers to cancel their cable or satellite service subscriptions. The inability of the Networks segment to implement measures to maintain future revenue growth may adversely affect its business. Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of the Networks segment. The multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States, as well as broadcast networks, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. For example, federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown on cable, satellite and broadcast network channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In November 2004, the FCC issued rules that would, as of January 1, 2006, classify promotions aired during children’s programming on a channel for other programs also aired on that channel as commercial material unless the programs being promoted are educational or informational, as defined under FCC rules. If not clarified, these rules could have an adverse impact on Turner’s children-oriented programming, including children’s programs on the Cartoon Network, because they would require a reduction of promotional or advertising time during such programming. The rules also would: (1) limit the display during children’s cable programming of the Internet addresses of websites that primarily contain or link to commercial material, including the websites for the segment’s cable channels, and (2) prohibit during children’s programming the display of Internet addresses of websites that contain host selling, as defined under FCC rules. These rules, if not clarified, could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenue from its websites for children. Time Warner and several other companies have proposed to the FCC a clarified set of rules relating to these issues, based on an agreement with a coalition of advocacy groups about the appropriate scope of the rules. This agreement would: (1) count promotions for children’s and other age-appropriate programming on the same channel, and educational and information programming on any channel, as non-commercial time; (2) retain the limit on the display of website addresses in children’s programming for non-compliant websites; and (3) limit the applicability of the host selling rule to pages mixing program-related editorial content and ads or products featuring that program or its characters, if the website address is referenced during or adjacent to that program. Jointly, all parties have asked the FCC to reconsider both rules and have been granted a stay of the effective date of the rules while the FCC considers whether to amend them as proposed by the parties. In addition, the U.S. Congress and the FCC currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of the Networks segment. For example, the FCC has been examining whether cable operators should offer “à la carte” programming to subscribers on a network-by-network basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers. A number of cable operators, including TWC Inc., have voluntarily agreed to offer family tiers 56 Table of Contents in light of this interest. The unbundling or tiering of program services may reduce distribution of certain cable networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and may affect the segment’s ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. Any decline in subscribers could lead to a decrease in the segment’s advertising and subscription revenues. There also has been consideration of the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter enforcement of existing laws and rules. If such an extension or attempt to increase enforcement occurred and were upheld, the content of the Networks segment could be subject to additional regulation, which could affect subscriber and viewership levels. Moreover, the determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content would violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and results of operations of the Networks segment. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS The Publishing segment’s operating income could decrease as a result of increases in paper costs and postal rates. The Publishing segment’s principal raw material is paper, and paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. Accordingly, significant unanticipated increases in paper prices could adversely affect the segment’s operating income. Postage for magazine distribution and direct solicitation is another significant operating expense of the Publishing segment, which primarily uses the U.S. Postal Service to distribute its products. The U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate increase of 5.4% effective January 8, 2006. If there are further significant increases in paper costs and/or postal rates and the Publishing segment is not able to offset these increases, they could have a negative impact on the segment’s operating income. The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from print to other media could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s results of operations. The Publishing segment derives a substantial portion of its revenue from advertising in magazines. Distribution of news, entertainment and other information via the Internet has become increasingly popular over the past several years, and viewing news, entertainment and other content on a personal computer, cellular phone or other device has become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift from traditional print media to online media. The Publishing segment has taken various steps to diversify its advertising vehicles, including relaunching certain websites and expanding its existing online content. However, the Publishing segment’s strategies for achieving sustained revenue growth may not be sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued shift in advertising dollars over the long term from print to other media. The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various regulatory and legislative matters, including changes in Audit Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in regulation of direct marketing. The Publishing segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy), the FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and the FTC Telemarketing Sales Rule. Other statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data security and telemarketing. New statutes and regulations are adopted frequently. In addition, the Audit Bureau of Circulations recently implemented changes in its rules that changed the classification of certain magazine subscriptions. The Company is currently unable to assess the effect such changes may have on the Publishing segment, but it is possible that they may have a negative impact on spending by the segment’s advertisers. New rules, as well as new interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in the segment’s marketing methods which could have a negative effect on the segment’s ability to generate new magazine subscriptions, meet rate bases and support advertising sales. 57 Table of Contents The Publishing segment faces significant competition for advertising and circulation. The Publishing segment faces significant competition from several direct competitors and other media, including the Internet. The Publishing segment’s magazine operations compete for circulation and audience with numerous other magazine publishers and other media. The Publishing segment’s magazine operations also compete with other magazine publishers and other media for advertising directed at the general public and at more focused demographic groups. Time Inc.’s direct marketing operations compete with other direct marketers through all media for the consumer’s attention. Competition for advertising revenue is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and amount of readership, reader response to advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in magazine publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, circulation, price and customer service, which impact readership audience, circulation revenue and, ultimately, advertising revenue. The magazine publishing business presents few barriers to entry and many new magazines are launched annually across multiple sectors. In recent years competitors launched and/or repositioned many magazines, primarily in the celebrity and women’s service sectors, that compete directly with People, In Style, Real Simple and other Publishing segment magazines, particularly at newsstand checkouts in mass-market retailers. The Company anticipates that it will face continuing competition from these new competitors and additional competitors may enter this field and further intensify competition, which could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenue. The Publishing segment has in recent years made various changes in its circulation practices and consequently faces new challenges in identifying new subscribers and increasing circulation, which could have an adverse impact not only on its circulation revenue but also on its advertising revenue. The Publishing segment could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the newsstand distribution channel. The Publishing segment operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute magazines published by the Publishing segment and other publishers to newsstands and other retail outlets. Due to industry consolidation, four wholesalers represent more than 80% of the wholesale magazine distribution business. There is a possibility of further consolidation among these wholesalers and/or insolvency of one or more of these wholesalers. Should there be a disruption in this wholesale channel it could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income and cash flow, including temporarily impeding the Publishing segment’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 