D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industries The limited operating history of the Everest Gaming business and our Asian online game and service business may not provide you with an adequate basis upon which to evaluate our business and prospects We commenced our gaming software and service business operations in April 2004 and our Asian online game and service business in January 2006. We sold 60 percent interest in our gaming software business to BetClic, a leading European sports betting and online gaming group, on April 8, 2010. The strategic alliance with BetClic was structured as a stock and asset sale to a newly-formed French entity, Everest Gaming, in which we hold a 40 percent stake. Everest Gaming’s operating history as an online gambling operator and our operating history as an online games operator may be too short to give you a sufficient basis for evaluating our business and financial performance. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies entering new and rapidly evolving markets such as the online gaming and online games market. These risks include our potential failure to: • respond to technological changes or resolve unexpected service interruptions in a timely manner; • adapt to regulatory changes; • retain existing customers or attract new customers; • license, develop, or acquire additional online games that are appealing to consumers; • anticipate and adapt to changing consumer preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platforms; and • maintain adequate control of our expenses. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may not be able to achieve similar results or growth in future periods. Accordingly, you should not rely on our results of operations for any prior periods as an indication of our future performance. In operating our Asian online game and service business, we may fail to launch new games according to our timetable, and our new games may not be commercially successful In order for our Asian online game and service business strategy to succeed over time, we will need to license, acquire or develop new online games that can generate additional revenue and further diversify our revenue sources. A number of factors, including technical difficulties, government approvals and game licenses required for launching new games, lack of sufficient game development personnel and other resources, and adverse developments in our relationship with the licensors of our new licensed games could result in delay in launching our new games. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our timetable for new game launches. In January 2009, we introduced Holic Online, an adventure-themed massively multi-player online role playing game (“MMORPG”), in Taiwan. Holic Online was not commercially successful in Taiwan. As a result, we terminated the Holic Online exclusive game license agreement in December 2010 and completely ceased the operation in March 2011. On June 25, 2009, we launched Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning, a war-themed MMORPG, in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau. On July 7, 2009, we launched Luna Online, a casual fantasy-themed MMORPG in the PRC. Warhammer Online: Age of Reckoning and Luna Online were not commercially successful in the territories in which they were launched. As a result, we terminated the license agreements for these two games in April 2010 and June 2010, respectively. In addition, we have three MMORPGs and two advanced casual games non-role playing massively multiplayer online games (“non-RPG MMOs”) in the pipeline, which we expect to launch in various target markets in Greater China. There are many factors that may adversely affect the popularity of our new games. For example, we may fail to anticipate and adapt to future technical trends and new business models, fail to satisfy game player preferences and requirements, fail to effectively plan and organize marketing and promotion activities, fail to effectively detect and prevent programming errors or defects in the games, and fail to operate our new games at acceptable costs. We cannot assure you that our new games will gain market acceptance and become commercially successful. If we are not able to license, develop or acquire additional online games that are commercially successful, our future revenues and profitability may decline. Due to increased competition among online games operators in the PRC, Taiwan and Southeast Asia, license fees for online games have increased and most licensors are demanding upfront license fees and guaranteed minimum royalty payments. If any of the new games we license from third parties fails to appeal to players, we may not be able to fully recover upfront and/or minimum royalty licensing costs, which can be significant. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain a stable relationship with Blizzard, and we may experience difficulties in the operation of the online games licensed from Blizzard Monsoon, a wholly owned subsidiary of IAHGames in which we are a controlling shareholder, entered into various agreements with Blizzard Entertainment International, a division of Coöperatie Activision Blizzard International U.A. (“Blizzard”) to distribute selected Blizzard Entertainment® games in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines. The license and distribution agreements include bestselling games from Blizzard’s Diablo® action-role-playing-game series, Warcraft® and StarCraft® real-time strategy-game series, including StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty™, and World of Warcraft® and its three expansion sets, The Burning Crusade®, Wrath of the Lich King® and Cataclysm™. We have guaranteed to Blizzard the due and punctual observance by each of Monsoon and IAHGames of all of its respective financial obligations under various license and distribution agreements and services agreements and agreed to pay to Blizzard from time to time on demand by Blizzard all sums of money which either Monsoon and/or IAHGames is liable to pay to Blizzard under those agreements. Blizzard has the right to terminate those license and distribution agreements or services agreements under certain circumstances. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Asian Online Game and Service Business — Our Operating Entities — IAHGames.” We have limited experience working with Blizzard. If we are unable to maintain a stable relationship with Blizzard, or if Blizzard either establishes similar or more favorable relationships with our competitors in violation of its contractual arrangements with us or otherwise, we may not be able to ensure smooth operation of these licensed online games, and Blizzard could terminate the license and distribution agreements and services agreements with us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, the benefits of our arrangements with Blizzard may take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that such arrangements will produce its intended benefits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to leverage our past experience and successfully manage our expansion into Southeast Asia markets. In addition, we cannot be certain that these licensed online games will be viewed by the applicable regulatory authorities as complying with content restrictions, will be launched or distributed as scheduled, or at all, will be attractive to game players or will be able to compete with games operated by our competitors. We may not be able to fully recover the costs associated with licensing these licensed games if these games are not popular among game players, and any difficulties in the operation or distribution of these licensed games could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to our ongoing dispute with the former chief executive officer of T2CN, we have lost effective control over the T2CN Operating Entities and we may not be able to regain effective control over the T2CN Operating Entities or T2CN’s assets Due to our dispute with Wang Ji, the former head of our Asian online game and service business in the PRC and former chief executive officer of T2CN, that arose in July 2010, we have lost effective control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process since July 1, 2010. We believe that Wang Ji currently has in his possession, among other things, the company seals, financial chops and business registration certificates of the T2CN Operating Entities. We also believe that Wang Ji has in his possession all documents, records and data and tangible property, including license agreements, trademark and domain name documentation, held in the offices of the T2CN Operating Entities. The company seals, financial chops and business registration certificates of the T2CN Operating Entities are necessary for the respective entities to, among other things, declare dividends and approve service fee payments to us. These documents are necessary for us to run our Asian online game and service business in the PRC. Under PRC law, the company seals, financial chops and business registration certificates are essential for entering into contracts, conducting banking business, or taking official corporate action of any sort including registering any change to the composition of the board or management with the relevant PRC authorities. Consequently, we have not been able to register the resolutions removing Wang Ji from his position as a director of T2 Technology and J-Town and as the legal representative, executive director and manager of T2 Entertainment. As a result, Wang Ji has effectively usurped control over T2 Technology, J-Town and T2 Entertainment’s operations and accounts. We have been seeking to regain effective control over T2CN and its assets by a range of means, including pursuing legal remedies in the courts of the PRC, Hong Kong, Singapore and the British Virgin Islands. While we continue to pursue these actions, we have to date not been successful in regaining to control of T2CN or recovering its assets. We deconsolidated T2CN’s financial results with effect from July 1, 2010 and wrote off our investment and advances to the entities held or controlled by T2CN (amounting to US$23.6 million, including the recorded investment of $22.2 million and advances of approximately $1.4 million) in the fourth quarter of 2010. While we will continue pursue legal remedies, we may also seek to reach a settlement with Wang Ji. If our efforts to regain control over T2CN or its assets are unsuccessful, our future results of operations will likely be harmed. Our loss of control over T2CN and efforts to regain control also continues to occupy significant management time and resources. Moreover, our efforts to regain control over T2CN could hamper future business development efforts in China. See Item 8, “Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Information on Legal or Arbitration Proceedings — Dispute with the former head of our Asian online game and service business in the PRC and former Chief Executive Officer of T2CN” in this annual report. 6 Table of Contents Failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our Shares Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting requirements under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In making such assessment, our management also used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must express an opinion on the effectiveness of our Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that as of December 31, 2010, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at a reasonable assurance level in that they failed to timely detect the circumvention of our internal controls and procedures which resulted in our inability to exercise sufficient control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process. We excluded IAHGames from our assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 because we acquired a controlling financial interest in the assets underlying the business of IAHGames and began to consolidate this business on July 1, 2010, which qualified under current SEC interpretive guidance for exclusion from our assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Since early July 2010 when the Company started to implement the internal restructuring plan with respect to T2CN’s leadership team, there have been disputes between the Company and the former chief executive officer of T2CN over his future role in the Company and T2CN. Due to these disputes, the former chief executive officer of T2CN effectively usurped control over and access to the accounts of the T2CN Operating Entities, and has taken actions or directed subordinates to take actions that circumvented the existing internal control system. As a result, we determined that there were inadequate controls in place to address risks related to usurpation of established policies, procedures and control systems related to T2CN which resulted in our inability to exercise sufficient control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process, which eventually resulted in a significant loss to the Company. Our management believes that our loss of and continuing inability to maintain sufficient control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process has been mainly caused by the actions of the former chief executive officer of T2CN as described above. As a result of this loss of control, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded a full impairment of $22.2 million against our remaining investment in T2CN and we have recognized a full provision against the loan of $1.4 million due from T2CN. Our management does not believe that the material weakness described above has caused our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 to contain a material misstatement, as management completely impaired both the Company’s investment in and advances to T2CN during the fourth quarter of 2010 in order to properly reflect the Company’s financial position as of December 31, 2010. We have completed our Section 404 assessment under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and received our auditors’ attestation as of December 31, 2010. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm includes an opinion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our Shares. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act going forward. We may not be successful in operating and improving our existing online games to satisfy the changing demands and preferences of players The level of demand and market acceptance of our existing online games is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • the popularity of existing and new online games operated by us; • the introduction of new online games by us or third parties, competing with or replacing our existing online games; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; 7 Table of Contents • changes in our customer demands and preferences; • regulatory and other risks associated with our operations in China, Taiwan and Southeast Asia; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by how well we anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, a substantial portion of our online games revenue is derived from revenues from the online MahJong games and other casual games offered in Taiwan and Hong Kong by FunTown and from three licensed games, FIFA Online 2, Dragonica Online and Granado Espada, operated by IAHGames in Southeast Asia. However, there is no assurance that these games will continue to be popular. A decline in the popularity of online games in general is likely to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To maintain competitiveness of our games, we are generally required to continuously invest in enhancing, improving, expanding or upgrading our games. If we fail to do so, revenues generated from our existing games may decline. In addition, we expect that as we introduce new online games, a portion of our existing customers will switch to the new games. If this transfer of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans and, as a result, our growth and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The key factors affecting our businesses include: • Gaming software and service business: the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Internet gaming industry; global economic conditions and general economic conditions of the markets where the products of Everest Gaming target; availability of the Internet infrastructure; and the technological and other competition from existing and new competitors of Everest Gaming. • Asian online game and service business: our ability to retain existing users; attract new users and maintain user satisfaction; the pace of rolling out new games or updating existing games by us or our competitors; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business operations and expansion; seasonal trends in Internet use; price competition in the industry; regulatory and other risks associated from our operations in the PRC, Taiwan and Southeast Asia. In addition, our operating expenses are based on our expectations of the future demand for our services and are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected demand shortfall. A decrease in revenues in relation to our expenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on year-to-year or quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as indicators of our future performance. Our business strategy, which contemplates growth through acquisitions and strategic investments, exposes us to significant risks We have pursued and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions and strategic investments. Any acquisition or investment is subject to a number of risks. Such risks include the diversion of management time and resources, disruption of our ongoing business, lack of familiarity with new markets, difficulties in supporting the acquired business, and dilution to existing stockholders if our common stock is issued in consideration for an acquisition or investment, incurring or assuming indebtedness or other liabilities in connection with an acquisition. We entered into strategic alliances with SoftStar Entertainment Inc. (“SoftStar”), Neostorm Holdings Limited (“Neostorm”), XLGames Inc. (“XL Games”), Access China Holding Limited (“Access China”), Gorilla Banana Entertainment Corp. (“Gorilla Banana Entertainment”), JC Entertainment Corporation (“JC Entertainment”), Possibility Space Incorporated, and East Gate Media Contents & Technology Fund (“East Gate”) in June 2007, October 2007, December 2007, January 2008, May 2009, September 2009, December 2009, and August 2010, respectively. SoftStar is an online game development and publishing company incorporated in Taiwan. Neostorm was formed by the merger of four previously independent game development studios creating one of the largest independent game development companies in South Korea. Neostorm focuses on medium-core casual game titles. XL Games was founded by the creator of one of the most popular online game franchises in history and focuses on MMORPGs with studios in Seoul, South Korea and Austin, Texas. Access China is an online game software developer in the PRC. Gorilla Banana Entertainment is an online game software developer in Korea. JC Entertainment is a publicly-listed company which develops online games in Korea. Possibility Space Incorporated is an online game software developer in the PRC. East Gate is a Korean Fund which invests in online game businesses and films. For additional information with respect to our acquisitions and investments, see Item 4, “Information on The Company — A. History and Development of Our Company” in this annual report. 8 Table of Contents The total costs incurred in connection with our acquisitions and investments in various businesses in 2010 were approximately US$23.9 million. Our financial results may be affected by such acquisitions or investments. We may incur debts upon an acquisition or suffer losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets following these acquisitions. These debts or losses could negatively impact our results of operations. We recognized an impairment loss on goodwill of approximately US$2.3 million, and an impairment loss on marketable securities and investments of approximately US$4.7 million in 2010. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Any impairment on goodwill and marketable securities and investments in the future may have a negative impact on our financial results. We will continue to examine the merits, risks and feasibility of potential transactions, and expect to explore additional acquisition opportunities in the future. Such examination and exploration efforts, and any related discussions with third parties, may or may not lead to future acquisitions and investments. We may not be able to complete acquiring or investing transactions that we initiate. Our ability to grow through such acquisitions and investments will depend on many factors, including the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to reach agreement with acquisition candidates or investee companies on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete the transactions and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. We also face challenges in integrating any acquired business. These challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, maintaining the relationship with the suppliers, vendors and/or distributors of acquired businesses, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses. The process of integrating the acquired business may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or investment transaction may take considerable time to be fully realized and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment and the subsequent integration will produce the intended benefits. The online games market is characterized by rapid technological change, and failure to respond quickly and effectively to new Internet technologies or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business The online games industry is evolving rapidly. Any new technologies and new standards may require increases in expenditures for online game development and operations. In addition, we use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing and payment transactions in our Asian online game and service business. All of our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to upgrade our systems effectively to accommodate future traffic levels, to avoid obsolescence or to successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower responses, which could adversely affect data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or potential users and existing or potential game development partners. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth We are pursuing a number of growth strategies. Some of these strategies relate to services, products or markets in which we lack experience and expertise. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated further expansion of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operation systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, including those of acquired businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current global economic slowdown and other adverse economic conditions may negatively impact our business The current global economic slowdown has resulted in an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and increased market volatility. These unfavorable changes in economic conditions have resulted in decreased spending by our customers. The impact of economic conditions on our licensees and business partners could adversely affect our business and revenues. In addition, the current global financial turmoil and the tightening of credit have resulted in a general credit crunch and have negatively impacted our ability to obtain additional financings. If the current global economic slowdown and global financial turmoil continue on a sustained basis, they will further negatively impact our Asian online game and service business and the demand for Everest Gaming’s gaming software products and services, which will adversely affect our business, revenues, cash flows, profitability and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents Our Asian online game and service business faces intense competition, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and planned business expansion The online games market is highly competitive. Online casual game operators in Greater China and Southeast Asia are currently our primary competitors. We also compete with MMORPG operators throughout Greater China and Southeast Asia. Our major competitors in Taiwan include Gamania Digital Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Gamania”), Soft-World International Corporation (“Soft-World”), International Games System, Co., Ltd. (“IGS”), UserJoy Technology Co., Ltd. (“UserJoy”) and GodGame Inc. (“GodGame”). Our major competitors in the PRC include Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (“Shanda”), Giant Interactive Group, Inc. (“Giant”), Changyou.com Limited (“Changyou”), The9 Limited, Shanghai Everstar Online Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Nineyou”), Tencent Holdings Limited (“Tencent”), Perfect World Co., Ltd. (“Perfect World”), Kingsoft Corporation Limited (“Kingsoft”), Beijing Globalink Computer Technology Co., Ltd.(“Ourgames.com”) and Chinagames.net. Our major competitors in Southeast Asia are Asiasoft International Co., Ltd. (“Asiasoft”) and Lyto.Net (“Lyto”). In addition, we compete for users against various offline games, such as console games, arcade games and handheld games, as well as various other forms of traditional or online entertainment. We expect more online games operating companies to enter in the markets where we operate, including Greater China and Southeast Asia, and a wider range of online games to be introduced to these markets, given the relatively low entry barriers to the online games industry and the increasing popularity of Internet-based businesses. Our competitors vary in size and include private and public companies, many of which have greater financial, marketing and technical resources as well as name brand recognition. We intend to continue to enhance our market position through providing competitive products and quality services that meet market trends and users’ preferences, as well as strengthening sales effectiveness. As a result of the above, significant competition may reduce the number of our users or the growth rate of our user base, reduce the average number of hours played by our users, or cause us to reduce usage fees. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Asian online game and service business depends on the reliability of the network infrastructure and related services provided by ourselves and third parties, which is subject to physical, technological, security and other risks; the Everest Gaming business also faces similar risks The development and operation of our online networks and those of Everest Gaming are subject to physical, technological, security and other risks which may result in interruption in service or reduced capacity. These risks include physical damage, power loss, telecommunications failure, capacity limitation, hardware or software failures or defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, system break-ins or otherwise. An increase in the volume of usage of online services could strain the capacity of the software and hardware employed, which could result in slower response time or system failures. We have a variety of backup servers at our primary site to deal with possible system failures. However, we do not have redundant facilities in the event of an emergency. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessation in service to users of our online services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. While we and Everest Gaming have implemented industry-standard security measures, our network and those of Everest Gaming may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service and other disruptive problems. Our Internet-based services may be interrupted as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, our current and former employees or others. A party that is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, attack our security and network system, and, perhaps, most importantly, cause interruptions in our operations. We and Everest Gaming have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, security breaches and attacks. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and attacks or to alleviate problems caused by such actions. There can be no assurance that any measures implemented will not be circumvented in the future. Our business and that of Everest Gaming are also vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on infrastructure and related services provided by third parties. End-users of Everest Gaming’s gaming software depend on ISPs and Everest Gaming’s system infrastructure for access to the Internet gaming sites operated by UIM and its sub-licensees and currently by Everest Gaming. Many of these services have experienced service outages in the past and could experience service outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures, stability or interruption. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan, and in March 2011 an earthquake off the north-east coast of Japan, damaged several undersea fiber optic cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. We may lose customers as a result of delays or interruption in service, including delays or interruptions relating to high volumes of traffic or technological problems, which may prevent communication over the Internet and could materially adversely affect our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Any failure to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network could have a material and adverse impact on our Asian online game and service business, financial condition and results of operations Our Asian online game and service business operation relies heavily on a multi-layer distribution and payment network composed of third party distributors for our sales to, and collection of payment from, our users. As we do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our distributors, we cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If we fail to maintain a stable and efficient distribution and payment network, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our ability to process electronic commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, we have a formal disaster recovery plan. Nevertheless, any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. We could be liable for breaches of security on our websites and fraudulent transactions by users of our websites A portion of our transactions are conducted through our websites. In such transactions, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. In addition, we may face internal fraud, including potential unauthorized usage of customer credit card information by our employees. While we have taken steps to prevent this, including the implementation of payment card industry data security standards, our current security measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our or our licensees’ reputation and ability to attract and retain customers. Everest Gaming may also face similar risks in its online gaming operations. Undetected programming errors or defects in our software, services and games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our Asian online game and service business and the Everest Gaming business, financial condition and results of operations Everest Gaming’s software, services and games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. These errors or other defects could damage Everest Gaming’s reputation and subject it to liability. As to online games, parties unrelated to us may develop cheating programs that enable users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If such errors, defects and cheating programs occur in software, services and games Everest Gaming operates, Everest Gaming’s business operations and, in turn, our business and financial condition, could be materially and adversely affected. Operation of pirate game servers and the expenses incurred in protecting our Asian online game and service business operation against unlawful operations through pirate servers may adversely affect our business We continue to face challenges from pirate game servers, which are game servers that operate unauthorized copies of our online games and permit users to play those games without purchasing pre-paid game cards from us. The existence of unauthorized servers may attract game players away from our games and may result in decreases in our revenues. We have detected the operation by pirate servers of unauthorized copies of several of our games. In January 2009, for example, we discovered that certain unauthorized third parties had misappropriated the source codes of Luna Online and had set up unauthorized servers to unlawfully operate the game in the PRC. Although we have made efforts to detect and shutdown pirate servers in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, we cannot assure you that such efforts will be successful in eliminating these unauthorized servers. In addition, detailed comparisons of software codes and litigation proceedings are often necessary to enforce the intellectual property rights, whether owned by or licensed by us, which sometimes result in substantial costs. The continued illegal operation of any of our existing games by pirate game servers, or the illegal operation of any of our new games by pirate servers, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property right infringement by third parties, which could subject us to significant liabilities and other costs Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against us. The validity and scope of claims relating to the intellectual property may involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis, and tend to be uncertain. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against us, we have to defend ourselves in legal or administrative proceedings, which can be costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and prevent us from selling our products and services. The imposition of liabilities that are not covered by insurance, in excess of insurance coverage or for which we are not indemnified by a content provider, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We may need to incur significant expenses to protect our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. We have patents, copyrights and trademarks in certain jurisdictions and may apply for further trademark and copyright registrations and additional patents, which may provide such protection in relevant jurisdictions. However, we cannot assure you that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are evolving, and therefore, uncertain. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of the PRC, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Southeast Asia are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States do. We may have to engage in litigation or other legal proceedings to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future results of operations or the growth of our business may suffer if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with the licensors of our online games We primarily source MMORPGs, advanced casual games and non-RPG MMOs through licensing from developers in various regions where online game development is relatively established. As of the date of this annual report, we have seven licensed MMORPGs and nine licensed advanced casual games and non-RPG MMOs in our online game portfolio, including the games we currently offer and the games in the pipeline. We need to maintain stable and satisfactory working relationships with our licensors in order to ensure the continued operation of our licensed online games and our continued access to new online game licenses. We depend on our licensors to provide the necessary technical support for the operation of the licensed games as well as expansion packs and upgrades that sustain continuing interest in the games. Our ability to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our licensors may also influence our ability to license new online games developed by the same or other licensors. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with our licensors, our financial condition, results of operations, future profitability and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; and • respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, any failure to obtain additional financing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may need to delay the deployment of our services. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. We rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on our Asian online game and service business, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced professionals to maintain our competitiveness. 12 Table of Contents If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. As a result, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by political stability, as well as the occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics We operate our Asian online game and service business in Greater China and Southeast Asia. Political unrest, war, acts of terrorism and other instability, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons which are common in Greater China and Southeast Asia, can result in disruption to our business or the businesses of our customers. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters and the effects of influenza A (H1N1), Avian influenza (H5N1), SARS or other epidemics. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in the regions where we operate may have material adverse effects on our business operations. These could include illness and loss of our management and key employees. Natural disasters or outbreak of epidemics may result in a decrease in economic activities or temporary closure of many businesses and disruption in our operations. In addition, other major natural disasters may also adversely affect our business by, for example, causing disruptions of the Internet network or otherwise affecting access to our games. In 2010, we recorded operating losses, and we may experience losses in the future In 2010, we recorded an operating loss of US$47.7 million. Our future profitability will depend primarily upon the performance of our Asian online game and service business and the Everest Gaming business. We cannot assure you that we will not experience operating or net losses in future periods. Risks Related to Our Joint Venture with BetClic We do not control the management of our joint venture with BetClic and have no control over its day-to-day business operations and any significant difficulties encountered by the joint venture in its operations may have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results On April 8, 2010, we completed the sale of a 60 percent interest in our online gaming software business to BetClic, a leading European sports betting and online gaming group. The strategic alliance with BetClic was structured as a stock and asset sale to a newly-formed French entity, Everest Gaming, in which we received a 40 percent stake. Concurrent with the transaction, we purchased the shares of UIM, our then-major licensee which provided online gaming services, and sold all of UIM’s material assets (including the Everest Poker operations) to Everest Gaming. We hold the remaining 40 percent of Everest Gaming with a put option to sell all or part of our shares to BetClic. The put option is exercisable in 2013, 2014 and 2015. BetClic holds a call option on any remaining Everest Gaming interests held by us which it may exercise in 2015 and 2016. For both our put option and BetClic’ call option, the price paid will be determined based upon the fair market value of Everest Gaming as of December 31 of the prior year, as determined by mutual agreement between the parties or, failing that, an appraisal process. While BetClic will generally control the day-to-day operations of Everest Gaming, so long as we hold at least 20 percent of Everest Gaming’s share capital, we will have approval rights over certain material actions of Everest Gaming, including certain issuances of securities of Everest Gaming, acquisitions and dispositions of certain assets and material changes to the principal business of Everest Gaming. In addition, so long as we hold at least 10 percent of Everest Gaming’s share capital, we will have representation on the board of directors of Everest Gaming. We do not control Everest Gaming’s management and hence have no control over its day-to-day business operations. Our rights under the earn-out and the put or call option are of uncertain value. We may have disputes with BetClic regarding the operations of Everest Gaming or the calculation of the earn-out or put or call option payments. We cannot assure you that our strategic alliance with BetClic through such joint venture structure will be commercially successful. Any significant difficulties encountered by Everest Gaming in its operations or significant deviation from the terms of the agreement with BetClic, may have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results. 13 Table of Contents The uncertain global legal and regulatory environment could have a negative impact on the Everest Gaming business and prospects Everest Gaming primarily targets non-U.S. markets, predominantly the Continental European markets. Several European countries have adopted a regulated online gaming approach. For example, Italy has recently introduced a new set of regulations on online gaming. Italy, while initially a poker-only jurisdiction, has set forth a regulatory regime for casino. Italy does, however, prohibit cash games in online poker offerings, thereby restricting the poker activity to tournaments. Online poker tournaments, pari-mutual betting on horseraces and sports events are legal provided that the game operators are licensed by the relevant authorities. The French issued a license to Everest Gaming for online poker in June 2010. Online casino is widely seen as being prohibited under French law and Everest Gaming has stopped offering online casino gaming to people in France. Spain has promulgated a regulatory framework on online gaming. The regulations are currently awaiting review by the European Court of Justice and are expected to become effective shortly, and license applications will be accepted by the regulator by January 1, 2012. Everest Gaming plans on pursuing a license at that time. Other jurisdictions in which Everest Gaming operates may require local licensing in the future. There can be no assurance that Everest Gaming will be successful in its efforts to obtain a gaming license from these jurisdictions, and that Everest Gaming would not face the potential loss of users in these jurisdictions. In addition, many European countries, including the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany, have taken actions or introduced legislation aimed at banning foreign online gaming operators, which could have a material adverse effect on Everest Gaming and consequently on our Company. The Internet gaming industry is still in an early stage of development and the global legal and regulatory environment in which Internet gaming businesses operate remains highly uncertain and is subject to change. While many jurisdictions have some form of legal framework applicable to games of chance and land-based casinos, few provide clear guidance on how this framework applies to Internet gaming. In addition, the very nature of Internet gaming creates new and unique forms of entertainment that were neither contemplated nor feasible in the past. There can be no assurance that legislation prohibiting Internet gaming or regulating various aspects of Internet gaming industry will not be proposed and passed in potentially relevant jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that Everest Gaming, as an online gaming operator, is in compliance with all laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which it operates, or that changes in such laws and regulations, or in their interpretation, will not adversely affect our business and results of operations. For additional information on the regulatory environment relating to online gaming, see Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation” in this annual report. The Everest Gaming business faces intense competition, which may adversely affect our financial results We are exposed to competition among Everest Gaming and other game operators in the online gaming industry. Everest Gaming faces intense competition in the online gaming industry, which is characterized by low barriers to entry, rapid technological change and ever-changing consumer preferences. New entrants to the online gaming industry, increasingly competitive market consolidations and aggressive marketing and pricing by competitors may lead to a significant decline in the customer base, revenues and margins of Everest Gaming. In addition, the online gaming industry is influenced by various other factors, including changes in policies and regulations and economic conditions in different jurisdictions. For example, many European countries such as Spain and Germany, where there are state-owned gaming monopolies, have taken actions or introduced legislation aimed at ring fencing the “liquidity” of online poker players by allowing players to play within their borders only. This decrease in liquidity will have an adverse effect on the Everest Gaming poker business. Furthermore, some of Everest Gaming’s competitors have greater experiences, resources and distribution capabilities. For additional information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Software and Service Business — Competition” in this annual report. The Everest Gaming business will be materially and adversely affected if credit card companies and other financial institutions cease to accept online gaming transactions A substantial portion of Everest Gaming’s proceeds from its online gaming operations is from the deposits or payments made by its customers through credit card transactions. Financial institutions in the United States have ceased to accept online gaming transactions after the enactment of the UIGEA, which prohibits the use of communication facilities and financial transactions in connection with Internet gambling. For additional information, see Item 4, “The Information on The Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation” in this annual report. Although Everest Gaming primarily targets non-U.S. markets, predominantly in Continental European markets, there can be no assurance that credit card companies or other financial institutions in the jurisdictions where Everest Gaming operates will continue to accept and process online gaming transactions. Furthermore, there is a higher incidence of fraud associated with online credit card payments than with other types of payments, which could further discourage issuing banks from processing online gaming transactions. If credit card companies or other financial institutions cease to accept online gaming transactions, either generally or in the jurisdictions where Everest Gaming operates, Everest Gaming’s revenues and, in turn, its gaming software and service business could be materially and adversely affected. The Everest Gaming business is international and therefore faces associated risks There are certain difficulties and inherent risks faced by our Company and Everest Gaming, our joint venture with BetClic, in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks. Changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, in jurisdictions in which we or Everest Gaming operate, and in which our or Everest Gaming’s customers are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in Greater China PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign ownership and investment in the online game industry, and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations We are classified as a foreign enterprise under PRC laws and various regulations in the PRC currently restrict foreign or foreign-owned enterprises from holding certain licenses required to provide and operate online games over the Internet in the PRC, including Internet content provider license (“ICP license”), Internet culture operation license, Internet publishing license and Internet advertising license. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our Asian online game and service business in the PRC through our four variable interest entities (“VIEs”), including T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI. Until June 30, 2010, T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou had been effectively controlled by T2 Technology, a wholly owned subsidiary of T2CN, through contractual arrangements. T2 Entertainment and Jinyou hold ICP licenses and Internet cultural operation licenses that are required for operating our Asian online game and service business in the PRC, and T2 Advertisement holds an advertising license that is required to sell advertisements on our websites in the PRC. Beginning in June 2007, the financial results of T2 Entertainment and T2 Advertisement have been included in our consolidated financial statements. The financial results of Jinyou have been included in our consolidated financial statements starting from September 2008. Shanghai JIDI was established on December 6, 2010 and is effectively controlled by us through a series of contractual arrangements. Shanghai JIDI also holds an ICP license and Internet cultural operation licenses and is in the process of applying for an Internet publishing license. The financial results of Shanghai JIDI have been included into our consolidated financial statements since January 2011. For additional information, see Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations Relating to Online Games in the PRC — Foreign Ownership Restrictions” and Item 4, “Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure” in this annual report. As part of contractual arrangements, T2 Technology entered into certain equity pledge agreements with the shareholders of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou, respectively, pursuant to which the shareholders of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou state that they pledge all of their respective equity interests to T2 Technology as security for the full performance of their respective obligations under certain exclusive call option agreements, voting rights and proxy agreements and loan agreements as well as the full performance of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou’s respective obligations under certain exclusive technical service agreements, exclusive commercial service agreements, exclusive call option agreements and voting rights and proxy agreements. Each of the shareholders of Shanghai JIDI has agreed to pledge their respective shares in Shanghai JIDI on request to secure the payments granted by GigaMedia (HK) Limited, our wholly owned subsidiary, to each shareholder respectively for the purpose of establishing Shanghai JIDI. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, a pledge over the equity interests of a limited liability company is created only when such equity pledge agreements are registered with the relevant local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (the “SAIC”). T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI have not registered the equity pledge agreements with the relevant local branch of the SAIC. Consequently, we believe that unless and until these equity pledge agreements have been properly registered, we will not be able to enforce these pledges in the PRC courts. We cannot assure you that we will be able to validly obtain the rights to the equity interests of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI without due registration of relevant equity pledge agreements. In July 2006, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (“MIIT”, formerly the Ministry of Information Industry) issued a notice, which prohibits holders of ICP licenses and holders of value-added telecommunications business operation licenses from leasing, transferring or selling a telecommunications business operating license to any foreign investors in any form, or providing any resource, sites or facilities to any foreign investors for their illegal operation of telecommunications business in the PRC. The notice also requires that ICP license holders and their shareholders directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such ICP license holders in their daily operations. The notice further requires each ICP license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunication service providers are required to maintain network and information security in accordance with the standards set forth under relevant PRC regulations. Local authorities in the various regions were required to ensure that existing ICP license holders conducted self-assessments of their compliance with the notice and submitted their status reports to the MIIT prior to November 1, 2006. T2 Entertainment, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI have conducted their self-assessments and believe that they are in compliance with the requirements of the notice. T2 Entertainment, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI have obtained the ICP licenses required for online games operation in the PRC. On September 28, 2009, the PRC General Administration of Press and Publication (“GAPP”), National Copyright Administration, and National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published a notice, which, among others, (i) provides that GAPP is responsible for pre-examination and approval of Internet games as authorized by the central government and State Council, and that the provision of Internet games either online or on a downloaded basis constitutes Internet game publishing, which is subject to pre-examination and approval by GAPP; and (ii) prohibits foreign investors from participating in Internet game operating businesses via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in the PRC, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements. If applied literally and uniformly, such notice would render our ownership structure in the PRC invalid and illegal. To date, however, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of such notice. 15 Table of Contents There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that PRC government authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with our view. If we or any of our PRC operating companies are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant government authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations and could impose significant penalties and sanctions or other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines, confiscating income, revoking business or operating licenses, requiring us to restructure our ownership structure, and requiring us to discontinue all or any part of our business operations. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since July 1, 2010, we have lost effective control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process due to the disputes with Wang Ji, the former chief executive officer of T2CN (“Wang Ji”), that arose in July 2010. Therefore, we deconsolidated T2CN’s financial results with effect from July 1, 2010 and completely wrote off our investment and advances to the entities held or controlled by T2CN in the fourth quarter of 2010. We have been pursuing all means to regain effective control over a majority of T2CN’s assets, including but not limited to the filing of lawsuits against Wang Ji in the courts of the PRC, Hong Kong, Singapore and the British Virgin Islands. If our contractual arrangements between T2 Technology and three VIEs are found in the PRC courts or by applicable PRC government authorities to be in violation of existing PRC laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our PRC lawsuits against Wang Ji in connection with T2 Entertainment and therefore we may not be able to regain our effective control over T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou. See Item 8, “Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Information on Legal or Arbitration Proceedings — Dispute with the former head of our Asian online game and service business in the PRC and former Chief Executive Officer of T2CN” in this annual report. The contractual arrangements with T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI and their shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership and the shareholders of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI may have potential conflicts of interest with us We operate our Asian online game and service business in the PRC through T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI, all of which are our VIEs. We have no ownership interest in any of these VIEs and rely on a series of contractual arrangements that are intended to give us effective control over them. However, the contractual arrangements may not be as effective as compared to having direct ownership and control over these companies. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors, which, in turn, could affect changes, at the management level. In addition, these VIEs could violate their contractual arrangements with us, go bankrupt, suffer from problems in their businesses or otherwise become unable to perform their contracts with us. As a result, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Most principal shareholders of T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement, Jinyou and Shanghai JIDI have no substantial shareholdings in our Company. Thus, their interests as shareholders of the VIEs and their duties to our Company may conflict. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these persons will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. Any legal proceeding could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resources and the incurring of substantial costs. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, the underlying contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to exert effective control over our PRC operating VIEs, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure” in this annual report. Since July 1, 2010, we have lost effective control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process due to the dispute with Wang Ji. We have been pursuing all means to regain effective control over a majority of T2CN’s assets, including but not limited to the filing of lawsuits against Wang Ji in the courts of the PRC, Hong Kong, Singapore and the British Virgin Islands. See Item 8, “Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Information on Legal or Arbitration Proceedings — Dispute with the former head of our Asian online game and service business in the PRC and former Chief Executive Officer of T2CN” in this annual report. We cannot assure that we can successfully and eventually regain effective control over our three VIEs, T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou, and we have incurred and may continue to incur a significant amount of legal fees in connection with the litigations in various jurisdictions. There is no assurance that similar issues will not arise in connection with the business operations of Shanghai JIDI, our newly established VIE in the PRC. In the event that Shanghai JIDI violates its contractual arrangements with us, becomes bankrupt, suffers from problems in its businesses or otherwise becomes unable to perform its contracts with us or any legal procedures initiated due to any dispute with the shareholders of Shanghai JIDI, our business could be disrupted and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents The laws and regulations governing the online games industry in the PRC are evolving and new regulations may adversely affect our business Our provision of online games and online game-related content on our websites in China is subject to various PRC laws and regulations relating to the telecommunications industry and Internet and online games, and is regulated by various government and regulatory authorities. The principal PRC regulations governing the provision of Internet content and online gaming services include (among others) the Telecommunications Regulations (2000), the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises (2001), the Tentative Measures for the Administration of Internet Publications (2002), the Opinions on the Development and Management of Online Games (2005), the Anti-Internet Addiction Regulations (2007), the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating Licenses (2009), and the Tentative Measures for Online Games Administration (2010) and the Tentative Measures for Administration of Internet Culture (2011). We may be affected by these regulations, which seek to regulate the content of online games and the business operation of online game operators and discourage online game players from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. This may reduce the number of our users, the growth rate of our user base, the general online games market in the PRC or the average number of hours played by online game players, or cause us to reduce usage fees or other charges in connection with our Asian online game and service business. In addition, compliance with such regulations may require us to incur substantial costs in modifying or adapting our game software to comply with the regulatory requirements. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The adoption of new laws or regulations in the PRC relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase the cost of conducting our business or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. New PRC laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. For example, in order to counter Internet addiction, in April 2007, eight PRC government authorities issued regulations to discourage online game-players who are minors from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. Pursuant to these regulations, Internet game operators have been ordered to install anti-addiction software features on games offered in the PRC, which will, among other features, limit the number of points and other benefits which can be awarded to game players after they have been online in excess of specified periods of time. Internet game operators will also be required to adopt real-name registration, which will require online game players to register their real identity information before they will be allowed to play online games. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation” in this annual report. There are currently no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have in respect of virtual assets In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of user identifications by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China where we operate our Asian online game and service business. As a result, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Based on several judgments regarding the liabilities of online game operators for loss of virtual assets by game players, the PRC courts have generally required online game operators to provide well-developed security systems to protect such virtual assets owned by game players. In the case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and could be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect our revenues from online game operations in the PRC Our online game operations revenues in the PRC are primarily collected through the sale of our prepaid game cards or online sale of game points. On February 15, 2007, 14 PRC government authorities jointly issued the Circular for Further Strengthening the Administration of Internet Café and Online Games, which directs the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. This circular provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players should be strictly limited, with a strict and clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. This notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. On June 4, 2009, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Commerce jointly issued the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Virtual Currency in Online Games. According to this circular, any PRC entities engaging in issuance or trade service of virtual currency in online games shall meet the requirements of “Commercial Online Cultural Entities” as prescribed in the Tentative Measures for Administration of Internet Culture (first issued in 2003 and revised in 2011) and are required to apply to the Ministry of Culture for an approval. This circular further provides, among others, that (i) the form, issuance scope and unit purchase price of virtual currency, the refund method in case of termination of online games, the purchase method for the users (including cash, bank card, payment via Internet, etc.), the protection measures for users’ rights and interests, and the technology security safeguard measures, shall be filed with the Ministry of Culture for record; (ii) the unit purchase price of virtual currency shall not be changed by online games operators; (iii) the new type of virtual currency shall be filed with the Ministry of Culture for record before issuance by online games operators; and (iv) the virtual currency trade service shall not be open to the minors. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Tentative Measures for Online Games Administration (the “Tentative Measures”), which will take effect as of August 1, 2010. The Tentative Measures’ provisions with respect to virtual currency substantially reiterate current law, although they also impose a prohibition on trading services for unapproved or unfiled online games. “Virtual Currency for Online Games” was defined as a virtual exchange tool represented by special numerical units, issued by online game operators and deposited by magnetic recording in a server outside online games and should be directly or indirectly purchased at certain rates by game players with legal tender. Providing virtual currency trading services to minors is prohibited. Virtual currency can only be used for the online game products and service and shall not be used to purchase other goods and service and all users’ purchase record shall be kept for at least 180 days. These restrictions may result in lower sales of our prepaid game cards or game points, and could have an adverse effect on our game operations revenues. 17 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by government policies and regulation of Internet cafés in the PRC Internet cafés are one of the primary venues where our online games were distributed and played in the PRC. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés. In particular, a large number of Internet cafés without requisite government licenses have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. The PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may also slow down the growth in the number of new Internet cafés. In February 2007, 14 PRC government authorities jointly issued a notice, which suspended approval for the establishment of new Internet cafés and called for strengthened regulation of existing Internet cafés. It is unclear when or if this suspension will be lifted. The PRC governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as the customers’ age limit and hours of operation, among others, as a result of the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafés. The implementation of these measures, or enactment by the PRC government of any additional laws to further regulate Internet cafés, may result in fewer customers or less time spent by customers playing our online games, which could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Internet Café Regulation” in this annual report. Changes in foreign exchange and foreign investment regulations and limitations on dividend payment in the PRC may affect our ability to invest in China and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends and service debts Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency at present. The PRC government regulates conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies. Changes in PRC laws and regulations on foreign exchange may result in uncertainties in our financing and operating plans in China. Over the years, China has significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, payment of dividends and service of foreign debts. In accordance with the existing foreign exchange regulations in China, our PRC subsidiaries may, within the scope of current account transactions, pay dividends and service debts in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, there can be no assurance that the current PRC foreign exchange policies with respect to debt service and payment of dividends in foreign currencies will continue in the future. Changes in PRC foreign exchange policies may have a negative impact on our ability to service our foreign currency-denominated indebtedness and to distribute dividends to our shareholders in foreign currencies since our subsidiaries in China need to convert their Renminbi cash flow to service such foreign debt and to make such dividend payments. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls. In particular, foreign exchange transactions involving foreign direct investment, foreign debts and outbound investment in securities and derivatives are subject to limitations and require approvals from the relevant SAFE authorities. We have the choice, as permitted by the PRC foreign investment regulations, to invest in the form of registered capital or a shareholder loan into our PRC subsidiaries to finance our operations in China. Our choice of investment is affected by the different treatments under the relevant PRC regulations with respect to capital-account and current-account foreign exchange transactions in China. For example, our transfer of funds to our subsidiaries in China is subject to approval of PRC governmental authorities in case of an increase in registered capital, or subject to registration with PRC governmental authorities in case of a shareholder loan. These and other limitations on the flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and limit our flexibility in the management of our cash flow and financings. See Item 10, “Additional Information — D. Exchange Controls” in this annual report. In addition, recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject the PRC resident shareholders of our PRC subsidiaries or us to penalties and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital, distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. Moreover, our PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside a certain percentage of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year for their reserve fund in accordance with the requirements of relevant PRC laws and the relevant provisions in their respective articles of associations. As a result, our PRC subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to transfer any portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. 18 Table of Contents There are economic risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between Taiwan and the PRC Our principal executive offices and a significant portion of our assets are located in Taiwan and a major portion of our revenues of Asian online game and service business are derived from our operations in Taiwan. Taiwan, as part of the Republic of China, has a unique international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan could also affect our Asian online game and service business. Risks Related to Ownership of our Shares The price of our Shares has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell our Shares when desired or at attractive prices The trading price of our Shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2010, the closing prices of our Shares on the NASDAQ Stock Market have ranged from US$1.40 to US$3.32 per share, and the closing price on June 24, 2011 was US$1.29. Our Share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Shares, regardless of our operating performance. We are controlled by the Koo family, which has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, and their interests may conflict with your interests As of March 31, 2011, members of the Koo family beneficially owned approximately 19.19 percent of our outstanding Shares. Accordingly, the members of the Koo family have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of such members of the Koo family may differ from or conflict with your interests. Our transactions with related parties may not benefit us and may harm our Company We have entered into several transactions with certain related parties. We believe that we have conducted our related-party transactions on an arm’s-length basis and on terms comparable to, or more favorable to us than, similar transactions we would enter into with independent third parties. However, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with related parties will be beneficial to us. See Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related-Party Transactions” in this annual report. Our Asian online game and service business in the PRC relies on revenues transferred from our PRC VIEs to us pursuant to contractual arrangements. Any restriction on such payments for revenue transfer and any increase in the amount of PRC taxes applicable to such payments may materially and adversely affect our business and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou are not owned by us and they are not able to make dividend payments to us. Instead, T2 Technology, T2CN’s wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC, entered into a number of agreements with T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou, including certain exclusive technical service and consultancy agreement and exclusive business consultancy service agreements, pursuant to which T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou pay T2 Technology for certain services that T2 Technology provides to these companies. Since July 2007 and through June 2010, T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou had transferred substantially all of their net incomes to T2 Technology in exchange for certain exclusive technical consulting services and business consulting services provided by T2 Technology. Since July 1, 2010, we have lost effective control over a majority of T2CN’s assets and its financial reporting process due to the dispute with Wang Ji. While we are not aware that there has been any disruption to the ordinary business operations of the T2CN Operating Entities, no dividends or service fees have been declared or paid to us since the dispute began. JIDI, our wholly owned subsidiary in the PRC, entered into a consulting services agreement with Shanghai JIDI, one of our PRC VIEs, under which JIDI provides certain technical consulting services to Shanghai JIDI in exchange for substantially all of Shanghai JIDI’s net income. However, depending on the nature of services provided, certain of these payments are subject to PRC taxes at different rates, including business taxes and VATs, which would effectively reduce the amount that JIDI will receive from Shanghai JIDI. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not impose restrictions on such payments or change the tax rates applicable to such payments. Any such restrictions on such payment or increases in the applicable tax rates may materially and adversely affect our ability to receive payments from T2 Entertainment, T2 Advertisement and Jinyou or the amount of such payments in the event that we regain effective control over these VIEs, and from Shanghai JIDI or the amount of such payments, and may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, our net income and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 19 Table of Contents The ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us may be subject to restrictions under the laws of Taiwan We are a holding company, and some of our assets constitute our ownership interests in our subsidiaries in Taiwan, including Hoshin GigaMedia, which owns the Taiwan-based operations of our Asian online game and service business. Accordingly, part of our primary internal source of funds to meet our cash needs is our share of the dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries, including those in Taiwan. The distribution of dividends to us from these subsidiaries in Taiwan is subject to restrictions imposed by the applicable corporate and tax regulations in these countries, which are more fully described in Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Dividends from Our Subsidiaries” in this annual report. In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, the relevant regulations may be changed and the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be restricted in the future. Anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company, which could adversely affect the price of our Shares The Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers (the “Code”), issued pursuant to Section 321 of the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) regulates the acquisition of ordinary shares of, inter alia, listed public companies and contains certain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company. Any person acquiring an interest, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, in 30 percent or more of the voting shares in our Company must, except with the prior consent of the Singapore Securities Industry Council (the “SIC”), extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting shares in our Company in accordance with the provisions of the Code. Likewise, any person holding between 30 percent and 50 percent of the voting shares in our Company, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, must, except with the prior consent of the SIC, make a takeover offer in accordance with the provisions of the Code if that person together with parties acting in concert with him acquires additional voting shares in excess of one percent of the total number of voting shares in any six-month period. Under the Code, an offeror must treat all shareholders of the same class in an offeree company equally. A fundamental requirement is that shareholders in the company subject to the takeover offer must be given sufficient information, advice and time to consider and decide on the offer. These provisions contained in the Code may discourage or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. This may harm you because an acquisition bid may allow you to sell your Shares at a price above the prevailing market price. Our shareholders may be subject to Singapore taxes Singapore tax law may differ from the tax laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. Gains from the sale of our Shares by a person not tax resident in Singapore may be taxable in Singapore if such gains are part of the profits of any business carried on in Singapore. For additional information, see Item 10, “Additional Information — E. Taxation — Singapore Tax Consideration” in this annual report. You should consult your tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of acquiring, owning or selling the Shares. We are a Singapore company, and because the rights of shareholders under Singapore law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty in protecting your shareholder rights or enforcing any judgment obtained in the U.S. against us or our affiliates Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the applicable laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by the management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our Company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of Singapore. Many of our directors and senior management reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or any of these persons or to enforce in the United States any judgment obtained in the U.S. courts against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or any state or territory of the United States. Judgments of the U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws may not be enforceable in Singapore courts, and there is doubt as to whether Singapore courts will enter judgments in original actions brought in Singapore courts based solely upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. 20 Table of Contents We may be deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations We may be deemed to be an investment company under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”), and may suffer adverse consequences as a result. Generally, the 1940 Act provides that a company is an investment company if the company (i) is, holds itself out as or proposes to be engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities or (ii) is engaged or proposes to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. Under the 1940 Act, investment securities include, among other things, securities of non-majority owned businesses. However, a company that is primarily engaged, directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities is not an investment company. Following the completion of our restructuring efforts in September 2008, we have devoted our efforts and resources to gaming software products and application services and operating online games businesses primarily through CESL, our wholly-owned subsidiary. From time to time, we also make strategic non-controlling investments in entities that we believe, at the time of such investments, complement or enhance our business (“Strategic Investments”). These Strategic Investments may be deemed to be investment securities under the 1940 Act. In April 2010, we consummated the sale of a 60 percent interest in our gaming software business to BetClic, a leading European sports betting and online gaming group, for US$100 million in cash and the right to a possible earnout payment based on the future performance of the business. As part of the transaction, we purchased the shares of UIM, our then-major licensee which provided online gaming services, and sold all of UIM’s material assets to Everest Gaming. We and BetClic also hold, respectively, put and call options on our 40 percent interest in the gaming software and service business exercisable at fair market value at various dates over the next several years. As a result of the transaction with BetClic, we no longer have majority control of the gaming software and service business and have a significant amount of cash on hand. See Item 4, “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Gaming Software and Service Business” for additional information. Consequently, there is a risk that we could be deemed to be an investment company because our investment securities may be deemed to comprise more than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities or cash items) on an unconsolidated basis pending investment of the proceeds of the sale into our remaining businesses. However, based on our historical and current business activities, our intentions, the manner in which we hold ourselves out to the public, the primary activities of our officers and directors and an analysis of our non-cash assets and income during 2010, the first quarter of 2011 and in prior periods, we believe that the better view is that we are not an investment company. Nevertheless, a part of the determination of whether we are an investment company is based upon the composition and value of our non-cash assets, a significant portion of which are presently comprised of our Strategic Investments. As a result, we could be deemed to be an investment company. We intend to continue to conduct our businesses and operations so as to avoid being required to register as an investment company. Since the completion of the transaction with BetClic, we have sought opportunities to deploy our capital in a manner which would result in the Company acquiring majority interests in entities or businesses that complement or enhance our remaining businesses or would otherwise assist the Company in achieving our current corporate objectives. We have also limited, and intend to continue to limit, new Strategic Investments to those opportunities which would present excellent opportunities to complement or enhance our remaining businesses or would otherwise assist the Company in achieving our current corporate objectives. If, nevertheless, we were to be required to register as an investment company, because we are a foreign company, the 1940 Act would prohibit us and any person deemed to be an underwriter of our securities from offering for sale, selling or delivering after sale, in connection with a public offering, any security issued by the Company in the United States. Additionally, we may be unable to continue operating as we currently do and might need to acquire or sell assets that we would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid being treated as an “investment company” as defined under the 1940 Act. We may incur significant costs and management time in this regard, which could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences with respect to Shares In light of our significant cash balances and portfolio of investment securities, we believe that it is likely that we were classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ended December 31, 2010, and we will likely be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2011, unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of non-passive income. A non-United States corporation, such as us, will be treated as a PFIC for any taxably year in which 75 percent or more if its gross income consists of “passive” income or 50 percent or more of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values during such taxable year) are classified as passive assets. For this purpose, cash and other liquid assets are generally classified as passive and goodwill and other unbooked intangibles associated with active business activities may generally be classified as non-passive. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. person (as defined in “E. Taxation — U.S. Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company”) would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. person could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. person holds our Shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. person holds our Shares. For more information, see the section entitled “E. Taxation — U.S. Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company”. 21 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we conduct our business could adversely affect our profitability The operations of our Asian online game and service business are conducted in NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Renminbi and Singapore dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. Generally, an appreciation of NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Renminbi or Singapore dollars against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange loss for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange gain for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. On the contrary, a devaluation of NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Renminbi or Singapore dollars against U.S. dollars results in a foreign exchange gain for monetary assets denominated in U.S. dollars, and a foreign exchange loss for monetary liabilities denominated in U.S. dollars. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 