Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY Weakening economic conditions or other factors could continue to reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to maintain or increase such revenues. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, such as recessions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and unprecedented volatility, which some observers view as a recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This slowdown could lead to further reduced advertising expenditures in the foreseeable future. Because several of the Company’s segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising, declines and delays in advertising expenditures could continue to reduce the Company’s revenues and hinder its ability to maintain or increase these revenues. Advertising expenditures also could be negatively affected by other factors, such as shifting societal norms, pressure from public interest groups, changes in laws and regulations and other social, political, technological and regulatory developments. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial services, pharmaceutical, retail, telecommunications and food and beverage industries, represent a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, and any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these or other sectors could further adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to maintain or increase such revenues. Economic slowdowns may have, and in the case of the current economic slowdown, have had, additional consequences that impact the Company’s business and results of operations. Because many of the products and services offered by the Company are largely discretionary items, further weakening economic conditions or outlook could lead to declines in sales of such products and services. In addition, declines in consumer spending may indirectly impact the Company’s revenues by adversely affecting the sales of products that are required to use the Company’s products, such as high definition televisions and high definition DVD players, or by putting downward pricing pressure on advertising because advertisers may not perceive as much value in advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of their products or services. Accordingly, declines in consumer spending could have additional negative effects on the Company’s revenues or the Company’s ability to increase revenues. In addition, if growth in the number of homes occupied continues to decline, it could negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new or retain existing basic video subscribers and generate increased subscription revenues. The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of economic downturns on third parties, such as suppliers, retailers, film co-financing partners and other parties with which it does business. If these parties file for protection under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience negative effects on their businesses due to the economic slowdown or other reasons related to economic conditions, it could negatively affect the Company’s business or operating results. Time Warner is exposed to risks associated with turmoil in the financial markets. U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets are continuing to experience wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions continue or worsen, the Company’s cost of borrowing may increase, and it may be more difficult to obtain financing in the future. In addition, an increasing number of financial institutions and insurance companies have reported significant deterioration in their financial condition. If any of the significant lenders, insurance companies or other financial institutions are unable to perform their obligations under the Company’s credit agreements, insurance policies or other contracts, and the Company is unable to find suitable replacements on acceptable terms, the Company’s results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely affected. The Company also faces challenges relating to the impact of the disruption in the global financial markets on other parties with which the Company does business, such as vendors, retailers and film co-financing partners. The inability of these parties to obtain financing on acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to various negative effects on the Company, including business disruption, 34 Table of Contents decreased revenues, increases in bad debt write-offs and, in the case of film co-financing partners, greater risk with respect to the performance of the Company’s films. A sustained decline in the financial stability of these parties could have an adverse impact on Time Warner’s business and results of operations. Time Warner faces risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • economic volatility and the global economic slowdown; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising; • import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and language and cultural differences; • issues related to occupational safety and adherence to stringent local labor laws and regulations; • potentially adverse tax developments; • longer payment cycles; • political or social unrest; • seasonal volatility in business activity; • risks related to government regulation; • the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership; • the presence of corruption in certain countries; and • higher than anticipated costs of entry. One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s international operations and its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses face additional risks internationally. The Company could be at a competitive disadvantage in the long term if its businesses are not able to strengthen their positions and capitalize on international opportunities in growth economies and media sectors. International expansion involves significant investments as well as risks associated with doing business abroad, as described above. Furthermore, investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return and in some cases there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights. In addition, if the Company expands into new international regions, some of its businesses will have only limited experience in operating and marketing their products and services in certain regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience, particularly diversified media companies that are well established in some developing nations. Although the Company is seeking to expand in certain strategic international regions and is formulating strategies for the growth of diversified media businesses in developing nations, there can be no assurance that such strategies will succeed. The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing, Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. The Company’s Publishing and Networks segments derive a substantial portion of their revenue from advertising in magazines and on television. Distribution of news, entertainment and other information via the Internet has become increasingly popular over the past several years, and viewing news, entertainment and other content on a personal computer, cellular phone or other electronic or portable electronic device has become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift from traditional media to online media. The shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from traditional to online media has had an adverse effect on the revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which may continue in the future. This shift could also further intensify competition for advertising in traditional media, which could exert greater pressure on these segments to increase revenues from online advertising. In addition, if consumers increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment online instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s magazines, this trend could negatively impact the segment’s circulation revenue and also adversely affect its advertising revenue. The Publishing and Networks segments have taken 35 Table of Contents various steps to diversify the means by which they distribute content and generate advertising revenue, including increasing investments in Internet properties. However, the segments’ strategies for achieving sustained revenue growth may not be sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional to online media. In addition, this trend also could have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. Several of the Company’s businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological change, and if Time Warner does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. Time Warner’s businesses operate in the highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries. Several of its businesses are dependent to a large extent on their ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish their products and services from those of their competitors. Technological development, application and exploitation can take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. In addition, the Company may be required to anticipate far in advance which of the potential new technologies and equipment it should adopt for new products and services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to its existing products and services. If it chooses technologies or equipment that do not become the prevailing standard or that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if it offers products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or do not function as expected, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its operations, business or financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely affected by various timing factors, such as delays in its new product or service offerings or the ability of its competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than the Company. Furthermore, advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may require the Company in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services the Company currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. Also, if the costs of existing technologies decrease in the future, the Company may not be able to maintain current price levels for its products or services. In addition, the inability to obtain intellectual property rights from third parties at a reasonable price or at all could impair the ability of the Company to respond to technological advances in a timely or cost-effective manner. The combination of increased competition, more technologically-advanced platforms, products and services, the increasing number of choices available to consumers and the overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries requires companies such as Time Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt more quickly to market conditions than in the past. The Company could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability. The Company faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all of the Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers, and this competition may intensify further during economic downturns. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of news, information and entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, sports, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer. Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability. Piracy of motion pictures, television programming, video content, DVDs and interactive videogames poses significant challenges to several of the Company’s businesses. Technological advances allowing the 36 Table of Contents unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television programming and other content in unprotected digital formats, including via the Internet, increase the threat of piracy. Such technological advances make it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of such content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products or the products it licenses from third parties can have an adverse effect on its businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that Time Warner potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its content. In addition, if piracy continues to increase, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and profitability. Although piracy adversely affects the Company’s U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from outside the United States is more significant, particularly in countries where laws protective of intellectual property rights are insufficient or are not strictly enforced. Policing the unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is difficult, and the steps taken by the Company to combat piracy will not prevent the infringement by and/or piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful in reducing content piracy. Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and products and services used in its various operations. However, the Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which the Company operates, much of the business of its various segments relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and Time Warner may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible that, in connection with a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the Company may license its trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill to third parties, or the business of various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights. Recently, the number of patent infringement claims resulting in lawsuits, in particular against the technology-related businesses at AOL, has increased. The number of other intellectual property infringement claims also could increase in the future. Increased infringement claims and lawsuits could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require Time Warner to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company may require it to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could require the Company to expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results. The use of new technologies to distribute content on the Internet, including through Internet sites providing social networking and user-generated content, could put some of the Company’s businesses at an increased risk of allegations of copyright or trademark infringement or legal liability, as well as cause them to incur significant technical, legal or other costs and limit their ability to provide competitive content, features or tools. 37 Table of Contents Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and information systems or other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns or service disruptions caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s various businesses could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in the information technology systems and networks of the Company and third party vendors, including customer, personnel and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time Warner and its businesses and have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like Time Warner’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause these businesses to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt their business practices. The Company’s businesses that generate revenues from online activities and the sale of advertising inventory and related services are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as privacy, online gaming, consumer protection, data retention and data protection, content regulation, defamation, age verification, the use of “cookies” (such as software that allows for audience targeting and tracking of performance metrics), pricing, advertising to both children and adults, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, billing and real estate. The application of such laws and regulations to these businesses in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Further, the application of laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of the Company’s advertisers, including the distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content, tobacco or firearms, insurance and securities brokerage and legal services, can be unclear and is developing, especially with respect to the sale of these products and services on the Internet. Various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, such as the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which restricts the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. There have been additional federal and state legislative proposals for online child protection, including with respect to the ability of minors to access social networking services. The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses could incur substantial costs necessary to comply with these laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if they fail to comply with them. Compliance with these laws and regulations also could cause these businesses to change or limit their business practices in a manner that is adverse to the businesses. In addition, if there are changes in laws, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the Communications Decency Act, that provide protections that the Company’s Internet or advertising businesses rely on in conducting their businesses or if there are judicial interpretations narrowing the protections of these laws, it would subject these businesses to greater risk of liability and could increase their costs of compliance or limit their ability to operate certain lines of business. 38 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS AOL’s business model involves significant risks. AOL has transitioned from a business that has primarily focused on generating subscription revenues to one that is more focused on attracting and engaging Internet consumers. During the shift in its business model and on a continuing basis, AOL’s subscription revenues have been declining, and these declines in subscription revenues have not been offset by increases in advertising revenues. Subscription revenues will remain an important source of operating income before depreciation and amortization (or OIBDA) for AOL in 2009, and if subscribers to AOL’s Internet access service decline at a rate faster than anticipated, AOL’s ability to generate OIBDA in 2009 may be adversely affected. Following the transition, AOL has become more dependent on advertising revenues to maintain or improve its financial performance. Cost reductions need to be made in order to better align AOL’s costs with an advertising-supported business model, to maintain or improve its financial performance and to adjust to weakening economic conditions. However, identifying and implementing cost reductions is becoming increasingly difficult to do in an operationally effective manner and is leading to employee distraction and a decline in morale, as well as difficulty in hiring and retaining necessary employees. In addition, AOL is now more prone to the risks associated with operating an advertising business. Advertising revenues are more unpredictable and variable than subscription revenues and are more likely to be adversely affected during economic downturns. AOL’s advertising business has benefited from growth in online advertising, and if online advertising does not continue to grow, whether because of changing economic conditions or otherwise, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Weakening economic conditions or other factors could continue to reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to maintain or increase such revenues,” as well as the risks relating to AOL’s advertising business described below. Demand and pricing for, and volume sold of, online advertising may face downward pressure. During 2008, AOL experienced lower demand from a number of advertiser categories (e.g., the retail, financial services, and automotive industries), a higher proportion of sales made through lower-priced sales channels, and pricing declines in certain inventory segments. In order for advertising revenues to be maintained or increased in 2009 over 2008, AOL believes that it will be important to increase the overall volume of advertising sold, including sales of advertising through its higher-priced channels and to maintain or increase pricing for advertising. If overall demand continues to decline, if sales continue to trend towards lower-priced sales channels or if overall pricing declines occur, AOL’s advertising revenues, operating margins and its ability to generate OIBDA could be adversely affected. Uncertainty about a possible sale or other disposition of AOL is having an adverse impact on AOL’s workforce that could negatively affect AOL’s business. In 2008, the Company began a strategic review of its ownership of AOL. The uncertainty regarding AOL’s ownership status has had an adverse impact on employee morale and AOL’s ability to attract and retain employees and thus may adversely impact AOL’s ability to implement its business strategy, as well as its advertising relationships and its ability to operate effectively or efficiently. AOL’s lack of a proprietary search service may have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising revenues. Unlike its key competitors for search advertising revenues, AOL does not own or control a search service and instead relies on Google to provide search services. As a result, AOL is not able to package and sell search advertising along with display advertising services outside the AOL Network and certain Time Warner digital properties. As search advertising represents a significant portion of online advertising spending, AOL believes that its lack of a proprietary search service may have an adverse impact on its ability to generate and increase advertising revenues. AOL faces risks associated with its dependence upon Google for search services. Google is the exclusive unpaid and paid web search provider for substantially all of the AOL Network and AOL’s products. In 2008, search advertising revenues comprised approximately one-third of AOL’s total advertising revenues and was the only category of AOL’s advertising revenues that grew year-over-year. Changes that Google has made and may unilaterally make in the future to its paid search service or advertising network, including changes in pricing, algorithms or advertising relationships, could have a significant negative impact on AOL’s advertising revenues. Furthermore, AOL has agreed to use Google’s algorithmic search and sponsored links on an exclusive basis through December 19, 2010. Upon expiration of this agreement, there can be no assurance that if the agreement is renewed, 39 Table of Contents AOL would receive the same or a higher revenue share as it does under the current agreement, nor can there be any assurance that if AOL enters into an arrangement with an alternative search provider, the terms would be as favorable as those under the current Google agreement. AOL faces intense competition in all aspects of its business. The Internet is dynamic and rapidly evolving, and new and popular competitors, such as social networking sites, frequently emerge. Although AOL acquired Bebo, Inc. in 2008, Bebo faces strong competition from bigger and more established social networking sites. Competition among companies offering advertising products, technology and services and aggregators of third-party advertising inventory, advertising products, technology and services is intense and may contribute to continuing decreases in prices for certain advertising inventory that would negatively affect AOL’s Platform-A business unit. As AOL expands internationally, it will face intense competition from both global and local competitors. In addition, competition generally may cause AOL to incur unanticipated costs associated with research and product development. The competition faced by AOL’s Access Services business, especially from broadband access providers, could cause the number of AOL subscribers to decline at a faster rate than experienced in the past. There can be no assurance that AOL will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations. Following the sales of AOL’s Access Services businesses in Europe, AOL depends on third parties for advertising revenues in Europe, and actions taken by such third parties could adversely impact AOL’s advertising revenues. AOL has sold to third parties its access businesses, including its subscriber relationships, in the U.K., France and Germany. AOL depends on the current owners of these businesses and its relationships with its former subscribers to generate advertising revenues in these countries. AOL provides to the owners of its former access businesses varying levels of programming and advertising services and receives a portion of advertising revenues generated from certain activities. If one or more of these agreements is terminated by these third party or these parties take actions that impact AOL’s relationships with its former subscribers, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. Changes to third-party software made by the third-party providers or by consumers could have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising business. AOL’s advertising business is dependent upon third-party software, such as browsers, in order for advertising to be delivered, rendered, measured and reported, and changes made by the third parties or consumers to functionality, features or settings within this software could have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising business. Also, other third party software may be used to block advertisements or delete cookies, and the widespread adoption and use of such software may have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising business. AOL faces risks associated with the fragmentation of the Internet audience. Consumers are fragmenting across the Internet, away from portals, such as AOL.com and Yahoo!, and migrating towards social networks and niche websites. AOL has continued to acquire other companies, products and technologies and to purchase or develop content, applications, features and tools designed to attract and engage Internet consumers to address this fragmentation. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will result in an increased number of consumers or increased engagement by Internet consumers on the AOL Network. Furthermore, as Internet consumers continue to fragment, advertisers could increasingly seek to purchase advertising from third-party advertising networks or directly on niche sites, which could benefit the Platform-A business unit but could adversely impact the advertising revenue generated on the AOL Network. If AOL does not continue to develop and offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. In order to attract Internet consumers and generate increased activity on the AOL Network, AOL believes that it must offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services. However, acquiring, developing and offering such content, products and services may require significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If AOL is unable to provide content, products and services that are sufficiently attractive to its current and former subscribers and other Internet consumers, AOL may not be able to generate the increases in activity on the AOL Network necessary to generate increased paid-search and display advertising revenues. In addition, although AOL has access to certain content provided by the Company’s other businesses, it may be required to make substantial payments to license such content. Many of AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. If AOL is unable to acquire or develop 40 Table of Contents compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is similar to that provided by AOL, AOL may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of Internet consumers on the AOL Network. Even if AOL successfully develops and offers compelling and differentiated content, products and services, AOL’s advertising revenues may not increase. Continued growth in AOL’s advertising business also depends on the ability of the Platform-A business unit to continue offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and services for advertisers and publishers and its ability to maintain or increase prices for its advertising products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and costs. If the Platform-A business unit cannot continue to develop and improve its advertising products and services or if prices for its advertising products and services decrease, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. If AOL cannot effectively distribute its content, products and services, AOL may not be able to attract new Internet consumers or maintain or increase the engagement of Internet consumers and may not be able to increase advertising revenues. Distribution of AOL’s content, products and services is subject to significant competition. Furthermore, as the Internet audience continues to fragment and traffic continues to gravitate away from the Internet portals, distribution of AOL’s content, products and services via traditional methods may become less effective, and new distribution strategies may need to be developed. Even if AOL is able to effectively distribute its content, products and services, this does not assure that AOL will be able to attract new Internet consumers and maintain or increase the engagement of Internet consumers on the AOL Network. For example, consumers may choose not to access or utilize the AOL content, products or services even if they are made available to them. Accordingly, even if AOL is able to effectively distribute its content, products and services, AOL’s advertising revenues may not increase. Unless AOL increases the number of visitors to the AOL Network and maintains or increases their activity in areas where advertising revenues are generated, and even if it succeeds in doing so, AOL may not be able to increase advertising revenues associated with the AOL Network. In general, current and former subscribers are significantly more active on the AOL Network than other visitors to the AOL Network. As the number of AOL’s subscribers declines, AOL’s ability to maintain or increase advertising revenues may be adversely impacted unless the former subscribers are as active on the AOL Network after terminating their paid Internet access relationship with AOL as they were previously. In addition, AOL needs to increase the number of visitors, whether or not current or former subscribers, to the AOL Network and maintain or increase overall usage in order to continue to increase advertising revenues associated with the AOL Network. Furthermore, different online activities generate different volumes of advertising, sold at differing prices. It will be important that new visitors to the AOL Network be active on those properties that generate generally higher priced and higher volumes of advertising, leading to greater advertising revenues, and that as subscribers migrate to become unpaid accounts, their activity on the AOL Network continues in a manner similar to their activity before such migration. Even if the number of visitors to the AOL Network increases and even if their activity increases in areas where advertising revenues are generated, AOL’s advertising revenues may not increase. More individuals are using devices other than personal and laptop computers to access and use the Internet, and if AOL cannot make its content, products and services available and attractive to consumers via these alternative devices, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. Individuals increasingly are accessing and using the Internet through devices other than a personal or laptop computer, such as personal digital assistants or mobile telephones, which differ from computers with respect to memory, functionality, resolution and screen size. In order for consumers to access and use AOL’s content, products and services via these alternative devices, AOL must ensure that its content, products and services are technologically compatible with such devices. AOL also needs to secure arrangements with device manufacturers and wireless carriers in order to have desktop placement on the alternative devices and to more effectively reach consumers. If AOL cannot effectively make its content, products and services available on alternative devices, fewer Internet consumers may access and use AOL’s content, products and services. Also, the Platform-A business unit must be able to compose, package, and deliver compelling advertising on alternative devices, and the advertising revenue it generates may be negatively affected if it is not able to effectively do so. Acquisitions of other companies could have an adverse impact on AOL’s operations and result in unanticipated liabilities. During 2007 and 2008, AOL acquired 14 companies and may make additional 41 Table of Contents acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. If AOL does not effectively integrate the operations and systems of Bebo, Inc. and the Platform-A companies (including Perfiliate Limited (doing business as buy. at), ADTECH, Quigo Technologies LLC and TACODA LLC), it could negatively affect AOL’s ability to compete effectively and increase advertising revenues. The completion of acquisitions and strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses involve a substantial commitment of resources. In addition, past or future transactions may be accompanied by a number of risks, including: • the uncertainty of AOL’s returns on investment due to the new and developing industries (e.g., mobile advertising) in which some of the acquired companies operate; • the adverse impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities, such as claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, associated with the companies acquired or in which AOL invests; • the difficulty of integrating technology, administrative systems, personnel and operations of acquired companies into AOL’s services, systems and operations and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • potential loss of key talent at acquired companies; • the potential disruption of AOL’s on-going business and distraction of its management; • additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses AOL acquires or in which it invests and the failure of such businesses to perform as expected; • the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • the difficulty of reconciling possibly conflicting or overlapping contractual rights and duties; and • the impairment of relationships with customers, partners and employees as a result of the combination of acquired operations and new management personnel. The failure to successfully address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and strategic investments could cause AOL to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions and incur unanticipated liabilities and could harm its business and operating results. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of AOL’s business. A variety of federal, state and international laws govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data that AOL uses to operate its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could adversely impact AOL’s advertising revenues. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or requirements or with AOL’s own policies and procedures could result in significant liabilities, including a possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers or advertisers. RISKS RELATING TO THE TWC SEPARATION AND TIME WARNER’S CABLE BUSINESS The Company may not achieve some or all of the benefits that it expects from the Separation. Time Warner believes that the Separation will result in several benefits to the Company, including increased long-term strategic, financial, operational and regulatory flexibility, a more efficient capital structure, a corporate structure that will better enable management to focus on Time Warner’s content and other businesses and further enhancement of the efficacy of equity incentives granted to management of those businesses. Similarly, TWC believes that the Separation will result in several benefits to TWC, including increased long-term strategic, operational and regulatory flexibility and a more efficient capital structure. The Company cannot predict with certainty when these benefits will occur or the extent to which they actually will be achieved, if at all. Furthermore, even if some or all of these benefits are achieved, they may not result in the creation of value for Time Warner and TWC stockholders. After the Separation, Time Warner’s businesses will be less diversified, which may adversely affect its business and operating results. After the Separation is completed, Time Warner will have a different operational and financial profile. Time Warner’s current diversification of revenue sources, resulting from TWC’s businesses 42 Table of Contents together with the Company’s other businesses, tends to moderate operational volatility. The substantial majority of the revenues currently generated by TWC are subscription revenues. Certain of the Company’s divisions other than TWC derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising and content. Due to a number of factors, advertising and content revenues are generally more variable and less predictable than subscription revenues. Following the Separation, the Company will have less diversification of revenue sources, and, as a result, Time Warner’s results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility. In addition, all of TWC’s operations are domestic, while Time Warner’s other divisions operate and serve customers worldwide. After the Separation, Time Warner’s exposure to the risks related to doing business internationally will increase proportionately. These risks include, among other things, economic volatility, currency exchange rate fluctuations and risks related to government regulation. One or more of these risks could adversely affect the Company’s international operations and its overall business and operating results. TWC has incurred a substantial amount of debt, which may limit its flexibility or prevent it from taking advantage of business opportunities. In connection with the Separation, TWC incurred $7.0 billion of indebtedness pursuant to two public offerings of senior unsecured notes and debentures completed in 2008 to fund, in part, the Special Dividend and is expected to incur additional indebtedness to fund the Special Dividend and expenses related to the Separation Transactions through a combination of borrowings under TWC’s bridge facility, additional financing in the public debt markets and/or borrowings under TWC’s revolving credit facility. The increased indebtedness and the terms of TWC’s financing arrangements and any future indebtedness will impose various restrictions on TWC that could limit its ability to respond to market conditions, provide for its capital investment needs or take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, as a result of TWC’s increased borrowings, its interest expense will be higher than it has been in the past, which will affect TWC’s profitability and cash flows. If the TWC Separation Transactions are determined to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner and Time Warner’s stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal, state or local income tax could incur significant income tax liabilities. The TWC Separation Transactions are conditioned upon Time Warner’s receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and opinions of tax counsel confirming that the TWC Separation Transactions should generally qualify as tax-free to Time Warner and its stockholders. The ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Time Warner and TWC regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling and opinions, the IRS or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) could determine on audit that the TWC Separation Transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if the Tax Authority determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in the stock ownership of Time Warner or TWC after the Distribution. Under the tax sharing agreement among Time Warner and TWC, TWC generally would be required to indemnify Time Warner against its taxes resulting from the failure of any of the TWC Separation Transactions to qualify as tax-free (“Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of certain representations to be made by TWC to be true. However, in the event that Transaction Taxes are incurred for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled to indemnification. In addition, due to the potential impact of significant stock ownership changes on the taxability of the TWC Separation Transactions, Time Warner and TWC may determine not to enter into transactions that might otherwise be advantageous, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, if such issuances would exceed certain thresholds and such actions could be considered part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the Distribution. The Tax Authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions or the Exchange, or related valuations, and any successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile, significantly increase its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, 43 Table of Contents the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Tax Authorities will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or the related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile (including its ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from these transactions), significantly increase its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results. TWC’s industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, high-speed data or voice services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues, reduce the number of its subscribers or reduce its ability to increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced services, it may be subject to competition from other providers of those services, such as telecommunications providers, Internet service providers and consumer electronics companies, among others. In addition, future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, in the economy and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. TWC cannot predict the extent to which competition will affect its future business and financial results or return on capital expenditures. Significant unanticipated increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could negatively impact customer demand for TWC’s video services and increase TWC’s costs. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for TWC’s video and high-speed data businesses. Examples of such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download. Increasingly, content owners are delivering content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charging a fee for access to the content. The increasing availability of free content over the Internet could negatively impact customer demand for TWC’s video services, especially premium and On-Demand services, and could result in content owners seeking higher license fees from TWC in order to subsidize such free distribution. In addition, if heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers may have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s high-speed data service. Also, in order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands and manage bandwidth usage efficiently. TWC’s ability to do these things could be restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government has extended some regulation to high-speed data service and is considering additional regulations. TWC is also subject to regulation of its video services relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming levels and types of services, taxes and other charges. Modification to existing regulations or the imposition of new regulations could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. If the United States Congress (“Congress”) or regulators were to disallow the use of certain technologies TWC uses today or to mandate the implementation of other technologies, TWC’s services and results of operations could suffer. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, high-speed data and voice services under the 44 Table of Contents Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations in various areas, including: • Carriage Regulations. The FCC’s “must carry” rules require TWC to carry some local broadcast television signals on some of its cable systems that it might not otherwise carry. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the “must carry” rules, such as to require carriage of multicast streams, TWC would be forced to carry video programming that it would not otherwise carry and potentially to drop other, more popular programming in order to free capacity for the required programming, which could make TWC less competitive. The FCC’s “program carriage” rules restrict cable operators and MVPDs from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming vendor to compete fairly by discriminating against the programming vendor on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC has launched a proceeding to examine its substantive and procedural rules for program carriage. TWC is unable to predict whether such proceeding will lead to any material changes in existing regulations. Any change in the existing carriage regulations or successful program carriage complaints could restrict TWC’s ability to select programming that is attractive to its subscribers. • Voice Services. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant regulations. It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or other regulations) apply to providers of interconnected Voice over IP (“VoIP”) services, including TWC’s. In orders over the past several years, the FCC subjected interconnected VoIP service providers to a number of obligations applicable to traditional voice service. To the extent that the FCC (or Congress) imposes additional burdens on such providers, TWC’s operations could be adversely affected. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably and manage its broadband facilities efficiently to respond to growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to effectively manage or operate their broadband networks. Proponents of “net neutrality” advocate a variety of regulations, including regulations that prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers, require absolute nondiscrimination for any Internet traffic and require forms of “open access.” The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continue to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands and to manage bandwidth usage efficiently. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could adversely impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability to compete effectively. If TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV technology, it may be forced to make costly upgrades to its system in order to remain competitive. As of December 31, 2008, TWC had deployed switched digital video, or SDV, technology to approximately 5.2 million digital video subscribers. SDV technology allows TWC to save bandwidth by transmitting particular programming services only to groups of homes or nodes where subscribers are viewing the programming at a particular time rather than broadcasting it to all subscriber homes. The FCC may interpret existing regulation or introduce new regulation to restrict cable operators’ ability to use SDV technology. If TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV technology, TWC may have difficulty carrying the volume of HDTV channels and other bandwidth-intensive traffic carried by competitors and may be forced to make costly upgrades to its systems in order to remain competitive. Increases in programming or retransmission costs or an inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to increase, primarily due to the increasing cost of obtaining desirable programming, particularly broadcast and sports programming. TWC’s video service margins have declined in recent years and will continue to decline over the next few years as cable programming and broadcast station retransmission consent cost increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, providers of desirable content may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms. In 45 Table of Contents addition, owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact TWC’s subscription and advertising revenues. TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its offerings to commercial customers. TWC has sold video, high-speed data and network and transport services to businesses for some time and in 2007 introduced an IP-based telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations, the growth of its commercial services business may be limited. In addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to successfully attract and retain commercial customers, its growth, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and standards and changes in consumer behavior to remain competitive and continue to increase their revenue. Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment industry continues to evolve rapidly, and advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, new video formats and distribution via the Internet and cellular networks, have led to alternative methods of product delivery and storage. Certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, devices that allow users to view television programs or motion pictures from a remote location or to stream or download such programming from third parties may cause changes in consumer behavior that could negatively affect the subscription revenue of cable system and direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, operators and telephone companies and therefore have a corresponding negative effect on the subscription revenue generated by the Networks segment and the licensing revenue generated by the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Also, content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charge, and consumer electronics innovations have enabled consumers to watch such Internet-delivered content on television sets, which could have a similar negative effect on the segments’ revenue. In addition, devices such as digital video recorders, or DVRs, that enable users to view television programs or motion pictures on a time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip advertisements or network-based deployments of DVR-like technology may cause changes in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the advertising revenue of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. In addition, further increased use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choice, at a time of their choice, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect such advertising and licensing revenue. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must continue to adapt their content to changing viewership habits in order to remain competitive. If they cannot adapt to the changing lifestyles and preferences of consumers and capitalize on technological advances with favorable business models, it could have a negative impact on their businesses. Technological developments also pose other challenges for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are developed. In addition, technological developments that enable third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home Box Office, and deal directly with cable system and other content distributors could place limitations on the ability of the segments to distribute their content that could have an adverse impact on their revenue. Cable system and DBS operators are developing new techniques that enable them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially furthering the development of 46 Table of Contents more specialized niche audiences. A greater number of options increases competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may improve their competitive position compared to the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments for television advertising and for subscription and licensing revenue. In addition, traditional audience measures have evolved with emerging technologies that can measure viewing audiences with improved sensitivity, which has resulted in changes to the basis for pricing and guaranteeing the advertising contracts of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment. There may be future technical and marketplace developments that will result in new audience measurements that may be used as the basis for the pricing and guaranteeing of such advertising. Any significant decrease in measured audiences for advertising on the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment could have a significant negative impact on the advertising revenue of such networks and the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment as well as the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and consumer preferences on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to continue to grow and increase their revenue. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in highly competitive industries. The Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses generate revenue primarily through the production and distribution of feature films, television programming, home video products and interactive videogames, licensing fees, the sale of advertising and subscriber fees paid by affiliates. Competition faced by the businesses within these segments is intense and comes from many different sources. The ability of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to provide high-quality and popular entertainment product, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. There has been consolidation in the media industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry participants with interests in other multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated. Such vertical integration could have various negative effects on the competitive position of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, vertical integration of other television networks and television and film production companies could adversely impact the Networks segment if it hinders the ability of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks. In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase their programming from production companies with which they are affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing revenue and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. There can be no assurance that the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on their businesses or results of operations. Although piracy poses risks to several of Time Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the prevalence of piracy of feature films, television programming and interactive videogames. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability.” The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject to labor interruption. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, technicians, trade employees and others involved in the development and production of motion pictures and television programs who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. If the segments and their suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take actions in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions would cause delays in the production or the release dates of the segments’ feature films and television programs, as well as result in higher costs either from such actions or less favorable terms of the applicable agreements on renewal. Even if the affected unions do not take such actions, the inability to renew expiring agreements and the possibility that a strike, work slowdown or work stoppage may occur could cause delays in the production or release dates of films and television programs. As of February 19, 2009, The Screen Actors Guild (“SAG”), which covers performers in feature films and filmed television programs, and the producers of such content had not reached an agreement on contracts that expired on June 30, 2008. Productions have been delayed to avoid costly shutdowns due to the potential of a SAG strike, and, if 47 Table of Contents an agreement is not reached or SAG goes on strike, it will cause further delays in production and consequently the release dates of the segments’ feature films and television programs, as well as higher costs resulting either from such actions or less favorable terms contained in the applicable agreements on renewal. The agreements between the producers and the American Federation of Musicians (the “AFM”) expire on February 25, 2009, and the status of negotiations with SAG could adversely affect negotiations with the AFM. The popularity of the Company’s television programs, films and interactive videogames and other factors are difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Television program, film and interactive videogame production and distribution are inherently risky businesses largely because the revenue derived from the production and distribution of a television program, motion picture or videogame, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with a program, film or videogame, depends primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television program, feature film or interactive videogame also depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing programs, films and videogames released at or near the same time, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are also factors that are weighed when determining their advertising rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertiser demand. Further, the theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay television programming services, and sales of interactive videogames and licensed consumer products. Therefore, low public acceptance of the television programs, feature films or interactive videogames of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may adversely affect their respective results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors, including weakening economic conditions, the deteriorating financial condition of major retailers, the maturation of the DVD format, increasing competition for consumer discretionary spending and leisure time, piracy and increased competition for retailer shelf space, are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally. The high definition format war between the HD DVD and Blu-ray formats ended in February 2008 with Toshiba Corporation’s announcement of its decision to discontinue its HD DVD businesses; however, reduced consumer discretionary spending in a challenging economic environment, may slow widespread adoption of the Blu-ray format or lead consumers to forego adopting a high definition DVD format altogether, which would adversely affect DVD sales. DVD sales also may be negatively affected as consumers increasingly shift from consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of entertainment. The filmed entertainment industry faces a challenge in managing the transition from physical to electronic formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD business and its relationships with large retail customers and yet meets the growing consumer demand for delivery of filmed entertainment in a variety of electronic formats. There can be no assurance that home video wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing, digital competition and other factors. In addition, in the event of a protracted economic downturn, reduced consumer discretionary spending could lead to further declines in DVD sales. A continuing decline in DVD sales could have an adverse impact on the segment’s growth prospects and results of operations. The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes the release of a limited number of “event” films each year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s results of operations and financial condition. The Filmed Entertainment segment expects to theatrically release a limited number of feature films each year that are expected to be “event” or “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher production and marketing costs than the other films released during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box office success and international box office success, as well as a correlation between box office success and success in the subsequent distribution channels of home video and television. If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office 48 Table of Contents success, the results of operations and financial condition of the Filmed Entertainment segment could be adversely affected. Further, there can be no assurance that these historical correlations will continue in the future. A decrease in demand for television product could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the number of original programs ordered by the networks and the per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near term. In addition, such a decrease in demand could lead to a reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and vertical integration between station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical integration between television production studios and broadcast networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the failure of ratings for the programming to meet expectations and the shift of viewers and advertisers away from network television to other entertainment and information outlets could adversely affect the amount of original programming ordered by networks and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming. Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an accompanying loss of advertising revenue as viewers move to other entertainment outlets, which may negatively impact the segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the increasing popularity of local television content in international markets also could result in decreased demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and syndication revenue for U.S. television content. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The production and marketing of feature films require substantial capital, and the costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. As production and marketing costs increase, it creates a greater need to generate revenue internationally or from other media, such as home video, television and new media. Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the amortization of film production costs. The Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenue from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and further consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors could adversely affect the segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliation agreements with cable system and DBS operators and telephone companies for the distribution of its networks and services, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of any one of these arrangements representing a significant number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenue. The loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor of the segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenue. In addition, further consolidation among cable system and DBS operators has provided greater negotiating power to such distributors, and increased vertical integration of such distributors 49 Table of Contents could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its networks and services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to popular programming or create popular original programming could adversely affect the segment’s revenue. The Networks segment obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed programming, including sports programming, is made available based on programming rights of varying durations that it has negotiated with third parties. Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, may create their own networks. The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability to develop strong brand awareness and target key audience demographics, as well as its ability to continue to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Networks segment derives a portion of its revenue from the exploitation of the Company’s library of feature films, animated titles and television titles. If the content of the Company’s programming libraries ceases to be of interest to audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular original content, the revenue of the Networks segment could be adversely affected. Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the Networks segment. As described above, the Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. For example, the Turner networks have obtained the rights to produce and broadcast significant sports events, such as the NBA play-offs, the Major League Baseball play-offs and a series of NASCAR races. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds the amount of quality content available, the networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased costs with higher advertising and/or subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be adversely affected. The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs costs for new programming concepts and various types of creative talent, including actors, writers and producers. The segment incurs additional significant costs, such as newsgathering and marketing costs. Unless they are offset by increased revenue, increases in the costs of creative talent or in production, newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to decreased profits at the Networks segment. The maturity of the U.S. video services business, together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely affect the future revenue growth of the Networks segment. The U.S. video services business generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact on the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance to wholesale programming price increases, and programming distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other than video, such as high-speed data and voice services. Also, consumers’ basic video service rates have continued to increase, which could cause consumers to cancel their video service subscriptions or reduce the number of services they subscribe to, and the risk of this occurring may be greater during economic slowdowns. The inability of the Networks segment to implement measures to maintain future revenue growth may adversely affect its business. Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of the Networks segment. The multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States, as well as cable networks, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered 50 Table of Contents by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of the Networks segment. For example, there has been consideration of the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter enforcement of existing laws and rules. If such an extension or attempt to increase enforcement occurred and were upheld, the content of the Networks segment could be subject to additional regulation, which could increase the segment’s operating costs and negatively affect subscriber and viewership levels. Moreover, the determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content would violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and results of operations of the Networks segment. Policymakers have also raised concerns about violence in television programming, as well as the potential impact on childhood obesity rates of food and beverage advertising during children’s television programming. The Networks segment is unable to predict whether any new or revised regulations will result from these various activities. In June 2008, the FCC initiated a proceeding to examine the use of product placement and integration in television programming. The FCC has sought comment on whether to enhance its existing sponsorship identification disclosure rules, extend such rules to cable networks and expressly prohibit the use of paid product placement or integration in children’s television programming. Extension of the sponsorship identification disclosure rules, particularly enhanced rules, to the Networks segment could impose additional costs on the segment and inhibit its flexibility in using paid product placement or integration in connection with certain types of programming content. The Networks segment is unable to predict whether any new or revised regulations will result from this proceeding. Policymakers have also expressed interest in exploring whether cable operators should offer “à la carte” programming to subscribers on a network-by-network basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers, and a number of cable operators, including TWC, have voluntarily agreed to offer family tiers. The FCC also is examining the manner in which some programming distributors package or bundle services sold to distributors; the same conduct is at issue in industry-wide antitrust litigation pending in Federal court in Los Angeles, in which the plaintiffs seek to prohibit wholesale bundling practices prospectively. The unbundling or tiering of program services may reduce the distribution of certain cable networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and may affect the segment’s ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. Declining DVD sales poses risks to the Networks segment. The Networks segment generates a portion of its revenues through the sale of its content on DVDs, and a continuing decline in DVD sales could have a negative impact on the segment’s growth prospects and results of operations. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner’s Filmed Entertainment Business – DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and results of operations.” RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS Although weakening economic conditions pose risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s revenue is derived from the sale of print and digital advertising, both of which have been negatively affected by such conditions. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Weakening economic conditions or other factors could continue to reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such revenues.” Poor economic conditions have had a negative impact on print advertising spending, and this spending may not rebound when economic conditions improve or it may take several years for such a rebound to occur. The industry-wide slowdown in digital display advertising expenditures could continue to adversely affect the segment’s ability to increase digital advertising revenues. In addition, weakening economic conditions could reduce consumer expenditures, which could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s subscription revenues. 51 Table of Contents The Publishing segment could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the wholesaler distribution channel. The Publishing segment operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute its magazines to newsstands and other retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible for a substantial percentage of the wholesale magazine distribution business in the U.S. Recently, there has been significantly increased instability in the wholesaler channel that has led to one major wholesaler leaving the business and to certain disruptions to magazine distribution. There is the possibility of further consolidation among these major wholesalers and insolvency of or non-payment by one or more of these wholesalers, especially in light of the economic climate and its impact on retailers. Distribution channel disruptions can temporarily impede the Publishing segment’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could, among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers. Continued disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in wholesaler costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts due could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income or cash flow. Although the shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media poses risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s revenue is derived from the sale of advertising. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing, Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments.” The Publishing segment faces significant competition for advertising and audience. The Publishing segment faces significant competition from several direct competitors and other media, including the Internet. Additional competitors may enter the website publishing business and further intensify competition, which could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenue. Competition for print advertising expenditures has intensified in recent years as advertising spending has increasingly shifted from traditional to digital media, and this competition has intensified even further due to difficult economic conditions. There can be no assurance that the Publishing segment will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations. The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various regulatory and legislative matters, including possible changes in Audit Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in legislation or regulation of direct marketing. The Publishing segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy), and the FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule. Other statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data security, product safety and telemarketing. New statutes and regulations are adopted frequently. A number of states have recently proposed “Do Not Mail” legislation, similar to Federal “Do Not Call” legislation, which would allow consumers to register their names on a list and not receive direct mail. If such bills are passed, the potential impact on Time Inc.’s circulation and other business conducted via direct mail could be significant. In addition, the Publishing segment’s magazine subscription activities are subject to the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations. New rules, as well as new interpretations of existing rules, are periodically adopted by the Audit Bureau of Circulations and could lead to changes in the segment’s magazine circulation practices that could have a negative effect on the segment’s ability to generate new magazine subscriptions, meet rate bases and support advertising sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 52 Table of Contents 