Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY Pending securities litigation or the failure to fulfill the obligations under the Consent Order with the Securities and Exchange Commission could adversely affect Time Warner’s operations. In connection with the Company’s settlement with the SEC, the Company consented to the entry of a Consent Order requiring it to comply with federal securities laws and regulations and the terms of an earlier order. If the Company is found to be in violation of the Consent Order, it may be subject to increased penalties and consequences as a result of the prior actions. During 2002 and 2003, many putative class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits alleging violations of federal and state securities laws and ERISA, as well as purported breaches of fiduciary duties, were filed against Time Warner, certain of its current and former executives, past and present members of its Board of Directors and, in 29 Table of Contents certain instances, AOL. In addition, several actions alleging various securities law violations were filed by individual shareholders in state and federal court. During 2005 and 2006, the Company reached agreements to settle the primary consolidated securities class action lawsuits, the shareholder derivative lawsuits and the consolidated action alleging ERISA violations, as well as many of the lawsuits brought by individual shareholders. However, some members of the class elected to “opt out” of the settlement of the primary securities class action to pursue their claims separately. In addition, some of the individual shareholder actions remain pending in federal and state courts. In 2005, the Company established a reserve aggregating $3 billion, with $2.4 billion for the settlement of the primary consolidated securities class actions and $600 million in connection with the remaining shareholder derivative, ERISA and securities matters (including suits brought by individual shareholders who decided to “opt out” of the settlement in the primary securities class action). The $3 billion reserve had been substantially utilized to settle certain of these claims, and in the fourth quarter of 2006 the Company established an additional reserve of $600 million related to its remaining securities litigation matters. During February 2007 the Company reached agreements in principle to pay approximately $405 million to settle certain of the remaining “opt out” claims. Plaintiffs have claimed approximately $3 billion in aggregated damages with interest in the remaining cases. The Company has engaged in, and may in the future engage in, mediation in an attempt to resolve the remaining cases, but if they cannot be resolved by adjudication on summary judgment or by settlement, trials will ensue in these matters. Although the Company intends to defend against these lawsuits vigorously, the ultimate amount that may be paid to resolve all unsettled litigation in these matters could be materially greater than the remaining reserve of approximately $215 million. The Company also is incurring expenses as a result of the pending “opt out” cases and individual securities actions, and costs associated with judgments in or additional settlements of these matters could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings — Securities Matters.” Several of the Company’s businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, and if Time Warner does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. Time Warner’s businesses operate in the highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries. Several of its businesses are dependent to a large extent on their ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish their products and services from those of their competitors. Technological development, application and exploitation can take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. In addition, the Company may be required to anticipate far in advance which of the potential new technologies and equipment it should adopt for new products and services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to its existing products and services. If it chooses technologies or equipment that do not become the prevailing standard or that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if it offers products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or do not function as expected, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its operations, business or financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely affected by various timing factors, such as delays in its new product or service offerings or the ability of its competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than the Company. Furthermore, advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may require the Company in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services the Company currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. Also, if the costs of existing technologies decrease in the future, the Company may not be able to maintain current price levels for its products or services. In addition, the inability to obtain intellectual property rights from third parties at a reasonable price or at all could impair the ability of the Company to respond to technological advances in a timely or cost-effective manner. The combination of increased competition, more technologically-advanced platforms, products and services, the increasing number of choices available to consumers and the overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries requires companies such as Time Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt more quickly to market conditions than had been necessary in the past. The Company 30 Table of Contents could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability. Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability. Piracy of motion pictures, television programming, video content and DVDs poses significant challenges to several of the Company’s businesses. Technological advances allowing the unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television programming and other content in unprotected digital formats, including via the Internet, increase the threat of piracy. Such technological advances make it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of such content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products or the products it licenses from third parties can have an adverse effect on its businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that Time Warner potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its content. In addition, if piracy continues to increase, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and profitability. Although piracy adversely affects the Company’s U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from outside the United States is more significant, particularly in countries where laws protective of intellectual property rights are not strictly enforced. Time Warner has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy, both individually and together with cross-industry groups, trade associations and strategic partners, including the launch of new services for consumers at competitive price points, aggressive online and customs enforcement, compressed release windows and educational campaigns. Policing the unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is difficult, however, and the steps taken by the Company will not prevent the infringement by and/or piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful in reducing content piracy. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims could increase in the future. Claims of intellectual property infringement could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require Time Warner to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company may require it to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could require the Company to expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business or operating results. Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and products and services used in its various operations. However, the Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which the Company operates, much of the business of its various segments relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and Time Warner may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible that, in connection with a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the Company may license its trademarks or service marks 31 Table of Contents and associated goodwill to third parties, or the business of various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction. Time Warner’s international operations are subject to increased risks that could adversely affect its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and language and cultural differences; • stringent local labor laws and regulations; • longer payment cycles; • political or social unrest; • economic instability; • seasonal volatility in business activity; • risks related to government regulation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s future international operations and consequently, could harm its business and operating results. Weakening economic conditions or other factors could reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such revenues. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Because several of the Company’s segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical industries, represent a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by the Company are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions or outlook could reduce the consumption of such products and services and reduce the Company’s revenues. The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing, Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. The Company’s Publishing and Networks segments derive a substantial portion of their revenue from advertising in magazines and on television. Distribution of news, entertainment and other information via the Internet has become increasingly popular over the past several years, and viewing news, entertainment and other content on a personal computer, cellular phone or other electronic or portable electronic device has become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift from traditional media to online media. The shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from traditional to online media has had an adverse effect on the revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which may continue in the future. In addition, if consumers increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment online instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s magazines, this trend could negatively impact the segment’s circulation revenue and also adversely affect its advertising revenue. The Publishing and Networks segments have taken various steps to diversify the means by which they distribute content and generate advertising revenue, including relaunching 32 Table of Contents certain websites and expanding their existing online content. However, the segments’ strategies for achieving sustained revenue growth may not be sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional to online media. In addition, this trend also could have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable channels. The Company faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all of the Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of news, information and entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer. Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and information systems or other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s various businesses could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in the Company’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time Warner and its businesses and have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like Time Warner’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS If AOL’s business strategy does not succeed in sustaining current levels of activity generated on AOL’s interactive properties by current AOL subscribers and increasing the number of other Internet users and the level of activity they generate on AOL’s interactive properties, AOL’s business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely impacted. In the third quarter of 2006, AOL began implementing a new phase of its business strategy to shift from a primarily subscription-based business model to a primarily advertising-supported business model. In 2006, subscription revenues represented approximately 74% of AOL’s total revenues, and 33 Table of Contents advertising revenues represented approximately 24% of AOL’s total revenues. The success of AOL’s strategy depends on AOL’s ability to sustain current levels of activity generated on AOL’s interactive properties, whether accessed via the AOL client software or directly through the Internet, by current AOL access subscribers and its ability to increase the number of other Internet users and the level of activity they generate on AOL’s interactive properties. As part of its business strategy, AOL is offering a “free” Internet service that was previously only available on a subscription basis; this “free” offer has contributed to declines in the number of access subscribers and related subscription revenues, and such declines are expected to continue. Before the implementation of the new phase of its business strategy, AOL maintained greater distinctions between its subscription service (the AOL service) and its free interactive properties. A significant component of the new phase of its business strategy includes AOL providing content, features and tools, previously available only to access subscribers, to all Internet consumers at no charge, including the AOL client software, “AOL.com” e-mail addresses and certain safety and security tools. Certain components of the AOL service continue to be available only to subscribers, such as dial-up Internet access and live customer service. AOL is experiencing declines in the number of subscribers and related subscription revenues, and expects that subscribers and related subscription revenues will decline further as consumers continue to upgrade to broadband Internet access from dial-up Internet access. As subscription revenues decline, AOL will become more dependent on advertising revenues and continued cost reductions in order to improve its financial performance. AOL currently depends on its access subscribers to generate a significant majority of its paid-search and display advertising revenues, and in the future it must be able to maintain the level of engagement of these subscribers and to attract new highly-engaged Internet users to its interactive properties to continue to increase its advertising revenues. For its business strategy to be successful, AOL must continue to increase advertising revenues. A significant majority of AOL’s paid-search and display advertising revenues currently is generated from activity by AOL access subscribers who use AOL e-mail and the AOL client software. By permitting the general Internet population (including former subscribers) to use the AOL client software, “AOL.com” e-mail addresses and certain other AOL interactive offerings at no charge, AOL aims to maintain the generally high level of engagement of its current subscribers (regardless of whether they continue to pay AOL for Internet access) and to attract new highly-engaged Internet consumers to the AOL properties. Even though AOL has registered a significant number of new e-mail accounts and has migrated a significant number of paid subscribers to “free” accounts, these actions are not necessarily an indicator of high levels of future activity by the Internet users (including former subscribers) on the AOL Network, which activity is needed in order for AOL to continue to increase its advertising revenues. Important components of AOL’s business strategy are maintaining the usage of the AOL client software by current subscribers, increasing the usage of the AOL client software by the general Internet population, including former subscribers, and increasing both traffic to AOL websites and consumption of other AOL interactive services. To increase the ease with which the general Internet population can obtain the AOL client software and access both AOL websites and other interactive services, AOL seeks to distribute its free and paid products and services (such as the AOL client software, AOL.com, AOL content and/or other AOL interactive services) through a variety of methods, including relationships with third-party high-speed Internet access providers, retailers, computer manufacturers or other aggregators of Internet activity, and through search engine optimization and search engine marketing. Although AOL had relationships with certain high-speed Internet access providers and computer manufacturers in place when it implemented the new phase of its business strategy, its ability to enter into new or additional distribution agreements may be limited by existing exclusive arrangements that distributors have with other Internet companies. Furthermore, distribution of interactive products and services is subject to significant competition. Although agreements with high-speed Internet access providers, computer manufacturers and retailers are not required for Internet users either to obtain the AOL client software or to access other free AOL interactive properties and services, if AOL is unable to enter into favorable arrangements with these parties, fewer Internet users may download the AOL client software and/or use other AOL interactive properties or services, which could hinder the growth of AOL’s advertising revenues. In order for AOL to continue to improve its financial performance, AOL must increase its advertising revenues, as well as reduce its overall costs, in sufficient amounts and in a timely manner to coincide with or precede the continuing loss of subscribers to the AOL service and related subscription revenues. Subscription revenues 34 Table of Contents declined substantially in 2006, and such declines are expected to continue. At the same time, advertising revenues increased during 2006, but not in an amount sufficient to offset the decline in subscription revenues. In 2007, advertising revenues must be increased substantially and AOL’s costs must be decreased substantially in order for AOL’s financial performance to improve. AOL made substantial cost reductions in 2006 related to marketing, network service, customer service and product development, and it intends to continue to identify and implement cost reductions. However, cost reductions may lead to employee distraction and morale problems, as well as difficulty in hiring or retaining necessary employees. Reducing costs may also lead to reduced operational capabilities, and if costs are reduced in a manner that is not consistent with operational requirements, AOL’s ability to provide satisfactory customer service may be adversely affected. Following the substantial cost reductions made prior to and during 2006, it may become increasingly difficult to identify and implement cost reductions in 2007 without adversely impacting AOL’s operational effectiveness. If advertising revenues do not increase and if cost reductions are not made in sufficient amounts and on a timeline that coincides with or precedes the continuing loss of subscribers and related decreases in subscription revenues, or if AOL is unable to make cost reductions in an operationally effective manner, AOL’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The new phase of AOL’s business strategy has made AOL more susceptible to the risks of operating an advertising business. With the implementation of the new phase of its business strategy, AOL has become more dependent on advertising revenues and thus more susceptible to the risks of operating an advertising-supported business. Purchases of advertising tend to be cyclical and are susceptible to changing economic and market conditions that are outside AOL’s control, as described above in the risk factor entitled “Weakening economic conditions or other factors could reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such revenues.” The size of the Internet advertising business, including the sponsored-links search business, has increased substantially during 2006. If the Internet advertising business does not continue to grow or shrinks in 2007, AOL’s ability to generate increased advertising revenues may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, the Internet advertising business is relatively new and has seen greater volatility than the general advertising market. It is possible that Internet advertising could be disproportionately affected by any advertising or economic slowdown. A significant amount of growth in AOL’s advertising revenues in 2006 was attributable to operational improvements and improved targeting. AOL must continue to identify and implement such operational and targeting improvements in order to support increased pricing and in order to continue to increase its advertising revenues. Also in 2006, almost a quarter of AOL’s growth in advertising revenues was attributable to the expansion of a relationship with a single customer. In the future, AOL will need to continue to maintain or expand this relationship or identify and enter into new or expanded relationships with other advertising customers in order to sustain or increase its growth in advertising revenues. Continued growth in AOL’s advertising business also depends on its ability to continue offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and services for marketers and its ability to maintain or increase prices for its advertising products and services. If AOL cannot continue to improve its advertising products and services or if prices for its advertising products and services decrease, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. AOL faces intense competition in its global web services business, its Internet access business and in the distribution of its products and services, and must compete successfully in order to improve its financial performance. AOL’s global web services business competes for online users’ time and attention and advertising, subscription and commerce revenues with a wide range of companies, including web-based portals and individual websites providing content, commerce, search, communications, community and similar features, as well as ISPs and traditional media companies such as Viacom Inc., CBS Corporation, News Corporation, The Walt Disney Company, Tribune Company, The New York Times Company and NBC Universal. Major competitors include Yahoo! Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Google, IAC/ InterActiveCorp and eBay Inc. In addition, new properties such as YouTube, MySpace and Facebook that are able to gain large numbers of visitors and generate significant amounts of activity also compete with AOL. Advertising.com, which generates almost a quarter of AOL’s advertising revenues, competes with other aggregators of third-party inventory and other companies that offer competing advertising products, technology and services, such as 24/7 Real Media, Inc. and ValueClick, Inc. Competition affects the prices paid by Advertising.com for inventory and prices charged to advertisers for Advertising.com’s advertising products and services. In order for 35 Table of Contents Advertising.com to remain competitive, it is important that Advertising.com offer compelling advertising products and technologies to the advertisers who are its customers. As part of its strategy, AOL has sold its Internet access operations in France and the U.K. and has agreed to do so in Germany, and, in conjunction with these sales, has maintained relationships with the purchasers to continue to provide its former subscribers with web services, including portals, e-mail and content. Accordingly, AOL Europe is reliant on the purchasers’ abilities to maintain relationships with these subscribers in order to generate web services activity and advertising revenues. In Europe, following the sales of its access operations businesses, AOL Europe’s competitors are Google, Microsoft Corporation and Yahoo! Inc. in its main markets, in addition to Web.de in Germany and Voila in France. Internationally, AOL expects to compete against local Internet and other web services companies as well as current U.S. competitors who have an established portal presence in these locations. Although AOL has implemented a new phase of its business strategy to shift to a primarily advertising-supported business model, AOL continues to operate in the Internet access business, and competes for subscription revenues with companies providing dial-up Internet service, including EarthLink, and discount ISPs such as NetZero. AOL also competes with companies providing Internet access via broadband technologies, such as cable companies and telephone companies, and companies offering emerging broadband access technologies, including wireless, mobile wireless, fiber optic cable and power line. AOL faces significant competition, primarily from the competitors identified above, in the distribution of its products and services in a cost effective manner. For example, AOL competes with other providers of portals and other Internet products and services to distribute and promote its products and services through high-speed Internet access networks, at retail outlets, on new computers, as well as via other distribution channels. AOL also competes to secure placement of its products and services on new computers and mobile devices, including cellular telephones and PDAs, to distribute and promote its products and services. There can be no assurance that AOL will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations. If the Company’s AOL business is unable to acquire, develop or offer compelling applications, features, services, tools and content at reasonable costs, the size or value of its audience may not increase as anticipated, which could adversely affect its subscription and advertising revenue. AOL believes that it must offer compelling and differentiated applications, features, services, tools and content to attract and retain subscribers and to attract Internet users to, and generate increased activity on, the AOL Network. Acquiring, developing and offering such applications, features, services, tools and content may require significant costs and effort to develop, while consumer tastes may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. AOL also anticipates that subscribers and Internet users may demand an escalating quality of offerings. If AOL is unable to provide offerings that are compelling to subscribers and Internet users, the size and value of AOL’s audience may be adversely affected. With respect to search, a significant portion of AOL’s growth in advertising revenues has been attributable to its relationship with Google. AOL has agreed to use Google’s algorithmic search and sponsored links on an exclusive basis through December 19, 2010. Although AOL retains the ability to differentiate its search product from Google and other providers, competing search technologies may grow in popularity with consumers or businesses, and the exclusivity in certain circumstances may limit AOL’s flexibility to change providers of these products in the future. Furthermore, although AOL has access to certain content provided by the Company’s other businesses, it also may be required to make substantial payments to third parties from whom it licenses such content, and costs for such content may increase as a result of competition or for other reasons. Further, many of AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. AOL’s publication of user-created as well as third-party content may put AOL at increased risk of allegations of copyright infringement or other legal liability, and may cause AOL to incur significant monitoring or legal costs. These risks also could limit AOL’s ability to provide competitive content, features and tools. If AOL is unable to acquire or develop compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is similar to or the same as that provided by AOL, the size and value of AOL’s audience may be adversely affected. If the size and value of AOL’s audience do not increase significantly, AOL’s subscription and advertising revenue could be adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents More individuals are using non-PC devices to access the Internet, and AOL must be able to secure placement of its services, applications and features on such devices, must ensure that they are compatible with the devices and must ensure that the AOL Network is accessible by users of non-PC devices. The number of individuals who access the Internet through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital assistants or mobile telephones, has increased significantly. AOL needs to secure arrangements with the device manufacturers as well as the access providers or wireless carriers, as the case may be, in order to ensure placement of its services, applications and features on the non-PC devices. In addition, due to differences in memory, functionality and resolution, AOL must ensure that its services, applications and features are technologically compatible in order for them to be placed on such non-PC devices. Also, the websites, applications and services included in the AOL Network must be designed so that they are technologically compatible with the non-PC devices in order that users of these devices can access the AOL Network and engage in activity. If AOL is unable to place its services, applications and features on non-PC devices, or if AOL is unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device users to use the AOL Network, it could have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising, subscription or other revenue. Changes in international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations, or interpretations of international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations, could adversely affect AOL’s operating results. International, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting AOL’s business, or interpretations or application of these tax laws and regulations, could change. In addition, new international, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting AOL’s business could be enacted. In December 2004, the U.S. federal government enacted the Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act (or the ITNA), extending the moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access or discriminatory taxes on the Internet through November 2007. If the ITNA is not extended or permanently enacted, state and local jurisdictions may seek to impose taxes on Internet access, other paid services or electronic commerce within their jurisdictions. These taxes could adversely affect AOL’s operating results. In addition, under a directive adopted by the European Union in July 2003, certain services are subject to a Value Added Tax, or VAT, which is levied based on the country from which the service is provided rather than the place of consumption. If the EU votes in the future to change its approach from the current “place of supply” to a “place of consumption” approach, AOL’s operating results could be adversely affected. In December 2006, the French tax authorities assessed VAT against a subsidiary of AOL, largely under a “place of consumption” theory that does not exist under current law. To the extent that a court adopts this new theory, AOL’s operating results could be adversely affected. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of AOL’s business. A variety of federal, state and international laws govern the collection and use of customer data that AOL uses to operate its services and to help deliver advertisements to its customers. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the growth of AOL’s business. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S CABLE BUSINESS TWC faces certain challenges relating to the integration of the systems acquired in the Adelphia acquisition and related transactions with Comcast into its existing systems. The successful integration of the Acquired Systems will depend primarily on TWC’s ability to manage the combined operations and integrate into its operations the Acquired Systems (including management information, marketing, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, customer support and product distribution infrastructure, personnel, payroll and benefits, regulatory compliance and technology systems). The integration of these systems, including the upgrade of certain portions of the Acquired Systems requires significant capital expenditures and may require TWC to use financial resources it would otherwise devote to other business initiatives, including marketing, customer care, the development of new products and services and the expansion of its existing cable systems. While TWC has planned for certain capital expenditures for, among other things, improvements to plant and technical performance and 37 Table of Contents upgrading system capacity of the Acquired Systems, TWC may be required to spend more than anticipated for those purposes. Furthermore, these integration efforts may require more attention from TWC’s management and impose greater strains on its technical resources than anticipated. If TWC fails to successfully integrate the Acquired Systems, it could have a material adverse effect on its business and financial results. Additionally, to the extent TWC encounters significant difficulties in integrating systems or other operations, its customer care efforts may be hampered. For instance, TWC may experience higher-than-normal call volumes under such circumstances, which might interfere with its ability to take orders, assist customers not impacted by the integration difficulties and conduct other ordinary course activities. In addition, depending on the scope of the difficulties, TWC may be the subject of negative press reports or customer perception. TWC has entered into transitional services arrangements with Comcast under which Comcast has agreed to assist TWC by providing certain services in the applicable Acquired Systems as TWC integrates those systems into its existing systems. Any failure by Comcast to perform under these agreements may cause the integration of the applicable Acquired Systems to be delayed and may increase the amount of time and money TWC needs to devote to the integration of such systems. TWC may not realize the anticipated benefits of the Adelphia acquisition and/or related transactions with Comcast. The Adelphia acquisition and related transactions with Comcast have combined cable systems that were previously owned and operated by three different companies. Time Warner expects that TWC will realize cost savings and other financial and operating benefits as a result of the transactions. However, due to the complexity of and risks relating to the integration of these systems, among other factors, Time Warner cannot predict with certainty when these cost savings and benefits will occur or the extent to which they actually will be achieved, if at all. TWC faces risks inherent to its voice services business. TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it introduces its voice services in new operating areas, including the systems acquired from Adelphia and Comcast, and/or increases the scale of its voice service offerings in areas in which they have already been launched. First, TWC faces heightened customer expectations for the reliability of voice services as compared with its video and high-speed data services. TWC has undertaken significant training of customer service representatives and technicians, and it will continue to need a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, TWC may need to increase its expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet customer expectations, its voice services business could be adversely affected. Second, the competitive landscape for voice services is intense; TWC faces competition from providers of Internet phone services, as well as incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers and others. See “— TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could affect its future results of operations.” Third, TWC’s voice services depend on interconnection and related services provided by certain third parties. As a result, its ability to implement changes as the services grow may be limited. Finally, TWC expects advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, the Company is unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future developments in these areas might have on TWC’s voice services business and operations. In addition, TWC’s launch of voice services in the Acquired Systems may pose certain risks. TWC will be unable to provide its voice services in some of the Acquired Systems without first upgrading the facilities. Additionally, it may need to obtain certain services from third parties prior to deploying voice services in the Acquired Systems. If TWC encounters difficulties or significant delays in launching voice services in the Acquired Systems, its business and financial results may be adversely affected. Increases in programming costs could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, one of TWC’s largest operating expense items for the foreseeable future. In recent years, TWC has experienced significant increases in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. TWC’s programming cost increases are expected to continue due to a variety of factors, including inflationary and negotiated annual increases, additional programming being provided to subscribers, and increased costs to purchase new programming. Programming cost increases that TWC is unable to pass on fully to its subscribers have had, and will continue to have, an adverse impact on cash flow and operating margins. In addition, such increases could have an adverse 38 Table of Contents impact on cash flow and operating margins from new video products and services. Current and future programming providers that provide content that is desirable to TWC subscribers may enter into exclusive affiliation agreements with TWC’s cable and non-cable competitors and may be unwilling to enter into affiliation agreements with TWC on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase TWC’s programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission. TWC currently has multi-year agreements with most, but not all, of the retransmission-consent stations that it carries. In some cases, TWC carries stations under short-term arrangements while it attempts to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require TWC to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make TWC’s video service less attractive to subscribers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services may increase TWC’s programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity it has available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on its business and financial results. TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could affect its future results of operations. TWC’s industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal competitors — in particular, direct broadcast satellite operators and incumbent local telephone companies — either offer or are making significant capital investments that will allow them to offer services that provide directly comparable features and functions to those TWC offers, and they are aggressively seeking to offer them in bundles similar to TWC’s. Incumbent local telephone companies have recently increased their efforts to provide video services. The two major incumbent local telephone companies — AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”) — have both announced that they intend to make fiber upgrades of their networks, although each is using a different architecture. AT&T is expected to utilize one of a number of fiber architectures, including the fiber-to-the-node (or FTTN) network, and Verizon utilizes a fiber architecture known as fiber-to-the-home (or FTTH). Some upgraded portions of these networks are or will be capable of carrying two-way video services that are technically comparable to TWC’s, high-speed data services that operate at speeds as high or higher than those TWC makes available to customers in these areas and digital voice services that are similar to TWC’s. In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional phone services as well as bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies. In areas where they have launched video services, these parties are aggressively marketing video, voice and data bundles at entry level prices similar to those TWC uses to market its bundles. TWC’s video business faces intense competition from direct broadcast satellite providers. These providers compete with TWC based on aggressive promotional pricing and exclusive programming (e.g., “NFL Sunday Ticket,” which is not available to cable operators). Direct broadcast satellite programming is comparable in many respects to TWC’s analog and digital video services, including its DVR service. In addition, the two largest direct broadcast satellite providers offer some interactive programming features. These providers are working to increase the number of HDTV channels they offer in order to differentiate their service from services offered by cable operators. In some areas, incumbent local telephone companies and direct broadcast satellite operators have entered into co-marketing arrangements that allow both parties to offer synthetic bundles (i.e., video services provided principally by the direct broadcast satellite operator, and digital subscriber line (“DSL”) and traditional phone service offered by the telephone companies). From a consumer standpoint, the synthetic bundles appear similar to TWC’s bundles and result in a single bill. AT&T is offering a service in some areas that utilizes direct broadcast satellite video but in an integrated package with AT&T’s DSL product, which enables an Internet-based return path that allows the user to order a VOD-like product and other services that TWC provides using its two-way network. 39 Table of Contents TWC operates its cable systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local authorities. The existence of more than one cable system operating in the same territory is referred to as an “overbuild.” In some of TWC’s operating areas, other operators have overbuilt its systems and offer video, data and/or voice services in competition with TWC. In addition to these competitors, TWC faces competition on individual services from a range of competitors. For instance, its video service faces competition from providers of paid television services (such as satellite master antenna services) and from video delivered over the Internet. TWC’s high-speed data service faces competition from, among others, incumbent local telephone companies utilizing their newly-upgraded fiber networks and/or DSL lines, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless, broadband over power line providers, and from providers of traditional dial-up Internet access. TWC’s voice service faces competition for voice customers from incumbent local telephone companies, cellular telephone service providers, Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues, reduce the number of its subscribers or reduce its ability to increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced products and services, it may be subject to competition from other providers of those products and services, such as telecommunications providers, Internet service providers and consumer electronics companies, among others. TWC cannot predict the extent to which this competition will affect its future financial results or return on capital expenditures. Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. The Internal Revenue Service and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions or the Exchange, or related valuations, and any successful challenge by the Internal Revenue Service or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile, significantly increase its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (together with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or the related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile (including its ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from these transactions), significantly increase its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government has been exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services. Additional regulation, including regulation relating to rates, equipment, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, data and voice services under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and other laws, possibly in ways that it 40 Table of Contents has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations in areas such as: • Cable Franchising. At the federal level, various provisions have been introduced in connection with broader Communications Act reform that would streamline the video franchising process to facilitate entry by new competitors. To date, no such measures have been adopted by Congress. In December 2006, the FCC adopted an order in which the agency concluded that the current franchise approval process constitutes an unreasonable barrier to entry that impedes the development of cable competition and broadband deployment. As a result, the agency adopted new rules intended to limit the ability of county- and municipal-level franchising authorities to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises. Among other things, the new rules: establish deadlines for franchising authorities to act on applications; prohibit franchising authorities from placing unreasonable build-out demands on applicants; specify that certain fees, costs, and other compensation to franchising authorities will count towards the statutory five-percent cap on franchise fees; prohibit franchising authorities from requiring applicants to undertake certain obligations concerning the provision of public, educational, and governmental access programming and institutional networks; and preempt local level-playing-field regulations, and similar provisions, to the extent they impose restrictions on applicants that are greater than those set forth in the FCC’s new rules. At the state level, several states, including California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry by additional video competitors. Some of these statutes provide more favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers. Similar bills are pending or may be enacted in additional states. To the extent federal or state laws or regulations facilitate additional competitive entry or create more favorable regulatory treatment for new entrants, TWC’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. • À la carte Video Services. There has from time to time been federal legislative interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an à la carte basis. Currently, no such legislation is pending. In November 2004, the FCC released a study concluding that à la carte would raise costs for consumers and reduce programming choices. In February 2006, the FCC’s Media Bureau issued a revised report that concluded, contrary to the findings of the earlier study, that à la carte could be beneficial in some instances. There are no pending proceedings related to à la carte at the FCC. • Carriage Regulations. In 2005, the FCC reaffirmed its earlier decisions rejecting multicasting (i.e., carriage of more than one program stream per broadcaster) and dual carriage (i.e., carriage of both digital and analog broadcast signals) requirements with respect to carriage of broadcast signals pursuant to must-carry rules. Certain parties filed petitions for reconsideration. To date, no action has been taken on these reconsideration petitions, and TWC is unable to predict what requirements, if any, the FCC might adopt. In addition, the FCC is expected to launch proceedings related to leased access and program carriage. With respect to leased access, the FCC is expected to seek comment on how leased access is being used in the marketplace, and whether any rule changes are necessary to better effectuate statutory objectives. With respect to program carriage, the FCC is expected to examine its procedural rules, and assess whether modifications are needed to achieve more timely decisions in response to program carriage complaints. TWC is unable to predict whether these expected proceedings will lead to any changes in existing regulations. • Voice Communications. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant regulations. It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or other regulations) apply to providers of nontraditional voice services, including TWC’s voice services. In 2004, the FCC sought public comment regarding how Voice-over Internet Protocol should be classified for purposes of the Communications Act, and how it should be regulated. To date, however, the FCC has not issued an order comprehensively resolving these issues. Instead, the FCC has addressed certain individual issues on a piecemeal basis. In particular, the FCC declared in 2004 that certain nontraditional voice services are not subject to state certification or tariffing obligations. The full extent of this preemption is unclear and the validity of the preemption order has been appealed to a federal appellate court where a decision is pending. In orders in 2005 and 2006, the FCC subjected nontraditional voice service providers to obligations to provide 911 41 Table of Contents emergency service, to accommodate law enforcement requests for information and wiretapping and to contribute to the federal universal service fund. TWC was already operating in accordance with these requirements at that time. To the extent that the FCC (or the United States Congress) imposes additional burdens, TWC’s operations could be adversely affected. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably, to manage its broadband facilities efficiently and to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that could limit the ability of broadband providers to manage their networks efficiently and profitably. Although the positions taken by these groups are not well defined and are sometimes inconsistent with one another, most would directly or indirectly limit the ability of broadband providers to apply differential pricing or network management policies to different uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers. The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continues to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to its broadband facilities. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services. TWC is unable to predict the likelihood that such regulatory proposals will be adopted. The FCC’s set-top box rules could impose significant additional costs on TWC. Currently, many cable subscribers rent set-top boxes from TWC that perform both signal-reception functions and conditional-access security functions, as well as enable delivery of advanced services. In 1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow cable subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from certain third parties, including third-party retailers. The most important of the FCC’s implementing regulations requires cable operators to offer separate equipment that provides only the security functions and not the signal-reception functions (so that cable subscribers can purchase set-top boxes or other navigational devices from third parties) and to cease placing into service new set-top boxes that have integrated security and signal-reception functions. The regulations requiring cable operators to cease distributing new set-top boxes with integrated security and signal-reception functions are currently scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2007. On August 16, 2006, the National Cable and Telecommunications Association filed with the FCC a request that these rules be waived for all cable operators, including TWC, until a downloadable security solution is available or December 31, 2009, whichever is earlier. No assurance can be given that the FCC will grant this or any other waiver request. TWC’s vendors have not yet manufactured, on a commercial scale, set-top boxes that can support all the services that TWC offers while relying on separate security devices. It is possible that TWC’s vendors will be unable to deliver the necessary set-top boxes in time for TWC to comply with the FCC regulations. It is also possible that the FCC will determine that the set-top boxes that TWC eventually obtains are not compliant with applicable rules. In either case, the FCC may penalize TWC. In addition, design and manufacture of the new set-top boxes will come at a significant expense, which TWC’s vendors will seek to pass on to TWC, but which TWC in turn may not be able to pass on to its customers, thereby increasing its costs. The Company expects that TWC will incur approximately $50 million in incremental set-top box costs during 2007 as a result of these regulations. The FCC has indicated that direct broadcast satellite operators are not required to comply with the FCC’s set-top box rules, and one telephone company has asked for a waiver of the rules. If TWC has to comply with the rule prohibiting set-top boxes with integrated security while its competitors are not required to comply with that rule, TWC may be at a competitive disadvantage. 42 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and standards to remain competitive and continue to increase their revenue. Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment industry is changing rapidly, and advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, new video formats and distribution via the Internet, have led to alternative methods of product delivery and storage. Certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, devices that allow users to view television programs or motion pictures from a remote location may cause changes in consumer behavior that could negatively affect the subscription revenue of cable and DTH satellite operators and therefore have a corresponding negative effect on the subscription revenue generated by the Networks segment and the licensing revenue generated by the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Devices that enable users to view television programs or motion pictures on a time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip advertisements may cause changes in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the advertising revenue of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable channels. In addition, further increased use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choice, at a time of their choice, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect such advertising and licensing revenue. Technological developments also pose other challenges for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are developed. In addition, technological developments could enable third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home Box Office, and deal directly with cable and DTH satellite operators or other businesses that develop to offer content to viewers. Such limitations on the ability of the segments to distribute their content could have an adverse impact on their revenue. Cable system and DTH satellite operators are developing new techniques that enable them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially furthering the development of more specialized niche audiences. A greater number of options increases competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may improve their competitive position compared to the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments for television advertising and for subscription and licensing revenue. In addition, traditional ratings measures are likely to change with emerging technologies that can measure viewing audiences with improved sensitivity. These changes could result in changes to measured audiences, especially in the local geographic regions measured by Nielsen Media Research. Any decrease in measured audiences could adversely affect the advertising revenue of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have a negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable channels. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to continue to grow and increase their revenue. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in highly competitive industries. The Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses generate revenue through the production and distribution of feature films, television programming and home video products, licensing fees, the sale of advertising and subscriber fees paid by affiliates. Competition faced by the businesses within these segments is intense and comes from many different sources. For example: • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other television programming services for marketing and distribution by cable and other distribution systems. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for viewers’ attention and audience share with other forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, pay and basic cable television services, motion pictures, home video, pay-per-view and 43 Table of Contents video-on-demand services, Internet streaming and downloading and other online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. • The Networks segment faces competition for programming with commercial television networks, independent stations, and pay and basic cable television services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion picture studios and independent motion picture distributors. • The production divisions in the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other producers and distributors of television programming for air time on broadcast networks, independent commercial television stations, and cable television and DTH satellite networks. • The production divisions in the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other production companies for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of literary properties. • The advertising-supported networks and Turner’s Internet sites in the Networks segment compete for advertising with numerous direct competitors and other media. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete in their character merchandising and other licensing activities with other licensors of character, brand and celebrity names. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for viewers’ attention with other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including video games, the Internet and other computer-related activities. The ability of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to provide high-quality and popular entertainment product and their ability to achieve high distribution levels. There has been consolidation in the media industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry participants with interests in other multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated. Vertical integration of other television networks and television and film production companies could adversely impact the Networks segment if it hinders the ability of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks. In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase their programming from production companies with which they are affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing revenue. Furthermore, as described above, there is increased competition in the television industry evidenced by the increasing number and variety of broadcast networks and basic cable and pay television programming services now available. Although this increase could result in greater licensing revenue for the Filmed Entertainment segment, it also could result in higher licensing costs for the Networks segment. There can be no assurance that the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have an adverse effect on their businesses or results of operations. The popularity of the Company’s television programs and films and other factors is difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Television program and film production and distribution are inherently risky businesses largely because the revenue derived from the production and distribution of a television program or motion picture, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with a program or film, depends primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television program or feature film also depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and films released at or near the same time, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are also factors that are weighed when determining their advertising rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. Further, the theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay television programming services, and sales of licensed consumer products. Therefore, low public acceptance of the television programs or feature films of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may adversely affect their respective results of operations. 44 Table of Contents The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject to potential labor interruption. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, trade employees and others involved in the production of motion pictures and television programs who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The segments’ collective bargaining agreement with the Writer’s Guild of America (East and West) expires on October 31, 2007. Additionally, there are a number of other production-related bargaining groups whose contracts expire throughout 2007. If expiring collective bargaining agreements are not renewed, it is possible that the affected unions and other groups could take action in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions could cause delays in the production or the release dates of the segments’ television programs or feature films as well as higher costs resulting either from such action or less favorable terms of these agreements on renewal. Although piracy poses risks to several of Time Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the prevalence of piracy of feature films and television programming. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability.” RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors, including increasing competition for consumer discretionary spending, piracy, the maturation of the DVD format, increased competition for retailer shelf space and the fragmentation of consumer leisure time, may be contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally. DVD sales also may be affected as consumers increasingly shift from consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of entertainment. The filmed entertainment industry faces a challenge in managing the transition from physical to digital formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD business and its relationships with large retail customers and yet meets the relatively small, but growing, consumer demand for delivery of filmed entertainment in a variety of digital formats. The high definition format war between the HD DVD and Blu-ray formats may slow consumer adoption of those technologies and may likewise result in increased competition for retailer shelf space. There can be no assurance that home video wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing, digital competition and other factors. A continuing decline in DVD sales could have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations and growth prospects. The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes the release of a limited number of “event” films each year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s results of operations and financial condition. The Filmed Entertainment segment expects to theatrically release a limited number of feature films each year that are expected to be “event” or “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher production and marketing costs than the other films released during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box office success and international box office success, as well as a correlation between box office success and success in the subsequent distribution channels of home video and television. If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office success, the results of operations and financial condition of the Filmed Entertainment segment could be adversely affected. Further, there can be no assurance that these historical correlations will continue in the future. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The production and marketing of feature films require substantial capital, and the costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. As production and marketing costs increase, it creates a greater need to generate revenue internationally or from other media, such as home video, television and new media. Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the amortization of film production costs. The Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize 45 Table of Contents capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenue from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment. A decrease in demand for television product could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the number of original programs ordered by the networks and the per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near term. In addition, such a decrease in demand could lead to a reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and vertical integration between station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical integration between television production studios and broadcast networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the move of viewers and advertisers away from network television to other entertainment and information outlets could adversely affect the amount of original programming ordered by networks and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming. Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an accompanying loss of advertising revenue as viewers move to other entertainment outlets, which may negatively impact the segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the increasing popularity of local television content in international markets also could result in decreased demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and syndication revenue for U.S. television content. 46 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and further consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors could adversely affect the segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliation agreements with cable system and DTH satellite operators for the distribution of its networks, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of any one of these arrangements representing a significant number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenue. The loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor of the segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenue. In addition, further consolidation among cable system and DTH satellite operators has provided greater negotiating power to such distributors, and increased vertical integration of such distributors could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its networks on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to popular programming or create popular original programming could adversely affect the segment’s revenue. The Networks segment obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed programming, including sports programming, is made available based on programming rights of varying durations that it has negotiated with third parties. Home Box Office also enters into commitments to acquire rights to feature films and other programming for its HBO and Cinemax pay television programming services from feature film producers and other suppliers for varying durations. Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, could create their own networks. The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability to develop strong brand awareness and to target key areas of the television viewing audience, including both newer demographics and preferences for particular genres, as well as its ability to continue to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Networks segment derives a portion of its revenue from the exploitation of the Company’s library of feature films, animated titles and television titles. If the content of the Company’s programming libraries ceases to be of interest to audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular original content, the revenue of the Networks segment could be adversely affected. Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the Networks segment. As described above, the Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. For example, the Turner networks license the rights to broadcast significant sports events such as the NBA play-offs and a series of NASCAR races. In addition, Home Box Office relies on film studios for a significant portion of its content. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds the amount of quality content available, the networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased costs with higher advertising and/or subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be adversely affected. The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs costs for new show concepts and all types of creative talent, including actors, writers and producers. The segment incurs additional significant costs, such as 47 Table of Contents newsgathering and marketing costs. Unless they are offset by increased revenue, increases in the costs of creative talent or in production, newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to decreased profits at the Networks segments. The continued decline in the growth rate of U.S. basic cable and DTH satellite households, together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely affect the future revenue growth of the Networks segment. The U.S. video services business generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact on the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance to wholesale programming price increases, and programming distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other than video, such as high-speed data access and voice services. Also, consumers’ basic cable rates have continued to increase, which could cause consumers to cancel their cable or satellite service subscriptions. The inability of the Networks segment to implement measures to maintain future revenue growth may adversely affect its business. Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of the Networks segment. The multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States, as well as broadcast networks, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of the Networks segment. For example, the FCC has been examining whether cable operators should offer “à la carte” programming to subscribers on a network-by-network basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers. A number of cable operators, including TWC, have voluntarily agreed to offer family tiers in light of this interest. The unbundling or tiering of program services may reduce distribution of certain cable networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and may affect the segment’s ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. Any decline in subscribers could lead to a decrease in the segment’s advertising and subscription revenues. There also has been consideration of the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter enforcement of existing laws and rules. If such an extension or attempt to increase enforcement occurred and were upheld, the content of the Networks segment could be subject to additional regulation, which could affect subscriber and viewership levels. Moreover, the determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content would violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and results of operations of the Networks segment. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS The Publishing segment’s operating income could decrease as a result of rising paper costs and postal rates, and its business could be negatively impacted by a significant disruption in postal service. The Publishing segment’s principal raw material is paper, and paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. Accordingly, significant unanticipated increases in paper prices could adversely affect the segment’s operating income. Postage for magazine distribution and direct solicitation is another significant operating expense of the Publishing segment, which primarily uses the U.S. Postal Service to distribute its products. The U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate increase of 5.4% effective January 8, 2006 and has proposed an additional increase of approximately 10% effective May 6, 2007, which is currently being challenged before the Postal Rate Commission. If there are further or more frequent significant increases in paper costs or postal rates and the Publishing segment is not able to offset these increases, they could have a negative impact on the segment’s operating income. In addition, if factors such as increased fuel and wage costs lead to a significant reduction or disruption in the service provided by the U.S. Postal Service, this could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s business. The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various regulatory and legislative matters, including changes in Audit Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in regulation of direct marketing. The Publishing segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states 48 Table of Contents under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy), the FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and the FTC Telemarketing Sales Rule. Other statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data security and telemarketing. New statutes and regulations are adopted frequently. In addition, the Publishing segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations. New rules, as well as new interpretations of existing rules, are periodically adopted by the Audit Bureau of Circulations and could lead to changes in the segment’s marketing methods that could have a negative effect on the segment’s ability to generate new magazine subscriptions, meet rate bases and support advertising sales. The Publishing segment faces significant competition for advertising and circulation. The Publishing segment faces significant competition from several direct competitors and other media, including the Internet. The Publishing segment’s magazine operations compete for circulation and audience with numerous other magazine publishers and other media. The Publishing segment’s magazine operations also compete with other magazine publishers and other media for advertising directed at the general public and at more focused demographic groups. Time Inc.’s direct marketing operations compete with other direct marketers through all media for the consumer’s attention. Competition for advertising revenue is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and amount of readership, reader response to advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in magazine publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, circulation, price and customer service, which impact readership audience, circulation revenue and, ultimately, advertising revenue. The magazine publishing business presents few barriers to entry and many new magazines are launched annually across multiple sectors. In recent years competitors launched and/or repositioned many magazines, primarily in the celebrity and women’s service sectors, that compete directly with People, In Style, Real Simple and other Publishing segment magazines, particularly at newsstand checkouts in mass-market retailers. The Company anticipates that it will face continuing competition from these new competitors, and it is possible that additional competitors may enter this field and further intensify competition, which could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenue. The Publishing segment has in recent years made various changes in its circulation practices and consequently faces new challenges in identifying new subscribers and increasing circulation, which could have an adverse impact not only on its circulation revenue but also on its advertising revenue. The Publishing segment could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the newsstand distribution channel. The Publishing segment operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute magazines published by the Publishing segment and other publishers to newsstands and other retail outlets. Due to industry consolidation, four wholesalers represent more than 80% of the wholesale magazine distribution business. There is a possibility of further consolidation among these wholesalers and/or insolvency of one or more of these wholesalers. Should there be a disruption in this wholesale channel it could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income and cash flow, including temporarily impeding the Publishing segment’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace. Although the shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media poses risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s revenue is derived from the sale of advertising. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing, Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 49 Table of Contents 