ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains or incorporates a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements relate to future events or our future financial performance. We generally identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “could,” “intends,” “target,” “projects,” “contemplates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “predicts,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of these terms or other similar words. These statements are only 21 Table of Contents predictions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of the events described in these forward-looking statements is subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors described in “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report. Accordingly, you should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. We cannot assure you that the events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur, and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We have identified below some important factors that could cause our forward-looking statements to differ materially from actual results, performance or financial condition: • our ability to become profitable; • the ability of our solutions to achieve market acceptance; • a highly competitive market for compensation management; • failure of our customers to renew their subscriptions for our products; • our inability to adequately grow our operations and attain sufficient operating scale; • our inability to effectively protect our intellectual property and not infringe on the intellectual property of others; • our inability to raise sufficient capital when necessary or at satisfactory valuations; • the loss of key personnel; and • other factors discussed elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business. The forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K relate only to events as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains market data related to our business and industry. This market data includes projections that are based on a number of assumptions. If these assumptions turn out to be incorrect, actual results may differ from the projections based on these assumptions. As a result, our markets may not grow at the rates projected by these data, or at all. The failure of these markets to grow at these projected rates may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common stock We operate in an emerging and rapidly evolving market which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. We derive, and expect to continue to derive for the foreseeable future, the vast majority of our revenues from on-demand compensation management solutions, which is a relatively new and emerging market, making our business and future prospects difficult to evaluate. Many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in their human resource, or HR, departments or have engaged outside consulting firms or HR Business Process Outsourcers, or HR BPOs, to obtain corporate compensation data and solutions, and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to on-demand software designed to address their compensation management needs. The market for on-demand software solutions is at an early stage of development, and it is uncertain whether an on-demand model such as ours will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical to the success of our business. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to increase their use of on-demand software in general and on-demand compensation management software in particular. If businesses do not perceive the benefits of on-demand software, then the market may not 22 Table of Contents develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You must consider our business and future prospects in light of the challenges, risks and difficulties we encounter in the new and rapidly evolving market for on-demand compensation management. These challenges, risks and difficulties include the following: • generating sufficient revenue to achieve and maintain profitability; • developing new products and enhancing the functionality and features of existing applications; • attracting and retaining new customers and expanding the revenue generated from existing customers; • managing growth in our operations, including the expansion of our direct sales and marketing operations; and • attracting and retaining key personnel. We may not be able to successfully address any of these challenges, risks and difficulties, including the other risks related to our business and industry described below. Failure to adequately do so could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our solutions are sold pursuant to subscription agreements, and if our existing customers elect either not to renew these agreements or renew these agreements for fewer applications or at a lower price, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our solutions are sold pursuant to annual or multi-year subscription agreements and our customers have no obligation to renew these agreements. As a result, we are not able to consistently and accurately predict future renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate or our customers may renew for fewer applications or at a lower price as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions, budgetary concerns or the availability and pricing of competing products. Additionally, we may lose customers due to the high turnover rate in their HR departments. If large numbers of existing customers do not renew these agreements, or renew these agreements on terms less favorable to us, and if we cannot replace or supplement those non-renewals with new subscription agreements generating the same or greater level of revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We have incurred operating losses in the past and expect to incur operating losses in the future. We have incurred operating losses in the past and we expect to incur operating losses in the future. As of March 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit is approximately $29.4 million. Our recent operating losses were $8.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, $3.0 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, and $1.9 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005. We have not been profitable since our inception, and we may not become profitable. In addition, we expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. If our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may not become profitable. You should not consider recent revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. In fact, in future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenue could decline. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of investors or securities analysts which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly revenue or results of operations fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; 23 Table of Contents • changes in the volume and mix of products sold in a particular quarter; • seasonality of our business cycle, given that our cash flows from operating activities are typically lower in our fiscal first and second quarters and higher in our fiscal third and fourth quarters; • our policy of expensing sales commissions in each year of our customer subscriptions; • the timing and success of new product introductions or upgrades by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • competition, including entry into the market by new competitors and new product offerings by existing competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations, research and development, or introducing new products; • changes in the payment terms for our products and services; and • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers. Because our on-demand software is sold pursuant to annual or multi-year subscription agreements and generally we recognize revenue from these subscriptions over the term of the agreement, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. Most of our expenses, such as salaries and third party hosting co-location costs, are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Because we recognize revenue over the term of the applicable subscription agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new subscription agreements may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue from our customers over the term of their subscription agreements with us. The substantial majority of our quarterly revenue usually represents deferred revenue from subscriptions sold during previous quarters. As a result, a decline in new or renewed subscription agreements in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue for the corresponding quarter but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Additionally, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our business model also makes it difficult for us to reflect any rapid increase in our customer base and the resulting effect of this increase in our revenue in any one period because revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription agreement term. If we fail to successfully migrate to our new accounting system, we may be unable to timely or accurately prepare financial reports. Historically, our accounting systems have been operated on a platform which may not be adequate to meet our long-term needs as a public company or under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley. As a result, we are in the process of upgrading our accounting platform to our new accounting system which we believe provides us with the ability to expand our accounting capabilities as our business grows while providing the necessary accounting controls needed for compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, our new and enhanced accounting platform could adversely affect our ability to accurately report financial information, including the filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC on a timely and accurate basis. When we convert from prior systems and processes, data integrity problems or other issues may be discovered that if not corrected could impact our business or financial results. 24 Table of Contents If our efforts to attract new customers or to sell additional solutions to our existing customers are not successful, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To grow our revenue, we must continually add new customers and sell additional solutions to existing customers. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our solutions to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers or to increase sales to existing customers. Our ability to attract new customers and to sell new solutions to existing customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. However, our existing and prospective customers may not be familiar with some of our solutions or may have traditionally used other products and services for some of their compensation management and talent management requirements. In addition, prospective customers may have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in their HR departments or have engaged outside consulting firms or HR BPOs to obtain corporate compensation data and solutions, and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to our on-demand compensation management solutions to address their compensation management needs. Existing customers and prospective customers may also decline to purchase our compensation management solutions due to budgetary concerns or the availability and pricing of competing products. If we fail to generate additional business from our existing customers and new customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or decrease, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully develop new applications, the growth of our business, our revenues and our results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We have developed new applications over time that have contributed to the growth of our business to date. For example, we initially launched Job Analyzer in 2000 and have since added the Survey Center, Reporting & Analysis, Salary Structures and CompAnalyst Executive modules to create our CompAnalyst suite. Products in the on-demand compensation management market typically take years to develop widespread market acceptance. We expect to rely on newly introduced applications for a substantial portion of our growth for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2004, we introduced our TalentManager suite of enterprise pay-for-performance applications. We anticipate that, as with any on-demand compensation management application, it may be an extended period of time before TalentManager achieves market acceptance. If we are unable to continue to develop and launch new applications or if our new applications are not able to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. If the economy worsens or labor market conditions deteriorate materially, our business may be harmed. To the extent that the economy or labor market conditions materially deteriorate, our existing and potential clients may no longer consider investment in their compensation and talent management systems a necessity, or may elect to defer purchases or reduce budgets in these areas. Either of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not continue to innovate and provide compensation management solutions that are useful to users, we may not remain competitive, and our revenues and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on providing compensation management solutions that HR decision makers may use to make compensation decisions and individuals may use to assess their worth in the job market. Our competitors are constantly developing innovations in compensation management solutions. Additionally, the market for our on-demand software is characterized by changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to improve and enhance the responsiveness, functionality and features of our existing applications and develop new applications so that we may offer a complete suite of solutions that are easy to use and effective. In particular, we will need to expand our offering to more comprehensively address our customers’ compensation management needs. If our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our users, they may become dissatisfied and move to competitors’ products and services, which would significantly impair our revenue growth, operating results and reputation. In addition, if we are unable to predict user preferences or industry changes, or if we are 25 Table of Contents unable to modify our offerings on a timely basis, we may lose customers. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our direct sales and marketing operations. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force in our Waltham, Massachusetts office. Competition for our direct sales personnel is intense. Because the majority of our direct sales personnel will be located in our Massachusetts office, we will select candidates primarily from the Massachusetts labor market. We may have difficulty hiring qualified candidates, particularly individuals with both compensation management and sales experience, or may incur additional costs related to training new employees without a compensation or sales background. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled direct sales personnel with appropriate qualifications. Our sales force currently consists primarily of direct sales personnel who sell our products over the telephone. As we expand our offerings and our customer base, it may be necessary for our sales personnel to increase the frequency of in-person meetings with our customers in order to sell our products, which will increase the costs incurred in the sales process, will require us to hire additional sales personnel and may extend the length of our typical sales cycle. Our expansion will require us to invest significant financial and other resources in the sales and marketing functions. New sales personnel are often not profitable during their first year with us. Our business will be seriously harmed if the expansion of the direct sales force does not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our direct sales force if we are unable to hire and develop talented direct sales personnel, if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time or if we are unable to retain our existing direct sales personnel. If we fail to develop or maintain our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future applications and is an important element in attracting new customers and increasing business with existing customers. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful solutions. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. To date, we have developed our brand at a low cost primarily by partnering with large Internet companies who drive traffic to our web site. Our strategy of partnering with large Internet companies may not continue to build awareness of our brand at the rate we expect. If we are unable to rely on the low cost distribution strategy of partnering with these Internet companies, we would incur costs to replace this distribution which would adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. We are dependent on our executive officers, and the loss of any of them may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner if at all. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel, particularly Kent Plunkett, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Yong Zhang, our Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Technology Officer. We are also substantially dependent on 26 Table of Contents the continued service of our existing development personnel because of the complexity of our products and technologies, as well as on our existing personnel with both compensation management and technical experience because of the difficulty we have had hiring individuals who have experience in both of these fields. Although we currently maintain a key man life insurance policy on Kent Plunkett, this insurance would not adequately compensate us for the loss of his services. The loss of one or more of our key employees could seriously harm our business. We may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our planned growth. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for senior direct sales personnel with compensation management experience and engineers with high levels of experience in designing and developing on-demand software. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect to continue to experience in the future, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do. In addition, in making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the stock options or restricted stock they are to receive in connection with their employment. Significant volatility in the price of our stock may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could be severely harmed. Our growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we may not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Rapid growth in our headcount and operations may place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Between March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2007, the number of our full time equivalent employees increased from 68 to 255. We anticipate that additional growth will be required in order to increase our customer base and handle an increase in the volume of our business. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. To date, we have not experienced any significant problems as a result of the rapid growth in our headcount, other than occasional office space constraints. However, our anticipated future growth may place greater strains on our resources. For instance, if our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees as needed, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, we may not be able to handle any increase in the volume of our business and our business may be harmed. As we continue to grow, we may outgrow our current space in Waltham, Massachusetts and Shanghai, China or desire to open additional offices domestically and internationally, which will require us to expend additional financial resources and make it more difficult to manage employees not located at our principal headquarters and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. If we determine that it is necessary or desirable to open additional offices, whether domestically or internationally, management resources will be allocated to integrating new offices, handling cultural and language issues arising from international operations and managing costs associated with a multi-office organization. Such focus could divert management’s attention from managing ongoing business operations. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The additional headcount and capital investments we expect to add will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by offsetting expense reductions in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. 27 Table of Contents Our data is obtained from a variety of sources, some of which may not be available to us in the future. Our proprietary compensation data sets are comprised of extensive data. We obtain our data from a variety of sources, including major consulting firms and our partners, the SEC and other U.S. government agencies and other third party providers, and through our own research efforts. We generally obtain data on a non-exclusive basis and in a summary form. While we do not generally have an ability to resell such data in its entirety, we use such data internally in generating our proprietary data sets. We cannot assure you that the data we require for our proprietary data sets will be available from these sources in the future or that the cost of such data will not increase. From time to time in the past, third parties, including Mercer Human Resource Consulting, or Mercer, have sent us letters asserting that our use of data may have violated our agreement with them or infringed upon their copyright, and on February 1, 2007, Mercer filed a Complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The Complaint alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, false representation, fraud, breach of contract and tortious interference with business relations. Specifically, the Complaint asserts that our use of Mercer surveys infringes upon Mercer’s copyrights, that we have breached, and have induced our customers to breach, license agreements with Mercer, that we have attempted to deceive Mercer in connection with our acquisition of Mercer surveys, and that we have misrepresented our rights to use Mercer’s surveys to our current and potential customers. The Complaint seeks injunctive relief and monetary damages. Although we believe that our purchase and use of all third party surveys (including Mercer’s) complies with copyright law and any applicable license agreements, we cannot assure you that we will prevail in this claim or other claims asserted against us and any litigation, regardless of its validity, may involve significant costs and could divert our management’s time and attention from developing our business. If Mercer or another third party successfully asserts a claim that we have violated their copyrights or our license agreements with them, we may be required to remove the applicable data from our data sets and regenerate our data sets without such data. Additionally, we may no longer be able to obtain data from the provider or other providers on reasonable terms, if at all. Any inability to obtain data may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, as we expand our customer base to include customers outside of the United States, we may not be able to obtain sufficient international data on reasonable terms to support our data sets. We plan to obtain data which we believe is sufficient to build proprietary data sets in order to support the development of an international business. We expect to incur substantial expense to build proprietary data sets for international markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully obtain sufficient data to develop proprietary data sets for international markets. We may expand through acquisitions of, investments in or through business relationships with other organizations, all of which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business and may not result in the realization of the goals underlying the acquisition, investment or business relationship. One of our business strategies is to selectively pursue the acquisition of companies that would either expand the functionality of our compensation management and talent management solutions or provide access to new customers or markets, or both. In May 2007, we acquired ICR Limited, L.C. and ICR International Ltd. (ICR), a premier provider of specialty consumer goods and global technology compensation data and software. In April 2006, we acquired the assets of the eComp division of Aon Consulting, Inc. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We also may enter into business relationships with other organizations in order to expand our offerings, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution or discount pricing or investments in other organizations. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the acquired organizations, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired organizations, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, and we may have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. Acquisitions may also disrupt 28 Table of Contents our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. We also may experience lower rates of renewal from customers obtained through acquisitions than we do from existing customers. Additionally, to the extent we expand into new facilities, we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unknown liabilities. In connection with one or more of these transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of an acquired company or integrating diverse business cultures; and • become subject to adverse tax and accounting consequences. Although we periodically engage in preliminary discussions with respect to acquisitions, we are not currently a party to any agreement or commitment, and we have no understandings with respect to any acquisition. We face competition from a variety of sources, and our failure to compete successfully could make it difficult for us to add new customers and retain existing customers and could reduce or impede the growth of our business. The market for on-demand compensation management and talent management solutions is fragmented, competitive and rapidly evolving, and there are low barriers to entry to some segments of this market. We expect the intensity of competition to increase in the future as existing competitors develop their capabilities and as new companies enter our market. Additionally, as we expand our suite of compensation management and talent management solutions and create new types of applications, we may face additional competition. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. If we are unable to compete effectively, it will be difficult for us to maintain our pricing rates and add and retain customers, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. We face competition primarily from: • generic desktop software and in-house or custom-developed solutions; • established software vendors offering products specifically designed for compensation management or talent management; • established compensation and HR consulting firms; • other websites and advertising venues; and • existing and future start-up companies offering software, data and interactive compensation solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, a larger presence in the general corporate compensation and talent management market, access to larger customer bases and substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, management, service, support and other resources than we have. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. To the extent our competitors have an existing relationship with a potential customer, that customer may be unwilling to switch vendors due to existing commitments with such competitors. 29 Table of Contents We also expect that new competitors, including companies currently operating in the HR market, enterprise software vendors and online service providers that have traditionally focused on enterprise resource planning or back office applications will enter the on-demand compensation management market with competing products as this market develops and matures. Many of these potential competitors have established or may establish business, financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers, alliance partners or other third parties or may combine and consolidate to become more formidable competitors with better resources. It is possible that these new competitors could rapidly acquire significant market share. Mergers or other strategic transactions involving our competitors could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. We believe that our industry is highly fragmented and that there is likely to be consolidation, which could lead to increased price competition and other forms of competition. Increased competition may cause pricing pressure and loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with HR BPO vendors, systems integrators, third party consulting firms or other parties. Established companies may not only develop their own products but may also merge with or acquire our current competitors. In addition, we may face competition in the future from large established companies, as well as from emerging companies that have not previously entered the markets for compensation management and talent management solutions or that currently do not have products that directly compete with our solutions. It is also possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition, our competitors may announce new products, services or enhancements that better meet the price or performance needs of clients or changing industry standards. If there are interruptions or delays in our on-demand services due to third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions and the use of our service could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with customers and subject us to liability. All of our solutions reside on hardware that we own or lease and operate and which is currently located in a third party operations facility maintained and operated by AT&T in Watertown, Massachusetts. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with AT&T, and AT&T does not guarantee that our customers’ access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on AT&T’s ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, computer viruses or other attempts to harm our systems, criminal acts and similar events. In the event that our operations facility arrangement with AT&T is terminated, or there is a lapse of service or damage to such facility, we could experience interruptions in our service as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Our disaster recovery computer hardware and systems located at our headquarters in Waltham, Massachusetts have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring at our operations facility. In the event of a disaster in which our operations facility was irreparably damaged or destroyed, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our service. Moreover, our disaster recovery computer hardware and systems are located within five miles of our operations facility and may be equally or more affected by any disaster affecting our operations facility. Any or all of these events could cause our customers to lose access to our on-demand software. Our on-demand compensation management and talent management solutions are accessed by a large number of customers at the same time. As we continue to expand the number of our customers and applications available to our existing clients, we may not be able to scale our technology to accommodate the increased capacity requirements, which may result in interruptions or delays in services. In addition, the failure by the AT&T facility to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions or delays in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. 30 Table of Contents We design the system infrastructure and procure and own or lease the computer hardware used for our on-demand services. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our service. While we have not experienced extended system failures in the past, any interruptions or delays in our service, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers and our reputation. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could damage our brand and reputation, divert our employees’ attention, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or cause customers to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Material defects or errors in our on-demand software could affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions, which would harm our business. The software applications forming part of our solutions may contain material defects or errors, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions in the future. After the release of our products, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our clients. The costs incurred in correcting any material product defects or errors may be substantial and would adversely affect our operating results. Such defects or errors may occur in the future. Because our customers use our solutions for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our solutions could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales or our existing customers could elect not to renew their agreements with us. Software performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve, or a delay in achieving, market acceptance of our solutions and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our solutions fail to perform or contain a technical defect, a customer may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for our solutions’ failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or arbitration/dispute resolution or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on reasonable terms, or at all. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could cause our business to suffer. We may be liable to our customers and may lose customers if we provide poor service, if our solutions do not comply with our agreements or if there is a loss of data. The information used in our proprietary data sets may not be complete or may contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Our ability to collect and report data may be interrupted by a number of factors, including the termination of agreements with third-party data providers, our inability to access the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems or failure by our operations facility to meet our capacity requirements. In addition, computer viruses and intentional or unintentional acts of our employees may harm our systems, causing us to lose data we maintain and supply to our customers or data that our customers input and maintain on our systems, and the transmission of computer viruses could expose us to litigation. Our subscription agreements generally give our customers the right to terminate their agreements for cause if we materially breach our obligations. Any failures in the services that we supply or the loss of any of our customers’ data that we cannot rectify in a reasonable time period may give our customers the right to terminate their agreements with us and could subject us to liability. As a result, we may also be required to spend substantial amounts to defend lawsuits and pay any resulting damage awards. In addition to potential liability, if we supply inaccurate data or experience interruptions in our ability to supply data, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers. 31 Table of Contents Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may be inadequate, or may not be available in the future on reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we cannot assure you that this policy will cover any claim against us for loss of data or other indirect or consequential damages and defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention. Reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business. Our operating results may vary based on changes in the information technology, or IT, spending of our clients. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depend on the overall demand for enterprise application software and services. We sell our solutions primarily to large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, decreased demand for enterprise application software and services, and in particular on-demand compensation management solutions, caused by a weakening global economy or otherwise may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate IT spending. In particular, compensation management software may be viewed by some of our existing and potential clients as a lower priority and may be among the first expenditures reduced as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. In the future, potential clients may decide to reduce their IT budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would negatively affect our operating results. Because our products collect and analyze applicants’ and employees’ stored personal information, concerns that our products do not adequately protect the privacy of applicants and employees could result in liability to us and inhibit sales of our products. Some of the features of our compensation management and talent management applications depend on the ability to develop and maintain profiles of applicants and employees for use by our clients. Our software applications augment these profiles over time by capturing additional data and collecting usage data. Although our applications are designed to protect user privacy, privacy concerns nevertheless may cause individuals and businesses to resist providing the personal data necessary to support our products. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy laws and regulations, could result in liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales of our products and seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. As we extend our operations outside of the United States, we may become subject to various data protection regulations such as those adopted by the European Union related to the confidentiality of personal data. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to client data, clients may curtail or stop their use of our solutions, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our solutions involve the storage and transmission of confidential information of clients and their existing and potential employees, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of, or unauthorized access to, this information, resulting in possible litigation and possible liability. Although we have never sustained such a breach, if our security measures were ever breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party obtained access to this confidential data, our reputation could be damaged, our business could suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not discovered until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. 32 Table of Contents We may increase our sales and marketing efforts to clients outside the United States and open offices outside the United States, which would expose us to additional risks associated with international operations. As a part of our future business strategy, we intend to increase our operations outside the United States, including our international sales efforts. In December 2006, we established a wholly foreign owned enterprise in Shanghai, China primarily for software development. In connection with the ICR acquisition, we now have a senior business development representative in Europe. While we have no additional specific plans or commitments with respect to any further international expansion, we may open additional offices outside of the United States in the future. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish our Chinese operations or to expand our sales into international markets and open additional international offices. International operations and sales subject us to risks and challenges that we would otherwise not face if we conducted our business only in the United States including: • legal and regulatory restrictions; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences and in doing business with foreign agencies and governments; • difficulties obtaining additional data sources that cover international job markets at a reasonable cost; • difficulties obtaining the data necessary to support international customers on reasonable terms, if at all; • difficulties developing algorithms that can be used to generate and analyze data on international job markets; • difficulties in developing products and services in different languages and for different cultures; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • challenges in protecting data and intellectual property; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • political and economic instability and export restrictions; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; and • higher costs associated with doing business internationally. Our limited experience with conducting business internationally increases our risk of operating internationally and requires management to focus additional attention and resources on our international operations. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts or other aspects of our business, which would in turn harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Evolving regulation of the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our on-demand business model. For example, we believe that increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our clients’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for solutions accessed via the Internet and restricting our ability to store, process and share data with our clients via 33 Table of Contents the Internet. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business. The success of our business depends on the continued growth and acceptance of the Internet as a business and communications tool, and the related expansion of the Internet infrastructure. The future success of our business depends upon the continued and widespread adoption of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the Internet was harmed by security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to Internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of Internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service or increased government taxation of Internet activity. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If Internet activity grows faster than Internet infrastructure or if the Internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights, it will reduce our ability to compete for business and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business, and our success is dependent, in part, on protecting our proprietary technology and our brand, marks and domain names. In particular, the processes we use when working with the data we obtain, including the use of algorithms and other analytical tools, are critical to the accuracy of our data sets and the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying our solutions or otherwise infringing on our intellectual property rights. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop solutions similar or superior to ours. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our solutions are or may be licensed may not protect our solutions and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. To protect our proprietary methods, we have one U.S. issued patent and corresponding foreign equivalents, and currently have three U.S. patent applications pending and corresponding foreign equivalents. We cannot assure you that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (or its foreign equivalents) will grant these patents, or that the patents granted will give us the protection that we seek. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. If we discover that a third party is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, we may need to undertake costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure we will prevail in any litigation filed to protect our intellectual property, and even if we are successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, we may incur significant legal costs and management’s attention may 34 Table of Contents be diverted from the ongoing development of our business, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to ours, which could decrease demand for our solutions. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, whether successful or not, it could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business may be harmed. The software and Internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us in the form of lawsuits, letters, or other forms of communication. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that we are infringing their proprietary rights, royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms we find acceptable or at all. As currently pending patent applications are not publicly available, we cannot anticipate all such claims or know with certainty whether our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. In February 2007, Mercer filed a complaint against us alleging copyright infringement, unfair competition, false representation, fraud, breach of contract and tortious interference with business relations. See “Legal Proceedings” for more information. Any litigation, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from our business. Any license agreement we enter into with the patent holder could have unfavorable terms, including royalty payments, which could adversely affect our business. In order to obtain certain of the necessary data that serves as the backbone of our compensation management solutions, we enter into agreements with major consulting firms and other third-party providers. We generally receive data in a summary form. We do not generally have an ability to resell such data in its entirety, but we can use such data internally to generate our proprietary data sets. If a third party successfully asserts a claim that our use of its data has violated our agreement with such provider or infringed upon their copyright, we may be required to remove the applicable data from our data sets and regenerate our data sets without such data. Additionally, we may no longer be able to obtain data from the provider or other providers on reasonable terms, if at all. We expect that the number of infringement and breach of contract claims in our market will increase as the number of solutions and competitors in our industry grows. These claims, whether or not successful, could: • require significant management time and attention; • result in costly and time-consuming litigation, and the payment of substantial damages; • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all; • require us to remove data from our compensation management data sets and regenerate our data sets without such data; • require us to expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions to avoid infringement or discontinue the sale of our solutions; • create negative publicity that adversely affects our reputation and brand and the demand for our solutions; or • require us to indemnify our clients. As a result, any third-party intellectual property infringement claims or breach of contract claims against us could increase our expenses and adversely affect our business. In addition, many of our customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would 35 Table of Contents increase the cost to us resulting from an adverse ruling in any such claim. Even if we have not infringed any third parties’ intellectual property rights, we cannot be sure our legal defenses will be successful, and even if we are successful in defending against such claims, our legal defense could require significant financial resources and management’s time, which could adversely affect our business. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new software or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. We cannot assure you that further equity or debt financing will be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards in the United States may be limited. As of March 31, 2007, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $16.4 million for federal tax purposes. These loss carryforwards expire at various dates through 2027. To the extent available, we intend to use these net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards may be limited by the issuance of common stock in our initial public offering. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited, our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profits. Being a public company will increase our administrative costs. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, and have made some activities more time consuming and/or costly. For example, we are migrating our core financial systems to our new accounting system and adopting additional internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. We have also retained a transfer agent and a financial printer and adopted corporate governance policies. In addition, as a public company we have all of the internal and external costs of preparing and distributing periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. These new rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and qualified executive officers. Beginning with our annual report for the year ending March 31, 2008, Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley requires us to include an internal control report with our annual report on Form 10-K. That report must include 36 Table of Contents management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. Additionally, beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending March 31, 2009, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue a report on its evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The significant deficiencies and any other deficiencies in internal control that we currently have identified and that we may identify in the future will need to be addressed as part of the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and may impair our ability to comply with Section 404. If we are not able to successfully implement internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately and timely report on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, which could adversely affect our business and investor confidence in us. See Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures,” for a description of the significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our independent registered public accounting firm and the status of our remediation efforts. An active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholders with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. Prior to February 15, 2007, there was no public market for our common stock. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • seasonality of our business cycle; • interest rate changes; • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period or failure of securities analysts to publish reports about us or our business; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our company or the on-demand software industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, new offerings or improvements, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • our ability to market new and enhanced offerings on a timely basis; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; • the volume of shares of our common stock available for public sale; • any major change in our board or management; • sales of substantial amounts of common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism; and • the other factors described elsewhere in these “Risk Factors.” As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. 37 Table of Contents In addition, prior to our public offering, we received very limited analyst coverage. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. There are many large, well-established publicly-traded companies active in our industry and market, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline and may also impair our ability to expand our business with existing customers and attract new customers. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our employees, current 5% or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially own approximately 40% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. In addition, Kent Plunkett, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 24% of our common stock. Mr. Plunkett’s significant ownership interest could adversely affect investors’ perception of our corporate governance or delay, prevent or cause a change in control of our company, any of which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales, or the availability for sale, of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. A total of approximately 6.9 million shares of common stock may be sold in the public market by existing stockholders on or about August 16, 2007, subject to applicable volume and other limitations imposed under federal securities law. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market on or after such date, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions include: • our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • only our board of directors may call special meetings of our stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of our stockholders and not by written consent; • we have authorized undesignated “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • stockholder approval of amendments of our certificate of incorporation requires a vote of a majority of our outstanding shares and, in some cases, a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; • stockholder approval of amendments of our by-laws requires a vote of a majority of our outstanding shares or, if the amendment is not recommended by our board of directors, a vote of 75% of our outstanding shares; 38 Table of Contents • vacancies on the board of directors may be filled only by the directors; • stockholders may remove our directors only for cause and with the affirmative vote of the holders of 75% of the votes that all stockholders would be entitled to cast in the election of directors; and • we require advance notice for stockholder proposals. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividend in the foreseeable future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 