ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The factors discussed below are cautionary statements that identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements in this report. Any of the following risks may have a material negative impact on the Company’s financial condition. NTS faces competition that can impact the Company’s ability to obtain contracts and negatively impact future revenues and growth prospects. NTS faces competition from both the Company’s customers’ and competitors. Some customers have their own in-house testing laboratories. For government related work, the Company also competes with the U.S. Government’s own testing laboratories. If customers increase utilization of existing in-house testing laboratories or expand their own internal testing capacity and capabilities, the amount of work outsourced to NTS could decrease. NTS may also encounter increased competition from other conformity assessment organizations that may be more specialized and able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. To remain competitive NTS must consistently provide superior service and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. NTS may fail to attract, train and retain a qualified workforce, including our management team, which would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy. To remain competitive, the Company must be able to respond effectively to technological changes and be able to hire, train and retain highly skilled sales, engineering and technical personnel. Any failure to do this could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely and to meet our customers’ needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results. 9 Table of Contents NTS may pursue or complete acquisitions which represent additional risk and could impact future financial results. NTS’ growth strategy includes the likelihood of future acquisitions. Acquisitions involve a number of risks including the integration of the acquired company with NTS’ operations. NTS completes an extensive due-diligence process prior to acquiring companies but may not be able to anticipate all liabilities or contingencies related to the acquired company. NTS cannot ensure that the expected benefits of any future acquisitions will be realized. Costs could be incurred on pursuits of proposed acquisitions that have not yet or may not close which could significantly impact the Company’s future results. Additionally, after acquisitions are made, unforeseen issues could arise which would adversely affect anticipated future cash flows, causing impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets. Total goodwill and intangible assets account for approximately $31 million or 24% of the Company’s total assets as of January 31, 2011. An impairment charge could negatively impact the Company’s future earnings. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company. NTS adopted a shareholders rights plan which is intended to protect the Company and its shareholders from efforts to obtain control of the Company that are inconsistent with the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The rights will be exercisable ten days following the earlier of the public announcement that a shareholder has acquired 15% or more of the Company's common stock without Board approval and the announcement of a tender offer which results in the ownership of 15% or more of the Company's common stock. The rights also will become exercisable if a person or group that already owns 15% or more of the Company's common stock, without Board approval, acquires any additional shares (other than pursuant to the Company's employee benefit plans). If the rights become exercisable, all rights holders (other than the person triggering the rights) will be entitled to acquire Company securities at a 50% discount. The rights will trade with the Company's common stock, unless and until they are separated upon the occurrence of certain future events. The rights expire September 20, 2020, unless redeemed for $0.001 per right or exchanged earlier by the Board. The Board may terminate the Rights Plan prior to the time the rights are triggered. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take over the Company without the approval of the Board of Directors, the rights plan could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company or a significant percentage of the outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with the Board of Directors. The use, handling or disposal of hazardous substances could expose the company to potentially significant liabilities. The Company’s operations sometimes involve the use, handling or disposal of hazardous substances. NTS is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. It is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. Some risk of environmental impact, however, is inherent in some of our operations, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. Failure to comply with regulations could result in civil, criminal, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines and penalties. 10 Table of Contents Business disruptions caused by natural disasters and other crises could adversely affect our profitability. The Company has significant operations located in regions of the United States that may be exposed to earthquakes and other natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, flooding, wildfires or lightning strikes. The Company’s California facilities, including its principal executive offices, are located near major earthquake fault lines. A major earthquake or any other natural disaster in a region near any of the Company’s facilities, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business. Business could also be disrupted by pandemics and other national or international crises. Although preventative measures may help mitigate damage, the damage and disruption to our business resulting from any of these events may be significant. If our insurance is not sufficient to recover all costs, including loss of revenues from sales to customers, we could experience a material adverse impact to our future results. NTS may not be able to procure sufficient insurance to cover operational and contractual risks. The Company may not have sufficient insurance to cover operational and contractual risks. There is also a risk that commercially available insurance will not continue to be available to the Company at a reasonable cost. While the Company feels it has adequate insurance coverage, if liability claims were to exceed our current available insurance coverage, future earnings could be negatively impacted. Disruptions or failures in the Company’s management information systems could adversely affect business. The Company is currently undergoing a conversion to a new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) System. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by projects to improve our information technology systems, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material impact on operation and accounting functions such as quoting jobs, billing customers for work complete, collecting amounts that are owed to the Company, and preparing timely and accurate financial reports. A decline in the U.S. Government defense budget could negatively impact future revenues. The Company experienced significant growth in recent years, partly due to domestic and worldwide political and economic developments that have positively affected the markets for defense and advanced technology systems. Homeland security and defeating terrorism have been among the Department of Defense’s main initiatives. A slowing in defense spending due to political or budget shifts will put downward pressure on the Company’s revenues and gross margins. Current spending levels for defense related programs by the U.S. Government may not be sustainable and future levels of spending may fail to increase or may actually decrease. An overall decline in the U.S. government defense budget would negatively impact future earnings. Adverse general economic and market conditions could cause decreases in the Company’s revenues and earnings. The Company is subject to the effects of general economic and market conditions (including economic disruption caused by terrorist acts). A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, any decreased collectability of accounts receivable whether resulting from customer bankruptcies or otherwise due to the current economic conditions, could negatively impact future earnings. The Company’s earnings and profit may be adversely impacted by failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources. NTS derives revenues from various types of contracts, including fixed price, cost reimbursement and time and materials contracts. To the extent management does not accurately forecast the level of effort required to complete a contract, or individual tasks within a contract, and the Company is unable to negotiate additional billings with a customer for cost over-runs, the Company may incur losses on individual contracts. 11 Table of Contents Adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes could require NTS to pay potentially large damage awards, which would adversely affect cash balances and profitability. The Company is subject to a variety of litigation or other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements could result in significant monetary damages. If our insurance is not sufficient to recover all costs, including related legal expense, there could be a negative impact to the Company’s cash balance and profitability. The Company’s credit facility contains restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. If NTS does not meet its covenants, the bank may not advance additional borrowings and may require the Company to pay down outstanding loans. If this occurred it would limit our ability to pursue our acquisition strategy, limit capital expenditures and would negatively impact the Company’s overall performance. Stock price devaluation could significantly impact the Company’s ability to raise capital. A decrease in the Company’s stock price would make it more difficult for the company to raise capital through equity financing, which could impact the Company’s growth strategy. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 12 Table of Contents 