Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY Several of the Company’s businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological change, and if Time Warner does not respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive position may be harmed. Time Warner’s businesses operate in the highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries. Several of its businesses are dependent to a large extent on their ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish their products and services from those of their competitors. Technological development, application and exploitation can take long periods of time and require significant capital investments. In addition, the Company may be required to anticipate far in advance which of the potential new technologies and equipment it should adopt for new products and services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to its existing products and services. If it chooses technologies or equipment that do not become the prevailing standard or that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers than those chosen by its competitors, or if it offers products or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or do not function as expected, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its operations, business or financial results could be adversely affected. The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely affected by various timing factors, such as delays in its new product or service offerings or the ability of its competitors to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than the Company. Furthermore, advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may require the Company in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain products and services the Company currently offers to customers separately or at a premium. Also, if the costs of existing technologies decrease in the future, the Company may not be able to maintain current price levels for its products or services. In addition, the inability to obtain intellectual property rights from third parties at a reasonable price or at all could impair the ability of the Company to respond to technological advances in a timely or cost-effective manner. The combination of increased competition, more technologically-advanced platforms, products and services, the increasing number of choices available to consumers and the overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries requires companies such as Time Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt more quickly to market conditions than in the past. The Company could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability. Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability. Piracy of motion pictures, television programming, video content and DVDs poses significant challenges to several of the Company’s businesses. Technological advances allowing the unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television programming and other content in unprotected digital formats, including via the Internet, increase the threat of piracy. Such technological advances make it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality unauthorized copies of such content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products or the products it licenses from third parties can have an adverse effect on its businesses and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that Time Warner potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its content. In addition, if piracy continues to increase, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and profitability. Although piracy adversely affects the Company’s U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from outside the United States is more significant, particularly in countries where laws protective of intellectual property rights are insufficient or are not strictly enforced. Time Warner has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy, both individually and together with cross-industry groups, trade associations and strategic partners, including the launch of new services for consumers at competitive price points, aggressive online and customs enforcement, compressed release windows and educational campaigns. Policing the unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is difficult, however, and the steps taken by the Company will not prevent the infringement by and/or piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can 31 Table of Contents be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful in reducing content piracy. Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which its businesses depend. The Company relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual property rights in technology and products and services used in its various operations. However, the Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which the Company operates, much of the business of its various segments relies on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and Time Warner may not be able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible that, in connection with a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the Company may license its trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill to third parties, or the business of various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction. The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results due to a disruption in its business operations, the incurrence of significant costs and other factors. From time to time, the Company receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their intellectual property rights. Recently, the number of patent infringement claims resulting in lawsuits, in particular against the technology-related businesses at AOL and TWC, has increased. The number of other intellectual property infringement claims also could increase in the future. Increased infringement claims and lawsuits could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require Time Warner to change its business practices and limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition, agreements entered into by the Company may require it to indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could require the Company to expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating results. The use of new technologies to distribute content on the Internet, including through Internet sites providing social networking and user-generated content, could put some of the Company’s businesses at an increased risk of allegations of copyright or trademark infringement or legal liability, as well as cause them to incur significant technical, legal or other costs and limit their ability to provide competitive content, features or tools. Time Warner faces risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising; • import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and language and cultural differences; • issues related to occupational safety and adherence to stringent local labor laws and regulations; • longer payment cycles; 32 Table of Contents • political or social unrest; • economic volatility; • seasonal volatility in business activity; • risks related to government regulation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership; and • cost of entry. One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s international operations and its business and operating results. Time Warner’s businesses face additional risks internationally. Across the media industry, opportunities for revenue growth are beginning to shift toward developing nations, such as India, Mexico, Brazil, Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and China. In addition, revenues generated by certain media sectors, including television networks, local content production, online advertising and video games, are expected to experience robust growth in both developed and developing nations outside the U.S. The Company’s businesses currently do not have a strong presence in some of these fast-growing sectors. Accordingly, the Company could be at a competitive disadvantage in the long term if its businesses are not able to strengthen their positions and capitalize on international opportunities in high-growth economies and media sectors. International expansion involves significant investments as well as risks associated with doing business abroad, as described above. Furthermore, investments in some regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return and in some cases there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights. In addition, if the Company expands into new international regions, some of its businesses will have only limited experience in operating and marketing their products and services in certain regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more experience, particularly diversified media companies that are well established in some developing nations. Although the Company is seeking to expand its businesses in certain strategic international regions and is formulating strategies for the growth of diversified media businesses in developing nations, there can be no assurance that such strategies will succeed. Weakening economic conditions or other factors could reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such revenues. Because several of the Company’s segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, such as recessions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. In addition, advertising expenditures could be negatively affected by shifting societal norms, pressure from public interest groups, changes in laws and regulations and other social, political and regulatory developments. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive, financial services and pharmaceutical industries, represent a significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues, and any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. Also, a continued downturn in the U.S. housing market could negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new basic video subscribers and generate increased subscription revenues. In addition, because many of the products and services offered by the Company are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions or outlook could reduce the consumption of such products and services and reduce the Company’s revenues. The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing, Networks and 33 Table of Contents Filmed Entertainment segments. The Company’s Publishing and Networks segments derive a substantial portion of their revenue from advertising in magazines and on television. Distribution of news, entertainment and other information via the Internet has become increasingly popular over the past several years, and viewing news, entertainment and other content on a personal computer, cellular phone or other electronic or portable electronic device has become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift from traditional media to online media. The shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from traditional to online media has had an adverse effect on the revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which may continue in the future. This shift could also further intensify competition for advertising in traditional media, which could exert greater pressure on these segments to increase revenues from online advertising. In addition, if consumers increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment online instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s magazines, this trend could negatively impact the segment’s circulation revenue and also adversely affect its advertising revenue. The Publishing and Networks segments have taken various steps to diversify the means by which they distribute content and generate advertising revenue, including increasing investments in Internet properties. However, the segments’ strategies for achieving sustained revenue growth may not be sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional to online media. In addition, this trend also could have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. The Company faces risks relating to competition for the leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. In addition to the various competitive factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all of the Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. The Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other sources of news, information and entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games, sports, print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for the Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, the Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer. Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and information systems or other technology, and a disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s businesses. Because network and information systems and other technologies are critical to many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s various businesses could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental release or loss of information maintained in the Company’s information technology systems and networks, including customer, personnel and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time Warner and its businesses and have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information, the 34 Table of Contents potential misuse of such information and legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal information, information-related risks are increasing, particularly for businesses like Time Warner’s that handle a large amount of personal customer data. The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses are subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally, which could cause these businesses to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt their business practices. The Company’s businesses that generate revenues from online activities and the sale of advertising inventory and related services are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as consumer protection, content regulation, user privacy and data protection, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, gambling, sweepstakes, promotions, billing and real estate. The application of these laws and regulations to these businesses in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Further, the application of laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of the Company’s advertisers, including the distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content, tobacco or firearms, insurance and securities brokerage and legal services, can be unclear and is developing, especially with respect to the sale of these products and services on the Internet. Various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, such as the Children’s Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses could incur substantial costs necessary to comply with these laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if they fail to comply with them. Compliance with these laws and regulations also could cause these businesses to change or limit their business practices in a manner that is adverse to the businesses. In addition, if there are changes in laws, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, that provide protections that the Company’s Internet or advertising businesses rely on in conducting their businesses or if there are judicial interpretations narrowing the protections of these laws, it would subject these businesses to greater risk of liability and could increase their costs of compliance or limit their ability to operate certain lines of business. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS The continuing shift in AOL’s business model from a primarily subscription-based business model to a primarily advertising-supported model involves significant risks. In addition to continuing to implement the shift in its business model, AOL is working to separate the operations of its Access Services business and its Global Web Services business. As AOL has continued to implement the shift in its business model, AOL’s subscription revenues have been declining, and, although its advertising revenues have been increasing, they have not increased in an amount sufficient to offset the decline in its subscription revenues. Subscription revenues will remain an important source of operating income before depreciation and amortization (or OIBDA) for AOL in 2008. If subscribers to AOL’s Internet access service decline at a rate faster than anticipated, AOL’s ability to generate OIBDA in 2008 may be adversely affected. In addition, as subscription revenues continue to decline, AOL will become more dependent on continued cost reductions and advertising revenues in order to improve its financial performance. Identifying and implementing cost reductions may become increasingly difficult to do in an operationally effective manner and may lead to employee distraction or a decline in morale, as well as difficulty in hiring or retaining necessary employees. Cost reductions could also impair AOL’s ability to provide satisfactory customer service. As AOL continues to implement the shift in its business model, it becomes increasingly prone to the risks associated with operating an advertising business. Advertising revenues may be more unpredictable and variable than subscription revenues and are more likely to be adversely affected during economic downturns. In addition, AOL’s advertising business has benefited from significant growth in online advertising, and, if online advertising does not continue to grow, whether because of changing economic conditions or otherwise, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely impacted. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Weakening economic conditions or other factors could reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such revenues,” as well as the risks relating to AOL’s advertising business described below. Pricing for advertising may continue to face downward pressure. During 2007, advertisers increasingly purchased lower-priced inventory rather than higher-priced inventory, and increasingly demanded lower pricing, in addition to increasingly purchasing advertising inventory from third party advertising networks as described below. 35 Table of Contents In order for advertising revenues to be maintained or increased in 2008 over 2007, AOL believes that it will be important to increase sales of advertising at higher prices. If advertisers continue to demand lower-priced inventory and continue to put downward pressure on pricing, AOL’s operating margins and its ability to generate OIBDA could be adversely affected. Costs to acquire advertising inventory could continue to increase. The Platform-A business group must purchase inventory that can be sold to advertisers. AOL’s costs to acquire advertising inventory from third parties increased during 2007. Continuing increases in such costs during 2008, due to competition for inventory or otherwise, could put downward pressure on AOL’s operating margins or impair its ability to generate OIBDA. AOL faces risks associated with the fragmentation of the Internet audience. Consumers are fragmenting across the Internet, away from portals, such as AOL.com and Yahoo!, and migrating towards social networks and niche websites. This shift could require AOL to continue to acquire other companies, products or technologies or pay more for content, applications, features and tools that will attract and engage Internet consumers in order to increase advertising revenues. Furthermore, as Internet consumers continue to fragment, advertisers could increasingly seek to purchase advertising from third-party advertising networks or directly on niche sites, which could benefit the Platform-A business group but would adversely impact the advertising revenue generated on the AOL Network. Unless AOL increases the number of visitors to the AOL Network and maintains or increases their activity in areas where advertising revenues are generated, AOL may not be able to increase advertising revenues associated with the AOL Network. In general, current and former subscribers are significantly more active on the AOL Network than other visitors to the AOL Network. As the number of AOL’s subscribers declines, AOL’s ability to maintain or increase advertising revenues may be adversely impacted unless the former subscribers are as active on the AOL Network after terminating their paid Internet access relationship with AOL as they were previously. In addition, AOL needs to increase the number of visitors, whether or not current or former subscribers, to the AOL Network and maintain or increase overall usage in order to continue to increase advertising revenues associated with the AOL Network. Furthermore, different online activities generate different volumes of advertising, sold at differing prices. It will be important that new visitors to the AOL Network be active on those properties that generate generally higher priced and higher volumes of advertising, leading to greater advertising revenues, and that as subscribers migrate to become unpaid accounts, their activity on the AOL Network continues in a manner similar to their activity before such migration. If AOL does not continue to develop and offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. In order to attract Internet consumers and generate increased activity on the AOL Network, AOL believes that it must offer compelling and differentiated content, products and services. However, acquiring, developing and offering such content, products and services may require significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If AOL is unable to provide content, products and services that are sufficiently attractive to its current and former subscribers and other Internet consumers, AOL may not be able to generate the increases in activity on the AOL Network necessary to generate increased paid-search and display advertising revenues. In addition, although AOL has access to certain content provided by the Company’s other businesses, it may be required to make substantial payments to license such content. Many of AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or identical content. If AOL is unable to acquire or develop compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is similar to that provided by AOL, AOL may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of Internet consumers on the AOL Network. Continued growth in AOL’s advertising business also depends on the ability of the Platform-A business group to continue offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and services for advertisers and publishers and its ability to maintain or increase prices for its advertising products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these products and services may require significant time and costs. If the Platform-A business group cannot continue to develop and improve its advertising products and services or if prices for its advertising products and services decrease, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. If AOL cannot secure favorable arrangements to effectively distribute its products and services, it could hinder AOL’s ability to attract new Internet consumers or maintain or increase the engagement of Internet 36 Table of Contents consumers. Distribution of AOL’s products and services is subject to significant competition. Furthermore, as the Internet audience continues to fragment and traffic continues to gravitate away from the Internet portals, distribution of AOL’s products and services via traditional methods may become less effective, and new distribution strategies may need to be developed. In an effort to reach a more fragmented audience, AOL is creating versions of certain of its products and services for consumer distribution that will generate activity on the AOL Network. Additionally, AOL seeks to develop technologies to allow AOL Network sites to interact with other websites and applications in order to allow and encourage third parties to use AOL’s content and services. However, even if AOL is able to secure favorable arrangements to distribute its products and services, this does not assure that AOL will be able to attract new Internet consumers and maintain or increase the engagement of Internet consumers on the AOL Network. More individuals are using devices other than personal and laptop computers to access and use the Internet, and if AOL cannot make its products and services available and attractive to consumers via these alternative devices, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected. Individuals increasingly are accessing and using the Internet through devices other than a personal or laptop computer, such as personal digital assistants or mobile telephones, which differ from computers with respect to memory, functionality, resolution and screen size. In order for consumers to access and use AOL’s products and services via these alternative devices, AOL must ensure that its products and services are technologically compatible with such devices. AOL also needs to secure arrangements with device manufacturers and wireless carriers in order to have desktop placement on the alternative devices and to more effectively reach consumers. If AOL cannot effectively make its products and services available on alternative devices, fewer Internet consumers may access and use AOL’s products and services. Also, the Platform-A business group must be able to compose, package, and deliver compelling advertising on alternative devices, and the advertising revenue it generates may be negatively affected if it is not able to effectively do so. If AOL cannot effectively build a portfolio of alternate brands that are appealing to Internet consumers, AOL may have difficulty in increasing the engagement of Internet consumers on its web products and services. AOL believes that the “AOL” brand is associated in the minds of consumers with its dial-up Internet access service, and AOL is seeking to build a portfolio of other brands, such as MapQuest and TMZ.com, that have a strong and more updated consumer association. If the AOL brand continues to be used to identify the AOL dial-up Internet access service as well as various web products and services, such as AOL.com, AOL Money & Finance and myAOL, this could lead to consumer confusion and exacerbate the challenges AOL faces in attracting Internet consumers to and engaging them on its web products and services. Changes in AOL’s relationship with a major customer of Advertising.com will put downward pressure on AOL’s advertising revenues in 2008. Approximately 17% of AOL’s growth in advertising revenues in 2007 was attributable to a major customer of Advertising.com. As a result of an amendment to the contract with this customer, beginning in 2008, this customer is under no obligation to continue to do business with Advertising.com, which is expected to result in a substantial reduction in advertising revenues to be received from this customer. Accordingly, if AOL does not secure new or expanded relationships with other customers in amounts sufficient to offset any loss of revenues from the customer, it will not be able to maintain or increase advertising revenues. AOL faces intense competition in all aspects of its business. In its Internet access business, AOL competes with other Internet access providers, especially broadband access providers, and this competition could cause the number of AOL subscribers to decline at a faster rate than experienced in the past. With respect to advertising generated on the AOL Network, AOL competes for the time and attention of consumers with a wide range of Internet companies, such as Yahoo!, Google, MSN, MySpace and Facebook, and traditional media companies, which are increasingly offering their own Internet products and services. The competition AOL’s advertising businesses face could intensify when Google’s acquisition of DoubleClick is completed and if Microsoft’s proposed acquisition of Yahoo! or other similar consolidations occur. The Internet is dynamic and rapidly evolving, and new and popular competitors, such as social networking sites, frequently emerge. AOL’s Platform-A business group competes with other aggregators of third-party advertising inventory and other companies offering competing advertising products, technology and services, as well as, increasingly, aggregators of such advertising products, technology and services. Competitors include such companies as 24/7 Real Media and ValueClick, as well as Google, Yahoo! and MSN. Competition among these companies is intensifying and may lead to continuing increases in traffic acquisition costs and continuing decreases in prices for advertising inventory. Following the 37 Table of Contents sales of its Internet access businesses, AOL Europe’s primary competitors are global enterprises such as Google, MSN, and Yahoo!, new entrants such as Facebook, MySpace and other social networking sites and a large number of local enterprises. As AOL expands internationally, it will face intense competition from both global and local competitors. In addition, competition generally may cause AOL to incur unanticipated costs associated with research and product development. There can be no assurance that AOL will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing or potential competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations. Acquisitions of other companies could have an adverse impact on AOL’s operations and result in unanticipated liabilities. During 2007, AOL acquired six companies and expects to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. If AOL does not effectively integrate the operations and systems of the Platform-A companies (including ADTECH, Quigo and TACODA), it could negatively affect AOL’s ability to compete effectively and increase advertising revenues. The completion of acquisitions and strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses involve a substantial commitment of resources. In addition, past or future transactions may be accompanied by a number of risks, including: • the uncertainty of AOL’s returns on investment due to the new and developing industries (e.g., mobile advertising) in which some of the acquired companies operate; • the adverse impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities, such as claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, associated with the companies acquired or in which AOL invests; • the difficulty of integrating technology, administrative systems, personnel and operations of acquired companies into AOL’s services, systems and operations and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • potential loss of key talent at acquired companies; • the potential disruption of AOL’s on-going business and distraction of its management; • additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses AOL acquires or in which it invests and the failure of such businesses to perform as expected; • the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • the difficulty of reconciling possibly conflicting or overlapping contractual rights and duties; and • the impairment of relationships with customers, partners and employees as a result of the combination of acquired operations and new management personnel. The failure to successfully address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and strategic investments could cause AOL to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions and incur unanticipated liabilities and could harm its business and operating results. New or changing federal, state or international privacy legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of AOL’s business. A variety of federal, state and international laws govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data that AOL uses to operate its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the growth of AOL’s business. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or requirements or with AOL’s own policies and procedures could result in significant liabilities, including a possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers or advertisers. 38 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S CABLE BUSINESS TWC may continue to face challenges in its systems in Dallas, Texas and Los Angeles, California. TWC continues to face challenges in the Dallas, Texas and Los Angeles, California systems, most of which were acquired in the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions. During 2007, TWC undertook a significant integration effort that included upgrading the capacity and technical performance of these systems to levels that allow the delivery of advanced services and features. However, the historical negative perception of cable service in Dallas and Los Angeles, due in part to the service provided by predecessor cable operators, could hinder TWC’s efforts to attract new customers. In addition, the competition in Dallas and Los Angeles from Verizon and AT&T, is intense. As a result, the Dallas and Los Angeles systems could be unable to meaningfully improve their financial performance, which could adversely affect TWC’s growth, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in programming costs or an inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s operations, business or financial results. Video programming costs represent a major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to increase, reflecting the increasing cost of obtaining desirable programming, particularly sports programming, as well as subscriber growth and the expansion of service offerings. It is expected that TWC’s video service margins will decline over the next few years as programming cost increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, current and future programming providers that supply content that is desirable to TWC’s subscribers may be unwilling to enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms. In addition, owners of non-broadcast video programming content may enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact TWC’s subscription and advertising revenues. TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could negatively affect its business and financial results. TWC’s industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal competitors, direct broadcast satellite (or “DBS”) operators and incumbent local telephone companies, in particular, offer services that provide features and functions comparable to the video, high-speed data and/or voice services that TWC offers, and they are offering them in bundles similar to TWC’s. The telephone and DBS companies aggressively market their individual products as well as their bundles or synthetic bundles (i.e., video services provided principally by the DBS operator, and digital subscriber line service, traditional phone service and, in some cases, wireless service provided by the telephone company). These competitors try to distinguish their services from TWC’s by offering aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, a bundle including their own or an affiliate’s wireless voice service and/or assertions of superior service or offerings. In addition to these competitors, TWC faces competition on individual services from a range of competitors, including, in video, SMATV and video delivered to consumers over the Internet; in high speed data, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless, broadband over power line providers and municipal Wi-Fi services; and in voice, cellular telephone service providers and Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others. Furthermore, TWC operates its cable systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local authorities. In some of TWC’s operating areas, other operators have overbuilt TWC’s systems and offer video, data and/or voice services in competition with TWC. Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues, reduce the number of its subscribers or reduce its ability to increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and enhanced products and services, it may be subject to competition from other providers of those products and services, such as telecommunications providers, Internet service providers and consumer electronics companies, among others. In addition, future advances in technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments, may result in changes to the competitive landscape. TWC cannot predict the extent to which competition will affect its future business and financial results or return on capital expenditures. Significant unanticipated increases in the use of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase TWC’s costs. The rising popularity of bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks for TWC’s high-speed data business. Examples of such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming 39 Table of Contents services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and by download. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers may have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s high-speed data service. In addition, in order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to TWC’s broadband facilities. TWC’s ability to do these things could be restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net neutrality” requirements on cable operators. Availability of SDV technology may not enable TWC to effectively manage its existing bandwidth. As of December 31, 2007, TWC had deployed switched digital video, or SDV, technology to over 1.4 million digital video subscribers, and TWC intends to further deploy this technology during 2008. SDV allows TWC to save bandwidth by transmitting particular programming services only to groups of homes or nodes where subscribers are viewing the programming at a particular time rather than broadcasting it to all subscriber homes. Deploying SDV requires installation of new hardware and software at each cable system where it is employed. In addition, bandwidth savings are based on the actual viewing habits of subscribers. As a result, TWC may experience operational difficulties in deploying SDV and may not realize all of the efficiencies it anticipates from the deployment of this technology. In addition, the FCC may interpret existing regulation or introduce new regulation to restrict cable operators’ ability to use SDV technology. If TWC experiences operational difficulties in deploying SDV, if TWC is unable to gain anticipated additional network capacity as a result of its SDV deployment plans or if TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV technology, TWC may have difficulty carrying the volume of HDTV channels and other bandwidth-intensive traffic carried by competitors and may be forced to make costly upgrades to its systems in order to remain competitive. The Internal Revenue Service and state and local tax authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions or the Exchange, or related valuations, and any successful challenge by the Internal Revenue Service or state or local tax authorities could materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile, significantly increase its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however, that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such characterizations or the related valuations. Such a successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile (including its ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from these transactions), significantly increase its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and local income tax laws to various transactions and events contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation. TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases the scale of its video, high-speed data and voice offerings to commercial customers. TWC has sold video and high-speed data services to businesses for some time and in 2007 introduced an IP-based telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations, its commercial services business could be adversely affected. In addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to successfully attract and keep commercial customers, its growth, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could adversely affect its business. TWC’s video and voice services are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. In addition, the federal government also has been exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services. Additional 40 Table of Contents regulation, including regulation relating to rates, equipment, technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and other charges, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s services. If the United States Congress (“Congress”) or regulators were to disallow the use of certain technologies TWC uses today or to mandate the implementation of other technologies, TWC’s services and results of operations could suffer. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities providing video, data and voice services under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business operations in areas such as: • Cable Franchising. At the federal level, various provisions have been introduced in connection with broader Communications Act reform that would streamline the video franchising process to facilitate entry by new competitors. To date, no such measures have been adopted by Congress. In December 2006, the FCC adopted new regulations intended to limit the ability of local franchising authorities to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises, which could facilitate entry by TWC’s competitors into areas where TWC operates. At the state level, several states, including California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry by additional video competitors, some of which provide more favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers. Similar bills are pending or may be enacted in additional states. To the extent federal or state laws or regulations facilitate additional competitive entry or create more favorable regulatory treatment for new entrants, TWC’s operations could be materially and adversely affected. • À la carte Video Services. There has from time to time been federal legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled programming services on an à la carte basis, which could alter the cost structure of TWC’s services. Currently, no such legislation is pending and there are no pending proceedings related to à la carte video services at the FCC, although the FCC is examining the question of whether programming must be sold to multichannel video programming distributors, or MVPDs, at the wholesale level on an unbundled basis. • Carriage Regulations. In September 2007, the FCC adopted an order that will require cable operators that offer at least some analog service (i.e., are not operating “all-digital” systems) to provide to subscribers both analog and digital feeds of must-carry broadcast stations beginning February 18, 2009. If TWC is not able to obtain a waiver of this requirement for its smaller systems from the FCC, there is a risk that TWC will be forced to invest capital to upgrade the systems, sell them or shut them down, or be required to drop more popular programming services in order to carry the dual feeds. Currently, this obligation is scheduled to terminate in February 2012, subject to FCC review. In addition, in November 2007, the FCC revised its leased access rules by further lowering the permitted rate charged to most leased access programmers, as well as adopting new procedural and complaint provisions, and the FCC is seeking further comment on whether to extend the new rate methodology to program-length commercial and sales programming. To the extent the FCC extends the new rate methodology to other programming, TWC’s revenues could be adversely affected. The FCC also has launched a proceeding to examine its substantive and procedural rules for program carriage. TWC is unable to predict whether any such proceedings will lead to any material changes in existing regulations. Any change in the existing carriage regulations could restrict TWC’s ability to select programming that is attractive to its subscribers. • Voice Communications. Traditional providers of voice services generally are subject to significant regulations. It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or other regulations) apply to providers of nontraditional voice services, including TWC’s. In orders over the past several years, the FCC subjected nontraditional voice service providers to a number of obligations applicable to traditional voice service. To the extent that the FCC (or Congress) imposes additional burdens, TWC’s operations could be adversely affected. “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business profitably, to manage its broadband facilities efficiently and to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data customers. Several disparate groups have adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that 41 Table of Contents could limit the ability of broadband providers to apply differential pricing or network management policies to different uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers. The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of applications available on the Internet continue to grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make upgrades to its broadband facilities. As a result, depending on the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades that may be needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability to compete effectively. Several petitions have been filed with the FCC asking it to adopt regulations in this area; however, TWC is unable to predict the likelihood that such regulatory proposals will be adopted. RISKS RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and standards to remain competitive and continue to increase their revenue. Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment industry is changing rapidly, and advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, new video formats and distribution via the Internet, have led to alternative methods of product delivery and storage. Certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, devices that allow users to view television programs or motion pictures from a remote location may cause changes in consumer behavior that could negatively affect the subscription revenue of cable system and direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, operators and telephone companies and therefore have a corresponding negative effect on the subscription revenue generated by the Networks segment and the licensing revenue generated by the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Devices such as digital video recorders, or DVRs, that enable users to view television programs or motion pictures on a time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip advertisements or network-based deployments of DVR-like technology may cause changes in consumer behavior that could adversely affect the advertising revenue of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. In addition, further increased use of portable digital devices that allow users to view content of their own choice, at a time of their choice, while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could adversely affect such advertising and licensing revenue. Technological developments also pose other challenges for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are developed. In addition, technological developments could enable third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home Box Office, and deal directly with cable system and DBS operators and telephone companies or other businesses that develop to offer content to viewers. Such limitations on the ability of the segments to distribute their content could have an adverse impact on their revenue. Cable system and DBS operators are developing new techniques that enable them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and potentially furthering the development of more specialized niche audiences. A greater number of options increases competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may improve their competitive position compared to the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments for television advertising and for subscription and licensing revenue. In addition, traditional audience measures have evolved with emerging technologies that can measure viewing audiences with improved sensitivity, which has resulted in changes to the basis for pricing and guaranteeing the advertising contracts of the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment. There may be future technical and marketplace developments that will result in new audience measurements that may be used as the basis for the 42 Table of Contents pricing and guaranteeing of such advertising. Any significant decrease in measured audiences for advertising on the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment could have a significant negative impact on the advertising revenue of such networks and the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment as well as the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. The ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will affect the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to continue to grow and increase their revenue. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in highly competitive industries. The Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses generate revenue primarily through the production and distribution of feature films, television programming and home video products, licensing fees, the sale of advertising and subscriber fees paid by affiliates. Competition faced by the businesses within these segments is intense and comes from many different sources. For example: • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with other television programming services for marketing and distribution by cable, satellite and other distribution systems, and the production divisions in these segments compete with other producers and distributors of television programming for air time on broadcast, cable and DBS networks, independent commercial television stations and basic and pay cable television services. • The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for viewers’ attention and audience share with other forms of programming and entertainment provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, basic and pay cable television services, motion pictures, home video, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, Internet streaming and downloading, Internet sites providing social networking and user-generated content, interactive games and other online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. • The Networks segment faces competition for programming with commercial television networks, independent stations, and basic and pay cable television services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion picture studios and independent motion picture distributors. • The advertising-supported networks and Turner’s Internet sites in the Networks segment compete for advertising with numerous direct competitors and other media. The ability of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments to compete successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to provide high-quality and popular entertainment product and their ability to achieve high distribution levels. There has been consolidation in the media industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry participants with interests in other multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated. Such vertical integration could have various negative effects on the competitive position of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, vertical integration of other television networks and television and film production companies could adversely impact the Networks segment if it hinders the ability of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks. In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase their programming from production companies with which they are affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing revenue and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. There can be no assurance that the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have an adverse effect on their businesses or results of operations. Although piracy poses risks to several of Time Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the prevalence of piracy of feature films and television programming. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television programming and other content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its business and profitability.” The popularity of the Company’s television programs and films and other factors is difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Television 43 Table of Contents program and film production and distribution are inherently risky businesses largely because the revenue derived from the production and distribution of a television program or motion picture, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with a program or film, depends primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television program or feature film also depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and films released at or near the same time, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict. In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are also factors that are weighed when determining their advertising rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertiser demand. Further, the theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay television programming services, and sales of licensed consumer products. Therefore, low public acceptance of the television programs or feature films of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may adversely affect their respective results of operations. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject to labor interruption. The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors, trade employees and others who are covered by collective bargaining agreements and who are involved in the development and production of motion pictures and television programs. On November 5, 2007, the Writers Guild of America (East and West) (the “WGA”) commenced an industry-wide strike following the expiration of its collective bargaining agreement on October 31, 2007, primarily due to the failure of the WGA to come to agreement with content producers over the revenue derived from exhibition of filmed entertainment content on new media platforms. In February 2007, content producers and the WGA reached an agreement on these issues, thereby ending the strike, and in January 2007 content producers and the Directors Guild of America (the “DGA”) came to an agreement on similar issues. The WGA strike has caused delays in the production of the segments’ feature films and television programs and the development of new television series. These delays could result in increased costs when resuming production. The collective bargaining agreements between content producers and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (“AFTRA”) and the Screen Actors Guild (“SAG”) that cover the services of actors on feature films and network-prime-time television programs expire on June 30, 2008. Industry-wide negotiations with SAG and AFTRA, which will address similar new media issues to those addressed in the WGA and DGA negotiations, are scheduled to commence in March 2008. SAG and AFTRA could take actions in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages if agreements are not reached before their respective contracts expire. Such actions could cause additional delays in the production or the release dates of the segments’ feature films and television programs, as well as higher costs resulting either from such actions or less favorable terms of these agreements on renewal. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and results of operations. Several factors, including increasing competition for consumer discretionary spending, piracy, the maturation of the DVD format, increased competition for retailer shelf space and the fragmentation of consumer leisure time, are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally. The high definition format war between the HD DVD and Blu-ray formats has slowed consumer adoption of those technologies. In January 2008, Warner Bros. announced that, starting in June 2008, it will release its content exclusively in the Blu-ray format. Nevertheless, consumer uncertainty may continue to slow widespread adoption of a new high definition format or lead consumers to forego adopting a high definition DVD format altogether, which would adversely affect DVD sales. DVD sales also may be affected as consumers increasingly shift from consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of entertainment. The filmed entertainment industry faces a challenge in managing the transition from physical to digital formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD business and its relationships with large retail customers and yet meets the growing consumer demand for delivery of filmed entertainment in a variety of digital formats. There can be no assurance that home video wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing, digital competition and other factors. A continuing decline in DVD sales could have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations and growth prospects. 44 Table of Contents The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes the release of a limited number of “event” films each year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s results of operations and financial condition. The Filmed Entertainment segment expects to theatrically release a limited number of feature films each year that are expected to be “event” or “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher production and marketing costs than the other films released during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box office success and international box office success, as well as a correlation between box office success and success in the subsequent distribution channels of home video and television. If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office success, the results of operations and financial condition of the Filmed Entertainment segment could be adversely affected. Further, there can be no assurance that these historical correlations will continue in the future. The costs of producing and marketing feature films have increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit. The production and marketing of feature films require substantial capital, and the costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. As production and marketing costs increase, it creates a greater need to generate revenue internationally or from other media, such as home video, television and new media. Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the amortization of film production costs. The Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenue from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment. A decrease in demand for television product could adversely affect Warner Bros.’ revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the number of original programs ordered by the networks and the per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near term. In addition, such a decrease in demand could lead to a reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and vertical integration between station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical integration between television production studios and broadcast networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the failure of ratings for the programming to meet expectations and the shift of viewers and advertisers away from network television to other entertainment and information outlets could adversely affect the amount of original programming ordered by networks and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming. Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an accompanying loss of advertising revenue as viewers move to other entertainment outlets, which may negatively impact the segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the increasing popularity of local television content in international markets also could result in decreased demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and syndication revenue for U.S. television content. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and further consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors could adversely affect the segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliation agreements with cable system and DBS operators and telephone companies for the distribution of its networks and services, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The 45 Table of Contents renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of any one of these arrangements representing a significant number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenue. The loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities with any distributor of the segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenue. In addition, further consolidation among cable system and DBS operators has provided greater negotiating power to such distributors, and increased vertical integration of such distributors could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or obtain distribution and/or marketing for its networks and services on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to popular programming or create popular original programming could adversely affect the segment’s revenue. The Networks segment obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed programming, including sports programming, is made available based on programming rights of varying durations that it has negotiated with third parties. Home Box Office also enters into commitments to acquire rights to feature films and other programming for its HBO and Cinemax pay television programming services from feature film producers and other suppliers for varying durations. Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing contract costs. Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, may create their own networks. The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability to develop strong brand awareness and to target key areas of the television viewing audience, including both newer demographics and preferences for particular genres, as well as its ability to continue to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Networks segment derives a portion of its revenue from the exploitation of the Company’s library of feature films, animated titles and television titles. If the content of the Company’s programming libraries ceases to be of interest to audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular original content, the revenue of the Networks segment could be adversely affected. Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the Networks segment. As described above, the Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and sports events, from movie studios, television production companies and sports organizations. For example, Home Box Office relies on film studios for a significant portion of its content. In addition, the Turner networks have obtained the rights to produce and broadcast significant sports events such as the NBA play-offs, the Major League Baseball play-offs and a series of NASCAR races. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds the amount of quality content available, the networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased costs with higher advertising and/or subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be adversely affected. The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs costs for new show concepts and all types of creative talent, including actors, writers and producers. The segment incurs additional significant costs, such as newsgathering and marketing costs. Unless they are offset by increased revenue, increases in the costs of creative talent or in production, newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to decreased profits at the Networks segment. The maturity of the U.S. video services business, together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely affect the future revenue growth of the Networks segment. The U.S. video services business generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact on 46 Table of Contents the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance to wholesale programming price increases, and programming distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other than video, such as high-speed data and voice services. Also, consumers’ basic cable rates have continued to increase, which could cause consumers to cancel their cable or satellite service subscriptions. The inability of the Networks segment to implement measures to maintain future revenue growth may adversely affect its business. Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of the Networks segment. The multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States, as well as cable networks, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations of the Networks segment. For example, policymakers have expressed interest in exploring whether cable operators should offer “à la carte” programming to subscribers on a network-by-network basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers, and a number of cable operators, including TWC, have voluntarily agreed to offer family tiers. The FCC also is examining the manner in which some programming distributors package or bundle services sold to distributors; the same conduct is at issue in industry-wide antitrust litigation pending in Federal court in Los Angeles, in which the plaintiffs seek to prohibit wholesale bundling practices prospectively. The unbundling or tiering of program services may reduce the distribution of certain cable networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and may affect the segment’s ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. Policymakers have also raised concerns about the potential impact on childhood obesity rates of food and beverage advertising during children’s television programming. Any decline in subscribers could lead to a decrease in the segment’s advertising and subscription revenues. The Networks segment is unable to predict whether any new or revised regulations will result from these activities. There also has been consideration of the extension of indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter enforcement of existing laws and rules. If such an extension or attempt to increase enforcement occurred and were upheld, the content of the Networks segment could be subject to additional regulation, which could affect subscriber and viewership levels. Moreover, the determination of whether content is indecent is inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether particular content would violate indecency standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and results of operations of the Networks segment. RISKS RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS The Publishing segment faces significant competition for advertising and audience. The Publishing segment faces significant competition from several direct competitors and other media, including the Internet. The Publishing segment’s magazine and website operations compete for circulation and audience with numerous other magazine and website publishers and other media. The Publishing segment’s magazine and website operations also compete with other magazine and website publishers and other media for advertising directed at the general public and at more focused demographic groups. Time Inc.’s direct marketing operations compete with other direct marketers across all media, including the Internet, for the consumer’s attention. Competition for advertising revenue is primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and size of audience (including the circulation and readership of magazines and the number of unique visitors to and page views of websites), audience response to advertisers’ products and services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in magazine and website publishing include product positioning, editorial quality, price and customer service, which impact audience, circulation revenue and advertising revenue. The magazine and website publishing businesses present few barriers to entry and many new magazines and websites are launched annually across multiple sectors. In recent years competitors have launched and/or repositioned many magazines and websites, primarily in the celebrity, women’s service and business sectors, that compete directly with People, InStyle, Real Simple, Fortune and other Publishing segment magazines, as well as the segment’s websites. This has 47 Table of Contents resulted in increased competition, especially at newsstands and mass retailers and particularly for celebrity and entertainment magazines. The Company anticipates that it will face continuing competition from these new competitors, and it is possible that additional competitors may enter the magazine and website publishing businesses and further intensify competition, which could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenue. In addition, websites that charge users for access may shift to a free-to-user advertising model, which could negatively affect the competitive position of the segment’s websites. The Publishing segment has in recent years made various changes in its magazine circulation practices and consequently faces new challenges in identifying new subscribers and increasing circulation, which could have an adverse impact not only on its circulation revenue but also on its advertising revenue. Although the shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media poses risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s revenue is derived from the sale of advertising. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally — The introduction and increased popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and/or advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing, Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments.” The Publishing segment could face increased costs and business disruption resulting from instability in the newsstand distribution channel. The Publishing segment operates a national distribution business that relies on wholesalers to distribute magazines published by the Publishing segment and other publishers to newsstands and other retail outlets. Due to industry consolidation, four wholesalers represent approximately 80% of the wholesale magazine distribution business in the U.S. There is a possibility of further consolidation among these wholesalers and/or insolvency of one or more of these wholesalers. Should there be a disruption in this wholesale channel it could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income and cash flow, including temporarily impeding the Publishing segment’s ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace. The Publishing segment’s operating income could decrease as a result of rising paper costs. The Publishing segment’s principal raw material is paper, and paper prices have fluctuated over the past several years. In addition, the paper industry is undergoing certain consolidation and ownership changes which could impact paper prices. Accordingly, if there are significant unanticipated increases in paper prices and the Publishing segment is not able to offset these increases, they could have a negative impact on the segment’s operating income. The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various regulatory and legislative matters, including changes in Audit Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in regulation of direct marketing. The Publishing segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy), the FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and the FTC Telemarketing Sales Rule. Other statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data security and telemarketing. New statutes and regulations are adopted frequently. In addition, the Publishing segment’s magazine subscription activities are subject to the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations. New rules, as well as new interpretations of existing rules, are periodically adopted by the Audit Bureau of Circulations and could lead to changes in the segment’s magazine circulation practices that could have a negative effect on the segment’s ability to generate new magazine subscriptions, meet rate bases and support advertising sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 48 Table of Contents 