D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history as an software licensing and online entertainment provider and an online games operator, and the unproven long-term potential of those business models make evaluating our business and prospects difficult We acquired our software licensing and online entertainment business, CESL, in April 2004 and our online games business, comprised of the game platforms of FunTown and T2CN, in January 2006 and June 2007, respectively. We launched new poker software products in 2004, which generated approximately 2 percent, 18 percent and 56 percent of total software licensing and online entertainment revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. In addition, the senior management teams of our different businesses and our employees have worked together at our Company for only a relatively short period of time. As a result, we have a limited relevant operating history as a software licensing and online entertainment developer and an online games operator for you to evaluate. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies using new and unproven business models and entering new and rapidly evolving markets, including the online gaming and online games markets. These risks may include our potential failure to: • retain existing customers or attract new customers; • license, develop, or acquire additional online games that are appealing to consumers; • anticipate and adapt to changing consumer preferences; 4 Table of Contents • adapt to competitive market conditions; • adapt to regulatory changes; • respond to technological changes or resolve unexpected service interruptions in a timely manner; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platforms; or • maintain adequate control of our expenses. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the risks listed above, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our businesses face intense competition, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and planned business expansion We face competition from many competitors, and we expect to face additional competition from potential competitors, including those with: • significantly greater technological, financial, sales and marketing resources; • larger customer bases and longer operating histories; • greater name recognition; and • more established relationships with distribution partners, advertisers, content and application providers and/or other strategic partners. Competition in the software licensing and online entertainment business The Internet gaming software industry is characterized by rapid technological change and we face significant and intense competition from online gaming software design houses and application service providers. Given the relatively low barriers to entry into the software industry and the increasing popularity of Internet-based businesses, we face a large number of potential competitors from many different segments of software and Internet industries. Traditional entertainment service providers, many of which have financial resources significantly greater than ours, might expand and provide Internet-based entertainment services. Such Internet service providers and other entertainment service providers may also develop and offer the underlying software solutions and tools to others in direct competition with us. We are also exposed to competition in the Internet gaming industry through our licensees, such as UIM, as license fees with respect to gaming software provided by us typically include a variable fee based on revenues earned by such licensees from the operation of the licensed software. Our major licensee is Ultra Internet Media, S.A. (“UIM”), a provider of Internet gaming services. Although we do not have any equity ownership interest in UIM, in accordance with FIN 46(R), we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements and are entitled to fees from UIM based upon its revenues. For additional information, see Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Certain Significant Events Affecting Our Results of Operations for 2004, 2005 and 2006 — Consolidation of UIM under FIN 46(R)”. Our licensees (including UIM), face strong competition in the online gaming industry. Furthermore, some of our competitors and competitors of our licensees (including UIM) are more established, enjoy greater market recognition, are substantially larger and have substantially greater resources and distribution capabilities than we do. There is no assurance that we or our licensees (including UIM) will be able to compete successfully with existing and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Software Licensing and Online Entertainment Business — Competition” for additional information. 5 Table of Contents Finally, as a result of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (the “UIGEA”) and subsequent closing of the online gaming market in the United States, we and our licensees (including UIM) face increasing competition from entertainment service providers in our markets in Continental Europe, which are also increasingly subject to regulation from governmental authorities. There is no assurance that we or our licensees (including UIM) will be able to compete successfully with existing and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Software Licensing and Online Entertainment Business — Competition” for additional information. Competition in the online games business Our main competitors in the online games business are casual game operators in Taiwan, Hong Kong, the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) and Macau, or Greater China, including Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (“Shanda”), Nineyou (Shanghai Everstar Online Entertainment Co., Ltd.), Tencent Holdings Limited, Ourgames.com (Beijing Globalink Computer Technology Co., Ltd.) and Chinagames.net. Our competitors also include massively multi-player online role-playing game operators in Taiwan, including Gamania Digital Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“Gamania”) and Soft-World International Corporation. We expect more companies to enter the online games industry in Greater China and a wider range of online games to be introduced to the Greater China market, given the relatively low entry barriers to the online games industry. Our competitors vary in size and include large companies such as Shanda, many of which have significant financial, marketing and game development resources as well as name recognition. We may not be able to devote the same degree of resources to designing, developing or acquiring new games, undertaking extensive marketing campaigns, adopting aggressive pricing policies, paying high compensation to game developers or compensating independent game developers as a number of our competitors may be able to do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any new or existing competitors. In June 2007, we acquired control over a majority of the voting rights of T2CN, an online game operator and distributor in the PRC. There is increasing regulation over the online games industry in the PRC, most notably, the “Opinions on the Development and Management of Online Games” and the “Anti-Internet Addiction Regulations”, which (among other things) regulate the online game products allowed to be distributed and operated in China, and require online game operators to install features to identify online game players and to discourage the playing of online games through limiting the time which players may spend on a game and the game awards which may be made to players which have spent more than a specified consecutive number of hours online. As a result of the above, the increased competition we anticipate in the online games industry may reduce the number of our users or growth rate of our user base, reduce the average number of hours played by our users, or cause us to reduce usage fees. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the Internet access service business Our main competitors in the retail broadband Internet service provider (“ISP”) business are fixed-line service providers and other ISPs in Taiwan that offer asymmetrical digital subscriber line (“ADSL”) broadband services, including Chunghwa Telecom’s HiNet, the overwhelmingly dominant provider of broadband services; Taiwan Fixed Network, a fixed-line service provider; and Seednet, SoNet and Asia Pacific Online, which are all ISPs. Our competitors also include cable-based Internet access companies that have developed their own cable-based services and market those services to cable operators and those that are seeking to contract with cable operators to bring their services into geographic areas that are not covered by an exclusive relationship between our Company and our cable partners. Our corporate ISP business faces competition from fixed-line service providers, including Chunghwa Telecom, Taiwan Fixed Network, NCIC’s Sparq and Asia Pacific Online. The primary basis of competition in the Internet access business industry is price. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to attract new subscribers or retain existing subscribers, as a result of which our revenues may decline. Due to this intense competition, there may be limited market opportunities for our broadband access services. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving widespread acceptance of our services before our competitors offer services similar to our current or prospective offerings, which might preclude or delay purchasing decisions by potential subscribers or cause us to lose our existing subscribers. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In recent years, we have experienced a reduction in the number of our new consumer subscribers and our total consumer subscribers, in line with our ongoing strategy to shift resources away from this legacy business. Consistent with our focus on online entertainment, we have retained financial advisors to explore the sale of this legacy business. 6 Table of Contents Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, including leveraging our customer base to develop additional sources of revenues and exploring opportunities to expand into new software licensing and online entertainment business segments. Some of these strategies relate to new services or products for which there are no established markets, or relate to services, products or markets in which we lack experience and expertise. For example, we are currently expanding our online games business to include massively multi-player online role-playing games, or MMORPGs, starting with Hellgate:London and Phantasy Star Universe, which we have licensed in certain territories and expect to launch in the second half of 2007. We are also expanding our online poker software business into new European markets such as Greece, Poland, Finland and Hungary. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated further expansion of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, including those of acquired businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy, which contemplates growth through acquisitions and strategic investments, exposes us to significant risks As a component of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to enhance our business development, including our game content offerings, by acquiring other businesses that complement our current online businesses, or which represent related but new lines of business that we believe to be appropriate areas of expansion, or that we believe may benefit us in terms of user base, product or content offering. We also intend to make selective strategic investments. We will continue to examine the merits, risks and feasibility of potential transactions, and expect to search for additional acquisition opportunities in the future. Such search and examination efforts and any related discussions with third parties, may or may not lead to future acquisitions and investments. Our reported financial results may be affected by any such acquisitions and/or investments, including any acquisitions or dispositions undertaken by us in anticipation of or in connection with any such acquisitions and/or investments. Our ability to grow through such acquisitions and investments will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to reach agreement with acquisition candidates or investee companies on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or investments and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or investment transaction may take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits. Furthermore, the identification and completion of any such transaction may require us to expend significant management and other resources, and may require that we expend a significant portion of our cash reserves and/or issue a substantial amount of new equity, which could adversely affect our financial condition and 7 Table of Contents liquidity and result in significant dilution of our shareholders’ interests. The impact of dilution may restrict our ability to consummate further acquisitions. We may also incur debt and losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets upon or following the acquisition of another business, which could negatively impact our results of operations. For example, we wrote off goodwill associated with our music distribution business in the amount of US$7.0 million in 2002 and US$0.7 million in 2003, respectively, which reduced our profitability in both years. Any write-off of goodwill in the future may have a negative impact on our financial results. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the following: • It may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our own business; • Management, information, and accounting systems of an acquired business would be different from our current systems and would need to be successfully integrated; • Our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; • Suppliers, vendors and/or distributors may renegotiate or cancel contracts with us following the acquisition of a business; • We may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience. For example, in December 2006, we entered into a strategic alliance with Infocomm Asia Holdings Pte Ltd (“Infocomm Asia”), an online gaming operator and distributor operating primarily in the Southeast Asian region and in June 2007, we also acquired control of a majority of the voting rights over T2CN, an online casual sports game operator in China, a business in which we had limited prior experience; and • We may lose some of our key employees or key employees of an acquired business. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark, patent and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of Taiwan, Hong Kong, the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations 8 Table of Contents Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The key factors affecting each of our respective businesses include: • Software licensing and online entertainment business: availability of Internet infrastructure, competition from existing and new competitors, the revenues, expenses and results of operations of our customer and major licensee, UIM, and the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Internet gaming industry. • Online games business: existing and new competitors, the pace of rollout of new games and price competition in the industry, regulatory and other risks arising in connection with our China operations. • Internet access service business: price competition in the Internet access business, the rate at which new customers subscribe to our services, subscriber turnover rates and the pace of rollout of our services. In addition, our operating expenses are based on our expectations of the future demand for our services and are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected demand shortfall. A shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results. The markets for our principal businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, and failure to respond quickly and sufficiently to new Internet technologies or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business The markets for our software licensing and online entertainment business, online games business and Internet access service business are characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changes in user requirements and frequent new service introductions and enhancements. The online gaming and online games industries, in particular, are subject to rapid technological change. We need to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and games, assess their acceptance and make appropriate investments accordingly. If we are unable to do so, new technologies in online gaming and online games programming or operations could render our gaming software and online games obsolete or unattractive. We use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing and payment transactions in our online games business. All of our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to upgrade our systems quickly enough to accommodate future traffic levels, to avoid obsolescence or to successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower response times, affecting data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or potential customers and existing or potential game developer partners. In April 2007, the PRC government issued regulations intended to discourage online game-players from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. Pursuant to these regulations, Internet game operators have been ordered to install anti-addiction software features on games offered in the PRC by mid-July 2007, which will (among other features) limit the number of points and other benefits which can be awarded to game players after they have been online in excess of specified periods of time. Internet game operators will also be required to adopt real-name registration, which will require online game players to register their real identity information before they will be allowed to play online games. If we cannot adapt our games and software systems to comply with the requirements of these regulations before the stipulated timeframe, the PRC authorities are entitled to order that our non-complying games be shut down. The number of consumer subscribers for our Internet access service business decreased from approximately 108,000 in 2002 to approximately 11,447 in 2006, and revenues from our Internet access service business declined from approximately US$21.6 million in 2005 to US$20.6 million in 2006, mainly due to a decrease in the number of consumer subscribers and a corresponding decrease in revenues from such customers. If we are unable to effectively use leading technologies, continue to develop our technological expertise, enhance our current services and continue to improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, or we are unable to 9 Table of Contents respond quickly and sufficiently to new technologies or standards, we may not be able to attract new customers and our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Our software licensing and online entertainment business, online games business, and Internet access service business depend on the reliability of our network infrastructure, which is subject to physical, technological, security and other risks The development and operation of our online networks are subject to physical, technological, security and other risks which may result in interruption in service or reduced capacity for customers. These risks include physical damage, power loss, telecommunications failure, capacity limitation, hardware or software failures or defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessation in service to users of our online services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan damaged several undersea optic-fiber cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. An increase in the volume of usage of online services could strain the capacity of our software and hardware employed, which could result in slower response time or system failures. We do not have redundant facilities in the event of an emergency, but we have a variety of backup servers at our primary site to deal with possible system failures. While we have implemented industry-standard security measures, our network may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems. A party that is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information and, perhaps, most importantly, cause interruptions in our operations. Internet and online service providers have, in the past, experienced and may, in the future, experience interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees or others. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. There can be no assurance that any measures implemented will not be circumvented in the future. The adoption of new laws or changes to or the application of existing laws relating to Internet commerce may affect the growth of our software licensing and online entertainment and online games businesses In addition to regulations pertaining specifically to online entertainment, we may become subject to a number of laws and regulations that may be adopted with respect to the Internet and electronic commerce. New laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. For example, in order to counter alleged net addiction, in March 2007, the PRC government prohibited the opening of any new cyber-cafes for the rest of 2007, and in April 2007, it issued regulations to discourage online game-players from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. Pursuant to these regulations, Internet game operators have been ordered to install anti-addiction software features on games offered in the PRC by mid-July 2007, which will (among other features) limit the number of points and other benefits which can be awarded to game players after they have been online in excess of specified periods of time. Internet game operators will also be required to adopt real-name registration, which will require online game players to register their real identity information before they will be allowed to play online games. If we cannot adapt our games and software systems to comply with the requirements of this regulation before the stipulated timeframe, the PRC authorities are entitled to order that non-complying games be shut down. Current laws, which predate or are incompatible with Internet commerce, may also be enforced in a manner that restricts the electronic commerce market. In addition, the application of such pre-existing laws regulating communications or commerce in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. 10 Table of Contents The adoption of new laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase the cost of conducting our business or could otherwise have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. The worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which our software licensing and online entertainment business operates is characterized by uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operating results Our software licensing and online entertainment business includes software development and the provision of application services for Internet gaming. We license our gaming software to operators of online gaming businesses and to UIM, which also sub-licenses our software products to third parties. Fees earned by us typically comprise an upfront license fee and a periodic license fee based on the revenues earned from the operation of the licensed software. Each of these businesses is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to online gaming and electronic commerce in various jurisdictions throughout the world, and it is in many cases uncertain which governments have authority to legislate or regulate different aspects of these industries. Moreover, the Internet gaming industry is still in an early stage of development and the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which the businesses operate remains highly fluid and subject to change. While most foreign jurisdictions have some form of legal framework applicable to games of chance, few provide clear guidance on how this framework applies to Internet gaming. Issues such as determining the physical location of a gaming event and significant differences among the gaming laws and “Cyberlaws” of various countries all make traditional concepts of jurisdiction and conflicts of laws difficult to apply. In addition, the very nature of Internet gaming creates new and unique forms of entertainment that were neither contemplated nor feasible in the past. Due to the uncertainties in the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which our gaming software business operates and the potential for aggressive legal steps by certain governments to protect online gaming business in their jurisdiction, we cannot assure you that our operations as an application service provider to the gaming industry, or the Internet gaming services provided by our licensees (including UIM), are in compliance with all laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where our gaming software products are used, or that changes in such laws and regulations, or in their interpretation, will not adversely affect our business and operating results. UIM, our major licensee, currently holds a gaming license issued by the Kahnawake Gaming Commission in Canada. However, certain jurisdictions in which UIM operates may require local licensing in the future, and there can be no assurance that it will be successful in its efforts to obtain a gaming license from these jurisdictions, and that as a result UIM would not face the potential loss of key partners and service providers. Also, the substantial uncertainties in the global regulatory environment relating to online gaming expose us to the risk that regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions will determine that our Company provides online gaming services (rather than only providing software and application services to our licensees) and thus subject our Company to gaming laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. In Europe, several countries, led by the United Kingdom, have adopted a clear legal framework for online gaming utilizing licensing and regulation. But in some European countries, in particular where there are state-owned gaming monopolies, primarily related to lotteries and online sports betting, governments have taken action or introduced legislation aimed at banning foreign online gaming operators, which could have a material adverse effect on our licensees and consequently on our Company. For example, the French governmental authorities have passed legislation effective from March 2007, prohibiting operators other than certain specified state-owned enterprises from operating Internet gaming sites in France. Additionally, advertising restrictions have been placed on the promotion of online gaming sites with effect from September 2007, and the proposed implementation of the legislation also requires warnings to be placed on online gaming sites. In addition, new banking restrictions have been adopted, which require financial institutions with electronic payment systems to identify and block restricted transactions. As of June 15, 2007, regulations required to implement these laws and the banking restrictions have not been adopted. Such actions have generally been declared in violation of European Union ("EU") law which governs the EU and its 27 member nations. According to rulings by both the EU Commissioner of Internal Markets and the European Court of Justice, such actions by member nations are illegal violations of the freedom to provide services and of establishment as protected by the Treaty of the European Union. There can be no assurance, however, that the rulings of the European Commission or the European Court of Justice will be enforced in a timely manner without disruption to the business of our licensees (including UIM). 11 Table of Contents Our business is international and therefore faces associated risks There are certain difficulties and inherent risks faced by our licensees (including UIM), in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks. Changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, in jurisdictions in which we or our licensees operate, and in which our licensees’ customers are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our software licensing and online entertainment business is dependent on one master licensee, and any adverse effect on its business could have an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition All of our revenues from our software licensing and online entertainment business have historically been derived from UIM, our master licensee which sub-licenses our software products to third parties. Although we do not have any ownership interest in UIM, we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements and are entitled to fees from UIM based upon its revenues. We do not control its management and hence have no control over its business decisions. Any adverse effect on UIM’s business, operating results or financial performance could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial performance. In December 2006, we agreed to license certain of our gaming software for use on Web sites to be launched and operated by a subsidiary of the Carmen Media Group. Online gaming is a relatively new industry and therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to grow Both the Internet entertainment and online gaming industries are relatively new industries that continue to evolve and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. The demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services are typically subject to a high level of uncertainty. The success of our software licensing and online entertainment business will depend on the widespread adoption of the Internet for commercial transactions. There can be no assurance that entertainment on the Internet and online gaming will become widespread. All of the revenues from our software licensing and online entertainment business to date have been derived from the licensing of our online gaming software and support of our associated services. Our continued success will depend largely upon the success of our online gaming software. If the market fails to develop, develops more slowly than expected, or becomes saturated with competitors or if our services do not achieve market acceptance, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on infrastructure and related services provided by third parties Our electronic commerce product for handling transactions over the Internet relies on ISPs to allow the customers of licensees and servers to communicate with each other. If all of the ISPs experienced lengthy service interruptions, it would prevent communication over the Internet and would greatly impair our ability to carry out our business. For example, in February 2007, an earthquake off the coast of Taiwan damaged several undersea optic-fiber cables linking countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, Japan, South Korea, China, the United States and Europe, causing disruptions in Internet traffic worldwide. Our ability to process e-commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, we are developing a formal disaster recovery plan. Nevertheless, any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. The licensees of our gaming software depend on credit card transactions for a substantial portion of the deposits or payments by their customers Our software licensing and online entertainment business has historically derived all of its revenues from its major licensee, UIM. A substantial portion of the deposits or payments to UIM are made through credit card transactions. If credit card companies were to stop processing online gaming transactions, either generally or in jurisdictions where our licensees operate, our software licensing and online entertainment business could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Furthermore, there is a higher incidence of fraud associated with online credit card payments than with respect to other types of transactions, which could further discourage issuing banks from processing online gaming transactions. Undetected programming errors or defects in our software, services and games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our software licensing and online entertainment and online games businesses, financial condition and results of operations Our software, services and games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. These errors or other defects could result in losses to our licensees (in the case of our software licensing and online entertainment business), end users and to us; and claims resulting from losses to end users could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. In addition, parties unrelated to us may develop Internet cheating programs that enable our users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable for breaches of security on our Web sites and fraudulent transactions by users of our Web sites Currently, a portion of our transactions are conducted through our Web sites and Web sites of UIM, our major licensee. In such transactions, and those conducted on our FunTown platform, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. Our current security measures may not be adequate. In addition, we and our licensees may face internal fraud, including potential unauthorized usage of customer credit card information by our employees and those of our licensees. While we have taken steps to prevent this, including the implementation of payment card industry data security standards, these measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our or our licensees’ reputation and ability to attract customers. We face the risks of changing consumer preferences and uncertainty of market acceptance of our new products in our online games business Online games are a new and evolving entertainment concept in Asia. The level of demand and market acceptance of our online games is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the popularity of existing and new online games operated by us; • the introduction of new online games, competing with or replacing our existing online games; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in customer tastes and preferences; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and 13 Table of Contents • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by how well we anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, two of the most popular types of online games in Greater China are online board and card games. However, there is no assurance that these games will continue to be popular in Greater China or that their status as one of the most popular types of online games in Greater China’s online games industry will not be replaced by new and different types of online or other games in the future. A decline in the popularity of online games in general or, in particular, the online board and card games that we operate, as well as in other genres of online games, such as MMORPGs, is likely to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we expect that as we introduce new online games, a portion of our existing customers will switch to the new games. If this transfer of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans and, as a result, our growth and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. We are exposed to risks associated with operating our online games business in the PRC In January 2006, we completed our acquisition of FunTown, an online game operator operating in Taiwan, Hong Kong and the PRC. In June 2007, we also acquired control over a majority of the voting rights in T2CN, an online sports game operator. Both FunTown and T2CN operate in the PRC, and are accordingly subject to risks which apply to online games businesses operating in the PRC, which include the following: • the limited use of personal computers in the PRC and the relatively high cost of Internet access with respect to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the online games business in the PRC and impede the growth of FunTown and T2CN; • if the PRC government finds that the operating agreements establishing the structure for FunTown or T2CN’s operations in the PRC do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online game industry, the operating agreements may not be enforced, and FunTown or T2CN could be subject to severe penalties; • our contractual arrangements with T2CN and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing operational control as compared to direct ownership. In addition, these arrangements may be difficult to enforce; • the PRC government has promulgated regulations on investments made by PRC companies and residents in offshore companies and reinvestments in the PRC made by such offshore companies. These measures may have a significant impact on the business and operations of FunTown or T2CN which may be subject to more restrictive governmental supervision; • the laws and regulations governing the online game industry and related businesses in the PRC are developing and subject to future changes. If FunTown, T2CN or any of our subsidiaries which operate in the PRC fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, their, or our, business and operations would be materially and adversely affected; • the PRC government has announced its intention, and has begun, to intensify its regulation of Internet cafes, where online game-players access the Internet and online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafes could restrict FunTown or T2CN’s ability to maintain or increase its revenues and expand its customer base; • currently there are no laws or regulations in the PRC governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have in respect of virtual assets; • the PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect FunTown or T2CN’s business; 14 Table of Contents • uncertainty in the PRC legal system; • restrictions on currency exchange may limit FunTown or T2CN’s ability to utilize its revenues effectively; and • inflation in China could negatively affect the profitability and growth of FunTown or T2CN. Our provision of online games and online game-related content on our Web sites in the PRC is subject to various Chinese laws and regulations relating to the telecommunications industry, Internet and online gaming, and is regulated by various government authorities, including the Ministry of Information Industry, the Ministry of Culture, the Administration of Press and Publication and the State Administration of Industry and Commerce. The principal PRC regulations governing the provision of Internet content and online gaming services include (among others) the Telecommunications Regulations (2000), the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises (2001), the Administrative Measures for Telecommunications Business Operating Licenses (2001), the Tentative Measures for Administration of Internet Culture (2003), the Tentative Measures for the Administration of Internet Publications (2002), the Opinions on the Development and Management of Online Games (2005) and the Anti-Internet Addiction Regulations (2007). We may be affected by these regulations, which (among other things) seek to regulate the content of online games and discourage online game players from spending excessive amounts of time playing online games. This may (among other things) reduce the number of our users or the growth rate of our user base or the online games market in the PRC, reduce the average number of hours played by online game players, or cause us to reduce usage fees or other charges in connection with our online games business. In addition, such regulations may require us to incur substantial costs of compliance in modifying or adapting our game software to comply with the regulatory requirements. This may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulations also limit foreign equity ownership of companies providing Internet content services, which includes operating online games, to 50 percent of the equity of such company, and prohibit foreign ownership of companies which distribute Internet culture products (which include online game products) and Internet publications within the meaning of the Tentative Measures for Internet Culture Administration (2003) and the Tentative Measures for the Administration of Internet Publications (2002), respectively. Such companies are also required to be licensed under the applicable licensing regulations. FunTown and T2CN are considered foreign or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law and accordingly are ineligible to apply for the licenses required to operate online games in the PRC or to provide Internet information content, such as online advertising. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, certain PRC entities, which hold the licenses and approvals that are required to operate their respective online games businesses in the PRC, have operated, and are operating, online games businesses in the PRC in accordance with a series of contractual agreements which they entered into with FunTown and T2CN. We believe that the ownership structure and the business and operation models of FunTown and T2CN with respect to their contractual arrangements with the respective PRC entities mentioned above comply with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. In addition, no consent, approval or license is required under any of the existing laws and regulations of the PRC for the respective ownership structures, businesses and operations of FunTown and T2CN. There are however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view contrary to the above. If we, FunTown or T2CN, or any of our subsidiaries with operations in the PRC are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such violations, including the revocation of the business and operating licenses of FunTown, T2CN or those of the PRC entities which are licensed to operate online games in the PRC, discontinuing or restricting our, FunTown or T2CN’s operations, requiring FunTown or T2CN to restructure their respective ownership structures or operations or taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including the levying of fines, that could be harmful to our business. There are no clear laws or regulations governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have in respect of virtual assets In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of users’ IDs by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no clear laws and regulations in governing virtual asset property rights, in particular, in Greater China, where we operate our online games business. In the case 15 Table of Contents of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and could be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our Shares We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our annual report does not include an attestation report of a registered public accounting firm regarding internal controls over financial reporting, which is not required to be provided until the filing of our annual report for the financial year ended December 31, 2007. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2006. However, there is no guarantee that we will not have weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to successfully address such significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In the event that deficiencies that have been or might be identified are not remediated within the required period, we may again determine that we have a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and, consequently, that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective to ensure that material information relating to our Company and its subsidiaries is made known to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, particularly during the period when our periodic reports are being prepared or to provide reasonable assurance that our financial statements are fairly presented in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our Shares. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act going forward. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; and • respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, any failure to obtain additional financing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may need to delay the deployment of our services. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of our chief executive officer, Arthur Wang, and our chief financial officer, Thomas Hui, in our business operations, and rely on their personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, and our game and service suppliers. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on our online games businesses, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced professionals to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. As a result, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences with respect to our Shares Although we do not believe we should be classified as a passive foreign investment company for the 2007 taxable year, no assurances may be given that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company in the current or any future taxable year. For a discussion of the factors that will affect whether or not we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, see Item 10 — “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” If you are a U.S. person holding our Shares, (or have held our Shares during a taxable year in respect of which we were classified as a passive foreign investment company and you continue to hold such Shares or portion thereof) and we are classified as a passive foreign investment company and you do not determine to make a mark-to-market election, you will be subject to special U.S. federal income tax rules that may have materially adverse tax consequences and will require annual reporting. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 17 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the exchange rates between U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we conduct our business could adversely affect our profitability Since January 1, 2004, we have reported our financial results in U.S. currency, which is subject to fluctuations in respect of the currencies of the countries in which we operate. The operations of UIM, our major licensee, are conducted in most major currencies, including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros, and we earn revenues from these sources in such currencies, as well as incurring expenses in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars. The operations of our online games business are conducted in NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Renminbi. Our Internet access service business is conducted mainly in NT dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates of world currencies could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. We are controlled by the Koo family, which has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, and their interests may conflict with your interests As of June 15, 2007, members of the Koo family beneficially owned approximately 20.44 percent of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, the members of the Koo family have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of such members of the Koo family may differ from or conflict with your interests. Our transactions with affiliates may not benefit us and may harm our Company We have entered into several transactions with our affiliates. Our policy is that transactions with affiliates are to be conducted on an arm’s-length basis and on terms as favorable to us as with non-affiliates. However, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with affiliates will be beneficial to us. Our operating results and financial condition are affected by general economic conditions, levels of consumer spending, political stability as well as the occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics Our operating results and financial condition, particularly in relation to our software licensing and online entertainment business and our online games business, are directly dependent upon general economic conditions and levels of consumer spending. Political unrest, war, acts of terrorism and other instability, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons which are common in Taiwan, can result in disruption to our business or the businesses of our customers. Similar occurrences in the future could result in increased volatility in or damage to the global financial markets, which in turn may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Past economic downturns have resulted in lower levels of consumer spending and have negatively impacted our sales and profit. There can be no assurance that rising interest rates, an economic recession, other adverse economic developments, or natural disasters or epidemics will not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, profitability or financial condition. There are economic risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between Taiwan and the PRC Our principal executive offices, a major portion of our online games business and our Internet access service business are located in Taiwan and substantially all of our net revenues in respect of these businesses are derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan, as part of the Republic of China, has a unique international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan if Taiwan declares independence or if any foreign power interferes in Taiwan’s affairs. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan could also affect our online games and Internet access service businesses. 18 Table of Contents The ability of our subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be subject to restrictions under the laws of Singapore, Taiwan and the PRC We are a holding company, and some of our assets constitute our ownership interests in our subsidiaries in Taiwan, including Hoshin GigaMedia which owns the Taiwan-based operations of our online games business and our Internet access service business. Accordingly, part of our primary internal sources of funds to meet our cash needs is our share of the dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries, including those in Taiwan. The distribution of dividends from these subsidiaries in Taiwan to us is subject to restrictions imposed by the applicable corporate and tax regulations in these countries, which are more fully described in Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Dividends from Our Subsidiaries in Taiwan.” In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, the relevant regulations may be changed and the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be restricted in the future. In June 2007, we acquired control over a majority of the voting rights in T2CN, an online games operator and distributor which operates its business primarily in the PRC. Accordingly, going forward, we may be subject to further restrictions imposed by PRC corporate, tax and exchange control regulations which are applicable to T2CN and its business. We are a Singapore company, and because the rights of shareholders under Singapore law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by the management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company, which could adversely affect the price of our Shares There are provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company. Anyone acquiring an interest, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, in 30 percent or more of our voting shares must extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting shares. A person holding between 30 percent and 50 percent of our voting shares, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, must also make a takeover offer if that person together with parties acting in concert with him acquires additional voting shares in excess of 1 percent of the total number of voting shares in any six-month period. These provisions may discourage or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. This may harm you because an acquisition bid may allow you to sell your Shares at a price above the prevailing market price. You may be subject to Singapore taxes You should consult your tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of acquiring, owning or selling the shares. Singapore tax law may differ from the tax laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property right infringement, and our limited intellectual property protection causes us to be vulnerable to competitors infringing upon or misappropriating our proprietary rights As a distributor of Internet content, we face the same types of risks that apply to all businesses that publish or distribute information, such as potential liability for copyright, patent or trademark infringement, defamation, indecency and other similar claims. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, is in excess of insurance coverage or for which we are not indemnified by a content provider, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. These are especially critical to our software licensing and online entertainment business. We 19 Table of Contents can offer no assurance that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. We may have to engage in litigation to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We may also be sued for allegedly infringing the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of their intellectual property rights. Any litigation involving proprietary rights could be costly, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from selling our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Risks Related to our Shares The price of our Shares has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the Shares when desired or at attractive prices The trading price of our Shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. In 2006, the sale prices of our Shares on the NASDAQ Global Market have ranged from US$2.90 to US$12.38 per share and the last reported sale price on June 15, 2007 was US$14.66. Our Share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Shares, regardless of our operating performance. 