D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history as an entertainment software provider and an online casual games business operator, and the unproven long-term potential of those business models make evaluating our business and prospects difficult We acquired our entertainment software business, CESL, in April 2004 and our online casual games business, FunTown, in January 2006. We launched new poker software products in 2004, which generated approximately 2 percent of CESL’s total revenues in 2004 and 18 percent of CESL’s total revenues in 2005. In addition, the senior management teams of our different businesses and our employees have worked together at our Company for only a relatively short period of time. As a result, we have a limited relevant operating history as an entertainment software developer and an online casual games operator for you to evaluate. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by companies using new and unproven business models and entering new and rapidly evolving markets, including the online gaming and online casual games markets. These risks may include our potential failure to: • retain existing customers or attract new customers; • license, develop, or acquire additional online games that are appealing to consumers; • anticipate and adapt to changing consumer preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; • respond to technological changes or resolve unexpected service interruptions in a timely manner; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platforms; or • maintain adequate control of our expenses. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the risks listed above, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our businesses face intense competition, which may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and planned business expansion We face competition from many competitors, and we expect to face additional competition from potential competitors, including those with: • significantly greater technological, financial, sales and marketing resources; • larger customer bases and longer operating histories; • greater name recognition; and • more established relationships with distribution partners, advertisers, content and application providers and/or other strategic partners. 5 Table of Contents COMPETITION IN THE ENTERTAINMENT SOFTWARE AND INTERNET GAMING BUSINESSES. The Internet entertainment software industry is characterized by rapid technological change and we face significant and intense competition from online entertainment software design houses and application service providers. Given the relatively low barriers to entry into the software industry and the increasing popularity of Internet-based businesses, there are a large number of potential competitors from many different segments of software and Internet industries. Traditional entertainment service providers, many of which have significant financial resources, might expand and provide Internet-based entertainment services. Such Internet service providers and other entertainment service providers may also develop and offer the underlying software solutions and tools to others in direct competition with us. Ultra Internet Media, S.A. (“UIM”), a provider of Internet gaming services, is the sole licensee of our entertainment software business. Although we do not have any ownership interest in UIM, we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements and are entitled to fees from UIM based upon its revenues. Accordingly, we are exposed to competition in the Internet gaming industry, which is also characterized by low barriers to entry, rapid technological change and ever-changing consumer preferences. Furthermore, some of our competitors and competitors of UIM are more established, enjoy greater market recognition, are substantially larger and have substantially greater resources and distribution capabilities than we do. There is no assurance that we or UIM will be able to compete successfully with existing and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Entertainment Software Business — Competition” for additional information. COMPETITION IN THE ONLINE CASUAL GAMES BUSINESS. Our main competitors in the online casual games business are casual games operators in Greater China, including Shanda Interactive Entertainment Ltd. (“Shanda”), Nineyou (Shanghai Everstar Online Entertainment Co., Ltd.), Tencent Holdings Limited, Ourgames.com (Beijing Globalink Computer Technology Co., Ltd.) and Chinagames.net. We expect more companies to enter the online casual games industry in Greater China and a wider range of casual games to be introduced to the Greater China market, given the relatively low entry barriers to the online casual games industry. Our competitors vary in size and include large companies such as Shanda, many of which have significant financial, marketing and game development resources as well as name recognition. We may not be able to devote adequate resources to designing, developing or acquiring new games, undertaking extensive marketing campaigns, adopting aggressive pricing policies, paying high compensation to game developers or compensating independent game developers to the same degree as a number of our competitors may be able to do. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any new or existing competitors. In addition, the increased competition we anticipate in the online casual games industry may reduce the number of our users or growth rate of our user base, reduce the average number of hours played by our users, or cause us to reduce usage fees. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 6 Table of Contents COMPETITION IN THE BROADBAND ISP BUSINESS. Our main competitors in the consumer broadband Internet service provider (“ISP”) business are fixed-line service providers and other ISPs in Taiwan that offer asymmetrical digital subscriber line (“ADSL”) broadband services, including Chunghwa Telecom’s HiNet, the overwhelmingly dominant provider of broadband services; Taiwan Fixed Network, a fixed-line service provider; and Seednet, SoNet and Asia Pacific Online, which are all ISPs. Our competitors also include cable-based Internet access companies that have developed their own cable-based services and market those services to cable operators and those that are seeking to contract with cable operators to bring their services into geographic areas that are not covered by an exclusive relationship between our Company and our cable partners. Our corporate ISP business faces competition from fixed-line service providers, including Chunghwa Telecom, Taiwan Fixed Network, NCIC’s Sparq and Asia Pacific Online. In recent years, we have experienced a reduction in the number of our new consumer subscribers and our total consumer subscribers. The primary basis of competition in the Internet access business industry is price. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to attract new subscribers or retain existing subscribers, as a result of which our revenues may decline. Due to this intense competition, there may be a limited market opportunity for our broadband access services. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in achieving widespread acceptance of our services before our competitors offer services similar to our current or prospective offerings, which might preclude or delay purchasing decisions by potential subscribers or cause us to lose our existing subscribers. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage current growth and potential future growth We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, including leveraging our customer base to develop additional sources of revenues and exploring opportunities to expand into new online entertainment business segments. Some of these strategies relate to new services or products for which there are no established markets in Taiwan or China, or relate to services or products in which we lack experience and expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated further expansion of our operations will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures, including those of acquired businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business strategy, which contemplates growth through acquisitions and strategic investments, exposes us to significant risks As a component of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to enhance our business development, including our game content offerings, by acquiring other businesses that complement our current online businesses, represent related but new lines of business that may be appropriate areas of expansion, or that we believe may benefit us in terms of user base, product or content offering. We also intend to make selective strategic investments. We will continue to examine the merits, risks and feasibility of potential transactions, and expect to search for additional acquisition opportunities in the future. 7 Table of Contents Such search and examination efforts and any related discussions with third parties, may or may not lead to future acquisitions and investments. Our reported financial results may be affected by any such acquisitions and/or investments, including any acquisitions or dispositions undertaken by us in anticipation of or in connection with any such acquisitions and/or investments. Our ability to grow through such acquisitions and investments will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to reach agreement with acquisition candidates or investee companies on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or investments and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. In addition, the benefits of an acquisition or investment transaction may take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits. Furthermore, the identification and completion of any transactions may require us to expend significant management and other resources. Any transaction may require that we expend a significant portion of our cash reserves and/or issue a substantial amount of new equity, which could adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity and result in significant dilution of shareholders’ interests. The impact of dilution may restrict our ability to consummate further acquisitions. We may also incur debt and losses related to the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets upon or following the acquisition of another business, which could negatively impact our results of operations. For example, we wrote off goodwill associated with our music distribution business in the amount of US$7.0 million in 2002 and US$0.7 million in 2003, which reduced our profitability in both years. Any write-off of goodwill in the future may have a negative impact on our financial results. Additional risks associated with acquisitions include the following: • It may be difficult to assimilate the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our own business; • Management, information, and accounting systems of an acquired business would be different from our current systems and would need to be successfully integrated; • Our management must devote its attention to assimilating the acquired business, which diverts attention from other business concerns; • Suppliers, vendors and/or distributors may renegotiate or cancel contracts with us following the acquisition of a business; • We may enter markets in which we have limited prior experience. For example, in April 2006, we acquired a minority stake in T2CN Holding Limited (“T2CN”), an online casual sports game operator in China, and intend to develop our casual games business in China in combination with T2CN. However, we are not presently active in T2CN’s business and have limited experience in its line of business; and • We may lose some of our key employees or key employees of an acquired business. We have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will not incur substantial losses in future periods We incurred net losses in each of our previous fiscal years except 2004 and 2005, in which we recorded net income of US$1.7 million and US$6.3 million, respectively. Our losses were primarily the result of the substantial costs incurred in operating our broadband Internet access and music distribution businesses and declining revenues from our music distribution business. We may incur substantial losses in the future. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, could adversely affect our business and reputation. 8 Table of Contents We rely on trademark, patent and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of Taiwan, Hong Kong, the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which could disrupt our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations Our revenues, expenses and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The key factors affecting each of our respective businesses include: • Entertainment software business: availability of Internet infrastructure, competition from existing and new competitors, the revenues, expenses and results of operations of our sole customer and licensee, UIM, the retention of the key license with our sole licensee, UIM, and the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Internet gaming industry. • Online casual games business: existing and new competitors, the pace of rollout of new games and price competition in the industry. • Broadband ISP business: price competition in the Internet access business, the rate at which new customers subscribe to our services, subscriber turnover rates and the pace of rollout of our services. In addition, our operating expenses are based on our expectations of the future demand for our services and are relatively fixed in the short term. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected demand shortfall. A shortfall in revenues in relation to our expenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial results. The markets for our principal businesses are characterized by rapid technological change, and failure to respond quickly and sufficiently to new Internet technologies or standards may have a material adverse effect on our business The markets for our entertainment software business, online casual games business and broadband ISP business are characterized by rapid technological advances, evolving industry standards, changes in user requirements and frequent new service introductions and enhancements. The online gaming and online casual games industries, in particular, are subject to rapid technological change. We need to anticipate the emergence of new technologies and games, assess their acceptance and make appropriate investments accordingly. If we are unable to do so, new technologies in online gaming and online casual games programming or operations could render our gaming services and games obsolete or unattractive. We use internally developed software systems that support nearly all aspects of our billing and payment transactions in our online casual games business. All of our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to upgrade our systems quickly enough to accommodate future traffic levels, to avoid obsolescence or to successfully integrate any newly developed or acquired technology with our existing systems. Capacity constraints could cause unanticipated system disruptions and slower response times, affecting data transmission and game play. These factors could, among other things, cause us to lose existing or potential customers and existing or potential game developer partners. 9 Table of Contents The number of consumer subscribers of our broadband ISP services declined from approximately 108,000 in 2002 to approximately 80,500 in 2005. If we are unable to effectively use leading technologies, continue to develop our technological expertise, enhance our current services and continue to improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, or we are unable to respond quickly and sufficiently to new technologies or standards, we may not be able to attract new customers and our business and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. Our entertainment software business, online casual games business, and broadband ISP business depend on the reliability of our network infrastructure, which is subject to physical, technological, security and other risks The development and operation of our online networks are subject to physical, technological, security and other risks which may result in interruption in service or reduced capacity for customers. These risks include physical damage, power loss, telecommunications failure, capacity limitation, hardware or software failures or defects and breaches of security by computer viruses, break-ins or otherwise. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions, delays or cessation in service to users of our online services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. An increase in the volume of usage of online services could strain the capacity of our software and hardware employed, which could result in slower response time or system failures. We do not have redundant facilities in the event of an emergency, but we have a variety of backup servers at our primary site to deal with possible system failures. While we have implemented industry-standard security measures, our network may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems. A party that is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information and, perhaps, most importantly, cause interruptions in our operations. Internet and online service providers have, in the past, experienced and may, in the future, experience interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of Internet users, current and former employees or others. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. There can be no assurance that any measures implemented will not be circumvented in the future. The adoption of new laws or changes to or the application of existing laws relating to Internet commerce may affect the growth of our entertainment software business In addition to regulations pertaining specifically to online entertainment, we may become subject to a number of laws and regulations that may be adopted with respect to the Internet and electronic commerce. New laws and regulations that address issues such as user privacy, pricing, online content regulation, taxation, advertising, intellectual property, information security, and the characteristics and quality of online products and services may be enacted. Moreover, current laws, which predate or are incompatible with Internet commerce, may be enforced in a manner that restricts the electronic commerce market. In addition, the application of such pre-existing U.S. and international laws regulating communications or commerce in the context of the Internet and electronic commerce is uncertain. Moreover, it may take years to determine the extent to which existing laws relating to issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, libel and personal privacy are applicable to the Internet. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and government agencies in certain states of the United States have been investigating certain Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. We could incur additional expenses if these agencies choose to investigate, or if any new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced affecting the way in which we do business. The adoption of new laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or particular applications or interpretations of existing laws, could decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, decrease the demand for our products and services, increase the cost of conducting our business or could otherwise have a material adverse affect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our entertainment software business has a sole licensee, and any adverse effect on its business could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition All of our revenues from our entertainment software business are derived from UIM, currently the sole licensee of our software products. Although we do not have any ownership interest in UIM, we consolidate its assets, liabilities and results of operations in our financial statements and are entitled to fees from UIM based upon its revenues. We do not control its management and hence have no control over its business decisions. A decision by UIM to terminate its contract with us or any adverse effect on its business, operating results or financial performance could have a direct material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial performance. Further, any significant increase in UIM’s liabilities or decrease in its assets would adversely affect our balance sheet. We continue to explore developing business relations with other clients but there is no assurance that such efforts will be successful. The worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which our entertainment software business operates is characterized by uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and operating results Our software entertainment business includes software development and the provision of application services for Internet gaming. UIM, which operates an online gaming business and also sub-licenses our software products to third parties, is the sole licensee of our entertainment software products and we earn fees from UIM based upon its revenues. Each of these businesses is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to online gaming and electronic commerce in various jurisdictions throughout the world, and it is in many cases uncertain which governments have authority to legislate or regulate different aspects of these industries. Moreover, the Internet gaming industry is still in an early stage of development and the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which the businesses operate remains highly fluid and subject to change. While most foreign jurisdictions have some form of legal framework applicable to games of chance, few provide clear guidance on how this framework applies to Internet gaming. Issues such as determining the physical location of a gaming event and significant differences among the gaming laws and “Cyberlaws” of various countries all make traditional concepts of jurisdiction and conflicts of laws difficult to apply. In addition, the very nature of Internet gaming creates new and unique forms of entertainment that were neither contemplated nor feasible in the past. Due to the uncertainties in the worldwide legal and regulatory environment in which our entertainment software business operates, we cannot assure you that our operations as an application service provider to the gaming industry, or the Internet gaming services provided by UIM, are in compliance with all laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where our entertainment software products are used, or that changes in such laws and regulations, or in their interpretation, will not adversely affect our business and operating results. Also, the substantial uncertainties in the global regulatory environment relating to online gaming expose us to the risk that regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions will determine that our Company provides online gaming services (rather than only providing software and application services to our licensee) and thus subject our Company to gaming laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. 11 Table of Contents U.S. regulation of the online gaming industry could have a substantial impact on UIM’s business and consequentially our entertainment software business Our Company, UIM and the online gaming industry as a whole may be affected by pending legislation in the U.S. Congress that, if enacted, would prohibit the use of communication facilities and financial transactions in connection with Internet gambling. The current administration adheres to the view that Internet gambling is already prohibited by the Federal Wire Act and other federal laws. In addition, Internet gambling currently constitutes illegal gambling activity in all 50 U.S. states, including those states where other forms of gambling are legal. Because many U.S. citizens continue to participate in Internet gambling despite these prohibitions, Congressional opponents of Internet gambling have unsuccessfully proposed legislation over the past several years with the intent of restricting the means available for participation in this activity. In the current Congress, three bills affecting Internet gambling are under consideration: • H.R. 4411, entitled the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006, would prohibit gambling businesses from accepting credit cards or other bank instruments in connection with illegal Internet gambling. In order to enforce that objective, the proposed legislation directs various federal agencies to develop regulations within nine months of enactment that would require financial institutions with electronic payment systems to establish policies and procedures to identify and block restricted transactions. The bill is designed to reduce participation in illegal Internet gambling by restricting the payment methods for such activities and by imposing increased criminal penalties on illegal Internet gambling businesses. H.R. 4411 would also create judicial procedures through which federal agencies could obtain injunctions directing interactive computer services to remove or disable access to online sites that violate the law. • H.R. 4777, entitled the Internet Gambling Prohibition Act, would prohibit financial transactions related to Internet gambling in substantially the same manner as H.R. 4411, but it does not direct federal agencies to adopt regulations supporting that mandate. More significantly, H.R. 4777 would also criminalize any gambling business from using a communication facility to transmit bets or wagers, or information assisting in the placing of bets and wagers, to or from the United States. The bill would also expand the scope of the Wires Act by including satellite and microwave transmission in addition to wire and cable transmissions as communication facilities through which gambling information may not be transmitted. However, H.R. 4777 also sets out a number of broad exemptions, the most important of which is that the proposed legislation would not prohibit the transmission of information assisting in the placing of bets or wagers from a state or foreign country where such betting or wagering is permitted into a state or foreign country where such betting or wagering is permitted. Like H.R. 4411, H.R. 4777 would also create judicial procedures through which federal agencies could obtain injunctions directing interactive computer services to remove or disable access to sites identified as participants in illegal Internet gambling. • H.R. 5474 was recently introduced to create a commission to study the proper response of the United States to the growth of Internet gambling. No significant action has taken place with regard to this. We continue to monitor the progress of this legislation through the Congress since the passage of this legislation could potentially impact the revenues of UIM. Although UIM operates outside of the U.S. jurisdiction and maintains that it does not purposefully solicit or accept gambling transactions that would violate current U.S. law, a substantial impairment of UIM’s revenues could affect the continued operation of our entertainment software business. 12 Table of Contents In November 2004, the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) found that the United States was in violation of its commitments under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (“GATS”), by not allowing operators of online gaming services licensed in Antigua and Barbuda to access U.S. markets. The decision was appealed and, in April 2005, the Appellate Body of the WTO found that the provisions of the Wire Act, Travel Act and Illegal Gambling Business Act are inconsistent with the obligations of the United States under the GATS, but also that the United States had shown that such measures are necessary to protect public morals or maintain public order and therefore fall within an exception to its general obligations. However, the Appellate Body further found that, in the light of existing federal legislation regarding Internet gambling on horseracing, the United States had failed to demonstrate that the Wire Act, Travel Act and Illegal Gambling Business Act are applied equally to both foreign and domestic providers of online gambling services for horseracing and therefore recommended that the United States bring its legislation into conformity with its obligations under the GATS. If the United States or other jurisdictions adopt laws which restrict their citizens from participating in Internet gaming offered outside their jurisdictions, on the grounds of public morals, public order or otherwise, the business of UIM, and our business, could be materially and adversely affected. All of our entertainment software revenues are derived from UIM which, in turn, derives its revenues from end users in non-U.S. jurisdictions, exposing us to regulatory risks and cultural and linguistic barriers in such jurisdictions UIM is an operator of an online entertainment business and all of our entertainment software revenues are derived from its operations. UIM’s revenues are derived substantially from non-U.S. jurisdictions. All of our entertainment software revenues from licensing and support fees are also derived from non-U.S jurisdictions. We currently provide user interface and licensee support to UIM in 16 languages. Once a licensee has posted its gaming site on the Internet, the site is available to users around the world. To be able to further expand our business we expect we will require modification of our products, particularly domestic language and currency support. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain or increase revenues derived from international operations or that we will be able to penetrate linguistic, cultural or other barriers to new foreign markets. In addition to uncertainty regarding the legal status of Internet gaming in other jurisdictions, there are certain difficulties and inherent risks faced by UIM, in doing business internationally, including the burden of complying with multiple and conflicting regulatory requirements, foreign exchange controls, potential restrictions or tariffs on gaming activities that may be imposed, potentially adverse tax consequences and tax risks. Changes in the political and economic stability, regulatory and taxation structures, and the interpretation thereof, of jurisdictions in which we or UIM operates, and in which our licensee’s customers are located could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Online gaming is a relatively new industry and therefore, we do not know if the market will continue to grow Both the Internet entertainment and online gaming industries are relatively new industries that continue to evolve and are characterized by an increasing number of market entrants. The demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services are typically subject to a high level of uncertainty. The success of our entertainment software business will depend on the widespread adoption of the Internet for commercial transactions. There can be no assurance that entertainment on the Internet will become widespread. All of the revenues from our entertainment software business to date have been derived from the licensing of our online entertainment software and support of our associated services. Our continued success will depend largely upon the success of our online entertainment software. If the market fails to develop, develops more slowly than expected, or becomes saturated with competitors or if our services do not achieve market acceptance, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We may be vulnerable to delays or interruptions due to our reliance on infrastructure and related services provided by third parties Our electronic commerce product for handling transactions over the Internet relies on ISPs to allow the customers of UIM, our licensee, and servers to communicate with each other. If all of the ISPs experienced lengthy service interruptions, it would prevent communication over the Internet and would greatly impair our ability to carry out our business. Our ability to process e-commerce transactions depends on bank processing and credit card systems. In order to prepare for certain types of system problems, we are developing a formal disaster recovery plan. Nevertheless, any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, which causes a delay or interruption in our e-commerce services could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. The licensee of our entertainment software depends on credit card transactions for a substantial portion of the deposits or payments by their customers Our entertainment software business derives all of its revenues from its licensee, UIM. A substantial portion of the deposits or payments to our licensee are made through credit card transactions. If credit card companies were to stop processing online gaming transactions, either generally or in jurisdictions where our licensee operates, our entertainment software business could be materially and adversely affected. Many issuing banks of major credit cards decline authorization to U.S. persons who attempt to use their credit cards for online gaming. We may be adversely affected by the provisions of the U.S. Patriot Act. Both U.S. and non-U.S. banks which process online gaming transactions for U.S. persons face potential criminal proceedings under the U.S. Patriot Act, as U.S. jurisdiction under the Patriot Act extends to non-U.S. banks that have correspondent accounts in the United States. This could result in issuing banks deciding not to process online gaming transactions generally. For example, following pressure from Eliot Spitzer, in June 2002, Citibank started to block credit card payments to known online gaming sites and, later that year, the Delaware payment processing firm, PayPal, stopped processing payments for the purposes of online gaming. In addition, it is possible that other jurisdictions may enact legislation or take other actions which result in credit card companies being unwilling or unable to process online gaming transactions. Furthermore, there is a higher incidence of fraud associated with online credit card payments than with respect to other types of transactions, which could further discourage issuing banks from processing online gaming transactions. Undetected programming errors or defects in our software, services and games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our entertainment software and online casual games businesses, financial condition and results of operations Our software, services and games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. These errors or other defects could result in losses to our licensee (in the case of our entertainment software business), end users and to us; and the risk from claims resulting from losses to end users, which could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. In addition, parties unrelated to us may develop Internet cheating programs that enable our users to acquire superior features for their game characters that they would not have otherwise. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a user. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the game experience of our users. As a result, such errors, defects and cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We could be liable for breaches of security on our Web sites and fraudulent transactions by users of our Web sites Currently, a portion of our transactions are conducted through our Web sites and Web sites of UIM, our sole licensee. In such transactions, and those conducted on our FunTown platform, secured transmission of confidential information (such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses) over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. Our current security measures may not be adequate. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and possible liability for failing to secure confidential customer information and could harm our or our licensee’s reputation and ability to attract customers. We face the risks of changing consumer preferences and uncertainty of market acceptance of our new products in our online casual games business Online casual games are a new and evolving entertainment concept in Asia. The level of demand and market acceptance of our online casual games is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the popularity of existing and new online games operated by us; • the introduction of new online games, competing with or replacing our existing online games; • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending; • changes in customer tastes and preferences; • the availability of other forms of entertainment; and • critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, all of which change rapidly and cannot be predicted. Our ability to plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities will be significantly affected by our ability to anticipate and adapt to relatively rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, two of the most popular types of online casual games in Greater China are online board and card games. However, there is no assurance that these games will continue to be popular in Greater China and their status as one of the most popular types of online casual games in Greater China’s online casual games industry will not be replaced by new and different types of online or other games in the future. A decline in the popularity of online casual games in general or, in particular, the online board and card games that we operate, will likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we expect that as we introduce new online casual games, a certain portion of our existing customers will switch to the new games. If this transfer of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans and, as a result, our growth and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Currently there are no clear laws or regulations in Greater China governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be important to online game players. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of users’ IDs by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no clear laws and regulations in Greater China governing virtual asset property rights. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and could be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The benefits of our exclusive agreements with certain cable partners may be substantially diminished by open-access proposals, which would require our exclusive cable partners to grant our competitors access to their systems We have entered into exclusive agreements with 11 out of 22 of our cable partners granting us the exclusive right to provide services through their cable systems. As per new regulations in Taiwan, our cable partners must obtain leased-circuit licenses to provide their circuits to us in order for us to provide two-way cable services. In addition, any holder of leased-circuit licenses, including any of the cable partners having exclusive relationships with us, may be required to grant our competitors access to its cable system if it is deemed to be a dominant leased-circuit operator. In that event: • other Internet and online service providers could potentially provide services over these cable partners’ cable systems that compete with our services; • our rights as the exclusive broadband Internet access provider over these cable partners’ systems could be lost; and • our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. See Item 4 — “Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Broadband ISP Business — Industry Overview” for additional information. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our Shares We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements are expected to apply to our annual report on Form 20-F beginning in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. We are following an internal plan of action for compliance. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness will be a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and our senior management. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remedial actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we do not achieve compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner, our independent auditors may not be able to provide a written attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we could be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Commission. We are not yet required to comply with the Section 404 requirements. Nonetheless, in 2004, we requested our independent auditors to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting, and they identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls, which we have subsequently rectified. However, there is no guarantee that we will not have weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to successfully address such significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In the event that deficiencies that have been or might be identified are not remediated within the required period, we may again determine that we have a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting and, consequently, that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective to ensure that material information relating to our Company and its subsidiaries is made known to our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, particularly during the period when our periodic reports are being prepared or to provide reasonable assurance that our financial statements are fairly presented in conformity with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. 16 Table of Contents Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our Shares. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need additional capital in the future and it may not be available on acceptable terms The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of products and services we offer; and • respond to competitive pressures and perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to curtail or cease our operations. Moreover, even if we are able to continue our operations, any failure to obtain additional financing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may need to delay the deployment of our services. See Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership ability of our chief executive officer, Arthur Wang, and our chief financial officer, Thomas Hui, in our business operations, and rely on their personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, and our game and service suppliers. We also rely on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. In addition, as we expect to focus increasingly on our online games businesses, we will need to continue attracting and retaining skilled and experienced professionals to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. As a result, our business could be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, you may be subject to materially adverse tax consequences with respect to our Shares Although we do not believe we should be classified as a passive foreign investment company for the 2005 taxable year, no assurances may be given that we will not be classified as a passive foreign investment company in the current or any future taxable year. For a discussion of the factors that will affect whether or not we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, see Item 10 — “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” If you are a U.S. person holding our Shares, (or have held our Shares during a taxable year in respect of which we were classified as a passive foreign investment company and you continue to hold such Shares or portion thereof) and we are classified as a passive foreign investment company and you do not determine to make a mark-to-market election, you will be subject to special U.S. federal income tax rules that may have materially adverse tax consequences and will require annual reporting. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 17 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the exchange rates between U.S. dollar and other currencies in which we conduct our business could adversely affect our profitability Our financial results since January 1, 2004 have been reported in U.S. currency, which is subject to fluctuations in respect of the currencies of the countries in which we operate. The operations of UIM, our entertainment software licensee, are conducted in most major currencies, including U.S. dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros, and we earn revenues from these sources in such currencies, as well as incurring expenses in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars. The operations of our online casual games business are conducted in NT dollars, Hong Kong dollars and Renminbi. Our broadband ISP business is conducted mainly in NT dollars. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates of world currencies could have a positive or negative effect on our reported results. Given the constantly changing currency exposures and the substantial volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. There can be no assurance that we will not experience currency losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition. Our controlling shareholder has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, and their interests may conflict with your interests As of March 31, 2006, members of the Koo family beneficially owned approximately 21.34 percent of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, the members of the Koo family have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, and also the power to prevent or cause a change in control. The interests of such members of the Koo family may differ from or conflict with your interests. Our transactions with affiliates may not benefit us and may harm our Company We have entered into several transactions with our affiliates. Our policy is that transactions with affiliates are to be conducted on an arm’s-length basis and on terms as favorable to us as with non-affiliates. However, we cannot assure you that all our future transactions with affiliates will be beneficial to us. Our operating results and financial condition are affected by general economic conditions, levels of consumer spending, political stability as well as the occurrence of natural disasters and epidemics Our operating results and financial condition, particularly in relation to our entertainment software business and our online casual games business, are directly dependent upon general economic conditions and levels of consumer spending. Political unrest, war, acts of terrorism and other instability, as well as natural disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons which are common in Taiwan, can result in disruption to our business or the businesses of our customers. Similar occurrences in the future could result in increased volatility in or damage to the global financial markets, which in turn may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Past economic downturns have resulted in lower levels of consumer spending and have negatively impacted our sales and profit. There can be no assurance that rising interest rates, an economic recession, other adverse economic developments, or natural disasters or epidemics will not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, profitability or financial condition. 18 Table of Contents There are economic risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between Taiwan and the PRC Our principal executive offices, a major portion of our online casual games business and our broadband ISP business are located in Taiwan and substantially all of our net revenues in respect of these businesses are derived from customers in Taiwan. Taiwan, as part of the R.O.C., has a unique international political status. The People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) asserts sovereignty over mainland China and Taiwan and does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan if Taiwan declares independence or if any foreign power interferes in Taiwan’s affairs. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan could also affect our online casual games and broadband ISP businesses. Our subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends to us may be subject to restrictions under the laws of Singapore and Taiwan We are a holding company, and some of our assets constitute our ownership interests in our subsidiaries in Taiwan, including Hoshin GigaMedia which owns the Taiwan-based operations of our online casual games business and our broadband ISP business. Accordingly, part of our primary internal sources of funds to meet our cash needs is our share of the dividends, if any, paid by our subsidiaries, including those in Taiwan. The distribution of dividends from these subsidiaries in Taiwan to us is subject to restrictions imposed by Taiwan and Singapore corporate and tax regulations, which are more fully described in Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Dividends from Our Subsidiaries in Taiwan.” In addition, although there are currently no foreign exchange control regulations which restrict the ability of our subsidiaries in Taiwan to distribute dividends to us, the relevant regulations may be changed and the ability of these subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us may be restricted in the future. We are a Singapore company, and because the rights of shareholders under Singapore law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors under Singapore law are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States and, therefore, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions by the management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. There are anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company, which may adversely affect the price of our Shares There are provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Take-overs and Mergers that may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our Company. Anyone acquiring an interest, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, in 30 percent or more of our voting shares must extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting shares. A person holding between 30 percent and 50 percent of our voting shares, either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him, must also make a takeover offer if that person together with parties acting in concert with him acquires additional voting shares in excess of 1 percent of the total number of voting shares in any six-month period. These provisions may discourage or prevent transactions that involve an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. This may harm you because an acquisition bid may allow you to sell your Shares at a price above the prevailing market price. 19 Table of Contents You may be subject to Singapore taxes You should consult your tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of acquiring, owning or selling the shares. Singapore tax law may differ from the tax laws of other jurisdictions, including the United States. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property right infringement, and our limited intellectual property protection causes us to be vulnerable to competitors infringing upon or misappropriating our proprietary rights As a distributor of Internet content, we face the same types of risks that apply to all businesses that publish or distribute information, such as potential liability for copyright, patent or trademark infringement, defamation, indecency and other similar claims. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance, is in excess of insurance coverage or for which we are not indemnified by a content provider, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary software, trade secrets and similar intellectual property. These are especially critical to our entertainment software business. We can offer no assurance that our efforts will prove to be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate our proprietary rights. We may have to engage in litigation to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We may also be sued for allegedly infringing the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of their intellectual property rights. Any litigation involving proprietary rights could be costly, require us to seek licenses from third parties and prevent us from selling our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to the R.O.C. Alternative Minimum Tax Act On January 1, 2006, the R.O.C. government enacted the R.O.C. Alternative Minimum Tax Act (the “AMT Act”). The alternative minimum tax (“AMT”) imposed under the AMT Act is a supplemental tax which is payable if the income tax payable pursuant to the R.O.C. Income Tax Act is below the minimum amount prescribed under the AMT Act. The AMT rate for business entities is 10 percent. The taxable income for calculating the AMT includes most income that is exempted from income tax under various legislations, such as tax holidays and investment tax credits. For example, gains on disposal of marketable securities from our Taiwan-based entities were exempt from income tax based on Taiwan tax laws prior to AMT Act. However, such gains will need to be included for the purpose of calculating the AMT. We currently do not expect the AMT to have a material effect on our income tax expense in 2006. However, the actual AMT may differ significantly from management’s estimates and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Shares The price of our Shares has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the Shares when desired or at attractive prices The trading price of our Shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since January 1, 2005, the sale prices of our Shares on the NASDAQ National Market have ranged from US$1.30 to US$10.39 per share and the last reported sale price on June 15, 2006 was US$7.02. Our Share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our Shares, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, our issuance of approximately US$15 million zero coupon convertible notes, 50 percent of which are due January 1, 2008 and 50 percent of which are due January 1, 2009 in conjunction with our acquisition of FunTown, may encourage short selling in our Shares by market participants because the conversion of the convertible notes could depress the price of our Shares. 20 Table of Contents 