D. RISK FACTORS Investing in our ordinary shares involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the value of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Our quarterly financial performance is likely to vary significantly in the future. Our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large orders in any given quarter. Because these orders generate disproportionately large revenues, our revenues and the rate of growth of our revenues for that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. In addition, some of our products have lengthy sales cycles. For example, it typically takes from three to 12 months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer. We also have a limited order backlog, which makes revenues in any quarter substantially dependent upon orders we deliver in that quarter. Because of these factors, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not meet market expectations or be indicative of future performance and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. We rely on a small number of marketing partners who distribute our products either under our name or as private label products for a significant portion of our business. We rely in great measure on original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, systems integrators and value added resellers, or VARs, to sell our products. Our OEM customers typically may purchase our products to integrate with products that they developed in-house to build complete IP communication solutions. Our systems integrator customers either purchase our full suite of products or integrate our individual products with those of other manufacturers in order to build complete IP communication solutions. Our VAR customers purchase our products to resell to end-users as separate units, or as part of a family of related product offerings, either under our RADVISION label or under their private label. If we are unable to maintain these marketing partners or obtain new marketing partners, our future revenues and profitability will be affected and we may lose market share. 3 One OEM customer accounted for approximately 27%, 35% and 34% of our sales in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our agreement with this OEM customer continues on a year to year basis and either party may terminate the relationship no later than 90 days prior to the expiration of the then current term. If this partner were to curtail or terminate its relationship with us, our sales would be materially adversely impacted and our revenues would decline. If the use of packet-based networks as a medium for real-time voice, video and data communication does not continue to grow, the demand for our products and technology will slow and our revenues will decline. Our future success depends on the growth in the use of packet-based networks, including the Internet and other IP networks, as a medium for real-time voice, video and data communication. If the use of packet-based networks does not expand, the demand for our products and technology will slow and our revenues will decline. Market acceptance of packet-based networks as a viable alternative to circuit-switched networks for the transmission of real-time voice and video communication is not proven and may be inhibited by concerns about quality of service and potentially inadequate development of the necessary infrastructure. We must develop new products and technology and enhancements to existing products and technology to remain competitive. If we fail to do so, we may lose market share to our competitors and our revenues may decline. The market for our products and technology is characterized by rapid technological change, new and improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our research and development team may not be as large as those of our competitors, which may result in longer lead times to develop and implement new technologies and may limit our ability to compete effectively with them and may result in our losing market share. Our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to: — timely identify new market trends; and — develop, introduce and support new and enhanced products and technology on a successful and timely basis. We may not be successful in developing new products and technology and enhancements to our existing products and technology. If we fail to develop and deploy new products and technology or product and technology enhancements on a successful and timely basis, we may lose market share to our competitors and our revenues may decline. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in products and technology that comply with those industry standards that we believe have been, or will be, broadly adopted. If one or more alternative standards were to gain greater acceptance than the standards that we believe have or will be broadly adopted, sales of our products and technology would suffer. Our current suite of IP communication protocol toolkits includes H.323, SIP (session initiation protocol), and SIP IMS (session initiation protocol IP multimedia subsystem), NAT (network address translation) Traversal, Diameter, MGCP (media gateway control protocol) and MEGACO (media gateway control protocol for large-scale IP-centric communication networks). We also support the 3G-324M protocol for real time multimedia services over 3G (Third Generation) networks. We also offer client and server software frameworks and complementary testing suite for H.323, Sip, SIP IMS, and 3G-324M. If future IP networks are not designed with components built around these protocols, or if one or more alternative protocols were to gain greater acceptance than these protocols, our investments may be of little or no value and sales of our products and technology would suffer. 4 Competition in the markets for our products and technology is intense. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets and we may lose market share to our competitors. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, which may limit our ability to compete effectively and discourage customers from purchasing our products and technology. The markets for our products and technology are highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. The principal competitors in the market for our network infrastructure unit products currently include Polycom Inc., TANDBERG and Codian. The principal competitors in the market for our toolkit business unit products currently include Hughes Software Systems acquired in 2004 by Flextronics Software Systems (now Aricent), Data Connection Limited and in-house developers employed by manufacturers of telecommunication equipment and systems. Additional competitors may enter each of our markets at any time. Moreover, our customers may seek to develop internally the products that we currently sell to them and compete with us. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets, and we may lose market share to our competitors. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, which may limit our ability to compete effectively with them. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. These competitors may also benefit from greater economies of scale, offer more aggressive pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. Any of these advantages may discourage customers from purchasing our products and technology. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or potential competitors, our revenues and margins will decline. Major solutions providers who currently work with us might compete with us in the future. We currently offer our technology either directly to or in association with, major solutions providers such as Aethra, Cisco, IBM, LifeSize, Siemens, Telstra and others. Some of these companies also purchase technology from our competitors. If these providers choose to develop their own technologies, acquire technologies from our competitors, or acquire such competitors, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted, and we may face increased levels of competition from these major companies. Our software development kit revenues will decrease if our customers choose to use open source that is available for free. Both Vovida Networks, Inc., a subsidiary of Cisco Systems Inc., and Open H.323 offer H.323 source code for free. In addition, Vovida Networks, Inc. offers MGCP and SIP source code for free. Other companies, including Microsoft and Nokia, may offer similar development kits as part of their product offerings. In addition there are other open source toolkits for SIP (SIP foundry) and Diameter (OpenDiameter). If our customers choose to use the free source code offered by any of these organizations instead of purchasing our technology, our revenues from the sale of our software development kits will decline. Our agreements with our customers generally do not have minimum purchase requirements. If our customers decrease or cease purchasing our products and technology, our revenues will decline. Our agreements with our customers generally do not have minimum purchase requirements nor do they require our customers to purchase any products from us. If any or all of our customers cease to purchase or reduce their purchases of our products and technology at any time, our revenues will decline. Our customers may choose to independently develop for themselves, or purchase from others, products and technology similar to our products and technology. Moreover, if our customers do not successfully market and sell the systems and products into which they incorporate our products and technology, the demand of these customers for our products and technology will decline. Our customers’ sales of systems and products containing our products and technology may be adversely affected by circumstances over which we have no control and over which our customers may have little, if any, control. 5 Undetected errors may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our products and technology have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Our customers integrate our products and technology into systems and products that they develop themselves or acquire from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in equipment or a system into which our products or technology have been incorporated, it may be difficult to identify the cause of the problem. Regardless of the source of these errors (whether the source is our products or technology or the products of another vendor), we must divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our research and development efforts to address the errors. We may incur warranty or repair costs, be subject to liability claims for damages related to product errors or experience delays as a result of these errors in the future. Any insurance policies that we may have may not provide sufficient protection or coverage should a claim be asserted. Moreover, the occurrence of errors, whether caused by our products or technology or the products of another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and injury to our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our profitability. Third parties have asserted in the past and may assert in the future against us infringement claims or claims that we have infringed a patent, copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. Some of these third parties have offered to license their intellectual property to our company. See Item. 8A. Financial Information – Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and could negatively affect our profitability. If there is a successful claim of product infringement against us and we are not able to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers of key components. If these suppliers delay or discontinue manufacture of these components, we may experience delays in shipments, increased costs and cancellation of orders for our products. We currently obtain key components used in the manufacture of our products from a sole supplier or from a limited number of suppliers. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these components could interrupt and delay manufacturing of our products and result in the cancellation of orders for our products. In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these components at any time. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all. Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify an alternative source of supply, we would have to modify our products to use a substitute component, which may cause delays in shipments, increased design and manufacturing costs and increased prices for our products. From time to time we issue irrevocable purchase orders to our suppliers. If market demand for our products declines, we may be required to recognize a provision for expected loss which may have a negative impact on our financial results. 6 We rely on third party technology and licenses. If we are unable to continue to license or purchase this technology on reasonable terms, we may face delays in releases of our products and may be required to reduce the functionality of our products derived from this technology. We rely on technology that we license or procure from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise obtain the technology, we will face delays in releases of our products or will be required to reduce the functionality of our products until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. We provide 3G-324M-based solutions to both service providers and equipment developers. If our 3G customers move to all IP networks or use of video over 3G mobile networks does not grow at anticipated levels, the demand for these products will end. The 3G-324M protocol is a circuit switched protocol for delivering real-time services (video primarily) over 3G mobile networks. This is a strong market both for our service provider gateways and our Technology Business Unit developer toolkits. However, we believe that the 3G-324M protocol will only be used until such time as packet switching technology such as HSPA (high speed packet access), IMS (IP multimedia subsystem), WiMax or an all-IP broadband mobile 3G network can sustain high quality, high bandwidth services. This is not expected to happen for a few years, but there are specific markets, such as in the United States, where the goal is to provide video services based exclusively on packet switching technology. As technology for real-time IP communications gains acceptance, service providers are expected to gradually move to all-IP architectures, as a result of which they may gradually cease to need our 3G-324M gateway. As service providers move to all-IP networks, our telecommunications equipment developer customers will no longer need to develop 3G-324M-based devices and sales of our 3G-324M toolkits would be adversely affected. In addition, if the use of video over 3G mobile networks does not grow at anticipated levels, sales of our 3G gateway would decrease and the solution may fail to proceed from trial stage to production stage. Third parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our intellectual property, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and negatively affect our profitability. Our success depends upon the protection of our technology, trade secrets and trademarks. Our profitability could suffer if third parties infringe upon our intellectual property rights or misappropriate our technology and other assets or the intellectual property rights licensed from third parties. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trade secret protection, trademark law, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements. We rely on third parties to protect their intellectual property which is licensed to us, but we do not generally investigate to what extent such intellectual property is protected. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter infringement or misappropriation. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of our products and technology is difficult. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which we currently sell or may in the future sell our products do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Failure to adequately protect or to promptly detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property could devalue our proprietary content and impair our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, whether or not the defense is successful. 7 We are dependent on our senior management. Any loss of the services of our senior management could negatively affect our business. Our future success depends to a large extent on the continued services of our senior management and key personnel. We do not carry key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. Any loss of the services of members of our senior management or other key personnel could negatively affect our business. Our failure to retain and attract personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales, and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified research and development, marketing and sales and technical customer support personnel. We intend to increase substantially the number of our employees who perform these functions. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. Our non-competition agreements with our employees may not be enforceable. If any of these employees leaves us and joins a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. We currently have non-competition agreements with our key employees in Israel. These agreements prohibit those employees, if they cease to work for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Under current U.S. and Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce these non-competition agreements. If we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, our competitors that employ our former employees could benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. In addition, we have non-competition agreements with only a limited number of employees outside of Israel, and we can not guarantee that such agreements are enforceable under applicable law. Government regulation could delay or prevent product offerings, resulting in decreased revenues. Our products are designed to operate with local telephone systems throughout the world and therefore must comply with the regulations of the Federal Communication Commission and other regulations affecting the transmission of voice, video and data over telecommunication and other media. Each time we introduce a new product, we are required to obtain regulatory approval in the countries in which it is offered. In certain cases, we rely on our resellers or other partners to obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals. In addition, we must periodically obtain renewals of the regulatory approvals for the use of our products in countries where we have already obtained approval. We cannot assure you that regulatory approval for our current products will be renewed or that regulatory approval for future products will be obtained. If we do not obtain the necessary approvals and renewals, we may be required to delay the sales of our products in those countries until approval for use is granted or renewed. This could result in decreased revenues. We are also subject to laws relating to the use and disposal of hazardous materials in electrical and electronic equipment. For example, in January 2005, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2005, which restrict the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment effective as of July 1, 2006. If we are unable to maintain compliance with those regulations, we may be denied the ability to sell our products in the European Union. This could result in decreased revenues, inventory write-offs and write-down provisions. 8 We manufacture and maintain an inventory of customized products for some customers who will have no obligation to purchase these products. If these customers fail to purchase these products, our financial results may be harmed. To satisfy the timing requirements of some of our larger customers, we manufacture and maintain an inventory of certain of our products that we will customize to the specifications of these customers. The size of this inventory will be based upon the purchasing history and forecasts of these customers, which we currently estimate to be approximately two months of sales to these customers. These customers will have no obligation to purchase the inventoried products at any time. If the customers for whom the inventoried products are manufactured do not purchase them, we may be required to modify the products for sale to others and we may be unable to find other purchasers. In either case, the value of the products may be materially diminished which may have a negative impact on our financial results. We depend on a limited number of manufacturing subcontractors with limited manufacturing capacity, and are exposed to the risk that these manufacturers may be unable to fulfill our orders on a timely basis and at the quality specifications that we require. As a result, we may not meet our customers’ demands, which could harm our business and results of operations. We currently depend on a limited number of contract manufacturers with limited manufacturing capacity to manufacture our products. The assembly of certain of our finished products, the manufacture of custom printed circuit boards utilized in electronic subassemblies and related services are also performed by these independent subcontractors. Reliance on third party manufacturers exposes us to significant risks, including risks resulting from: — potential lack of manufacturing capacity; — limited control over delivery schedules; — quality assurance and control; — manufacturing yields and production costs; — voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship with us; — difficulty in, and timeliness of, substituting any of our contract manufacturers, which could take as long as six months or more; — the economic and political conditions in their environment; and — their financial strength. If the operations of our contract manufacturers are halted, even temporarily, or if they are unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we may experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. In addition, because we outsource the manufacture of several of our products, we are required to place manufacturing orders well in advance of the time when we expect to sell these products. In the event that we order the manufacture of a greater or lesser amount of these products than we will ultimately require, we are generally obligated to purchase the surplus products or to forego or delay the sale or delivery of the products that we did not order in advance. In either case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any of these risks could result in manufacturing delays or increases in manufacturing costs and expenses. There may be an adverse affect on our profitability and consequently on our results of operations, if we incur increased costs. 9 Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Our share price has been volatile in the past and may decline in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past and may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in the future in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of key personnel; — future sales of our ordinary shares; and — stock market price, competitor's performances and volume fluctuations. Domestic and international stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in or surrounding Israel, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We could potentially in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (dollars on the NASDAQ Global Market and NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). Consequently, the trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Political, economic and military instability in Israel may disrupt our operations and negatively affect our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. We are incorporated under the laws of, and our principal executive offices and manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in, the State of Israel. As a result, political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel directly influence us. Any major hostilities involving Israel, a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Israel and its Arab neighbors have engaged in a number of armed conflicts. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Major hostilities between Israel and its neighbors may hinder Israel’s international trade and lead to economic downturn. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. There has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity in Israel, which began in September 2000 and which has continued with varying levels of severity through 2007. The future effect of this deterioration and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations is unclear. The election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council in January 2006 resulted in an escalation in violence among Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups. In July 2006, extensive hostilities began along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. In June 2007, there was an escalation in violence in the Gaza Strip resulting in Hamas effectively controlling the Gaza Strip and a further escalation in violence has occurred during the first few months of 2008. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians as well as tension between Israel and the neighboring Syria and Lebanon may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli Defense Forces and may be called for active duty under emergency circumstances at any time. If a military conflict or war arises, these individuals could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees or a significant number of other employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations could adversely affect our business. Because most of our revenues are generated in dollars or are linked to the dollar while a portion of our expenses are incurred in NIS, our results of operations would be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. Most of our revenues are in dollars or are linked to the dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses, are in NIS. Therefore, our NIS related costs, as expressed in U.S. dollars, are influenced by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS. During 2007, the NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar, which resulted in a significant increase in the U.S. dollar cost of our NIS expenses. We are also exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations. In the past, the NIS has devalued against foreign currencies, generally reflecting inflation rate differentials. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. 11 The tax benefits from our approved enterprise and beneficiary enterprise programs require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor of the State of Israel has granted approved enterprise status to two investment programs at our manufacturing facility and two programs qualify as beneficiary enterprises. The portion of our income derived from any of our approved enterprise programs and beneficiary enterprise programs, commencing when we begin to generate net income from these programs, is exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax rate for an additional five to eight years, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program and a beneficiary enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated in applicable law and, for an approved enterprise, the conditions contained in the certificate of approval from the Investment Center, and for our beneficiary enterprises, a pre-ruling that we received from the Israeli Tax Authority in October 2007. If we fail to comply with one or more of these conditions, we may be required to pay additional taxes during the period in which we would have benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. Service and enforcement of legal process on us and our directors and officers may be difficult to obtain. Service of process upon our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report, most of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, since substantially most our assets, our directors and officers and the Israeli experts named in this annual report are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations and other conditions, Israeli courts may enforce final judgments of United States courts for liquidated amounts in civil matters, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of those Acts. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult our acquisition by a third-party, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or other acquisition of, us. This could cause our ordinary shares to trade at prices below the price for which third parties might be willing to pay to gain control of us. Third parties who are otherwise willing to pay a premium over prevailing market prices to gain control of us may be unable or unwilling to do so because of these provisions of Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our memorandum of association, articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. Israeli law provides that these duties are applicable in shareholder votes at the general meeting with respect to, among other things, amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers and actions and transactions involving interests of officers, directors or other interested parties which require the shareholders’ general meeting’s approval. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that he or she possesses the power to determine the outcome of a vote at a meeting of our shareholders, or who has, by virtue of the company’s articles of association, the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company, or any other power with respect to the company, has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. There is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 12 As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow a home country practice instead of such requirements, must submit to NASDAQ in advance a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or on its website each such requirement that it does not follow and describe the home country practice followed by the issuer instead of any such requirement. As a foreign private issuer listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, we may follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, composition of the board of directors, director nomination procedure, compensation of officers, and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans, an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. We may fail to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 governing internal controls and procedures for financial reporting, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. We may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the market price of our ordinary shares. Market performance may decrease the value of our assets and may cause us to incur impairment charges relating to our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, we had $43.1 million in short and long-term marketable securities. The performance of the capital markets affects the value of funds held by us in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates. Due to recent market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades, the fair value of these investments has declined and may decline in the future. We expect that market conditions will continue to fluctuate in the foreseeable future and that the fair value of our investments may be impacted accordingly. 13 One of our primary market risk exposures is to changes in interest rates as a result of our investment in marketable securities. A decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may seek to refinance their borrowings at lower rates and, accordingly, prepay or redeem securities we hold more quickly than we initially expected. This action may cause us to reinvest the redeemed proceeds in lower yielding investments. An increase in market interest rates could also have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair value of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had $4.1 million of principal invested in auction rate securities, or ARS, representing interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by insurance securitizations and other structured credits. The estimated market value of our ARS holdings at December 31, 2007 was $3.5 million, which reflects a $0.6 million adjustment to the principal value of $4.1 million. Although the ARS continue to pay interest according to their stated terms, based on valuation models and an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, reflecting the portion of ARS holdings that we have concluded have an other-than-temporary decline in value. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded an unrealized holding loss of $182,000 in other comprehensive income as a reduction in shareholders’ equity that we concluded has a temporary decline in value. The credit and capital markets have continued to deteriorate in 2008. If uncertainties in these markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or we experience any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including on ARS), we may incur additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. 