ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our future business, financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from our historical results or currently anticipated results, including those set forth below. Risks Related to Our Business Recent domestic and worldwide economic conditions have adversely affected and may further adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Recently, general domestic and global economic conditions have been negatively impacted by several factors, including, among others, the subprime-mortgage crisis in the housing market, going concern threats to investment banks, other financial institutions and major automobile companies, reduced corporate and consumer spending, and decreased consumer confidence. These economic conditions have resulted in our facing one of the most challenging periods in our history. The image sensor market has been negatively impacted by the current global economic environment. In particular, we believe the current economic conditions have reduced spending by consumers and businesses in markets into which we sell our products in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and the continued uncertainty of the global economy. End customer demand has decreased significantly throughout the industry, affecting all consumer electronic products, security products and products for the automotive industry. Consequently, the overall demand for image sensors has also decreased. This decrease in demand is having a significant impact on our revenues, results of operations and overall business. Our revenues for the three-month period ended April 30, 2009 were lower than similar historical periods. These conditions could also have a number of additional effects on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers or manufacturers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, customer insolvencies, increased pricing pressures, restructuring expenses and associated diversion of management's attention, excess inventory and increased difficulty in accurately forecasting product demand and planning future business activities. It is uncertain how long the current economic conditions will last or how quickly any subsequent economic recovery will occur. If the economy or markets into which we sell our products continue to slow or any subsequent economic recovery is slow to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be further materially and adversely affected. We face intense competition in our markets from CMOS and CCD image-sensor manufacturers, and if we are unable to compete successfully we may not be able to maintain or grow our business. The image-sensor market is intensely competitive, and we expect competition in this industry to continue to increase. This competition has resulted in rapid technological change, evolving standards, reductions in product selling prices and rapid product obsolescence. If we are unable to successfully meet these competitive challenges, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business. Any inability on our part to compete successfully would also adversely affect our results of operations and impair our financial condition. Our image-sensor products face competition from other companies that sell CMOS image sensors and from companies that sell CCD image sensors. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, more established strategic and financial relationships and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. Many of them also have their own manufacturing facilities which may give them a competitive advantage. As a result, they may be able to 18 Table of Contents adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Our competitors include established CMOS image-sensor manufacturers such as Aptina Imaging, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, STMicroelectronics and Toshiba as well as CCD image sensor manufacturers such as Fuji, Kodak, NEC, Panasonic, Sanyo, Sharp, Sony and Toshiba. Many of these competitors own and operate their own fabrication facilities, which in certain circumstances may give them the ability to price their products more aggressively than we can or may allow them to respond more rapidly than we can to changing market opportunities. In addition, we compete with a large number of smaller CMOS manufacturers including Foveon, PixArt, Pixelplus, Pixim, SETi and SiliconFile. Competition with these and other companies has required, and in the future may require, us to reduce our prices. For instance, we have seen increased competition in the markets for VGA image sensor products with resulting pressures on product pricing. Downward pressure on pricing could result both in decreased revenues and lower gross margins, which would adversely affect our profitability. From time to time, other companies enter the CMOS image sensor market by using obsolete and available manufacturing equipment. These new entrants gain market share in the short term by pricing their products significantly below current market levels, which puts additional downward pressure on the prices we can obtain for our products. Our competitors may acquire or enter into strategic or commercial agreements or arrangements with foundries or providers of color filter processing, assembly or packaging services. These strategic arrangements between our competitors and third party service providers could involve preferential or exclusive arrangements for our competitors. Such strategic alliances could impair our ability to secure sufficient capacity from foundries and service providers to meet our demand for wafer manufacturing, color filter processing, assembly or packaging services, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer demand for our products. In addition, competitors may enter into exclusive relationships with distributors, which could reduce available distribution channels for our products and impair our ability to sell our products and grow our business. Further, some of our customers could also become developers of image sensors, and this could potentially adversely affect our results of operations, business and prospects. Reductions in our average selling prices may lower our revenues and, as a result, may reduce our gross margins. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pressure to reduce the selling prices of our products, and our average selling prices have declined as a result. Competition in our product markets is intense and as this competition continues to intensify, we anticipate that these pricing pressures will increase. We expect that the average selling prices for many of our products will continue to decline over time. Unless we can increase unit sales sufficiently to offset these declines in our average selling prices, our revenues will decline. Reductions in our average selling prices have adversely affected our gross margins, and unless we can reduce manufacturing costs to compensate, additional reductions in our average selling prices will continue to adversely affect our gross margins and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impair our financial condition. Although we may decrease our research, development and related expenses in the short-term as we implement certain cost reduction measures, historically we have increased and may continue to increase our research, development and related expenses in the long-term to continue the development of new image sensor products that can be sold at higher selling prices and/or manufactured at lower cost. However, if we are unable to timely introduce new products that incorporate more advanced technology and include more advanced features that can be sold at higher average selling prices, or if we are unable to successfully develop more cost-effective technologies, our financial results could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Sales of our image-sensor products for mobile phones account for a large portion of our revenues, and any decline in sales to the mobile phone market or failure of this market to continue to grow as expected could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales to the mobile phone market account for a large portion of our revenues. Although we can only estimate the percentages of our products that are used in the mobile phone market due to the significant number of our image-sensor products that are sold to module makers or through distributors and VARs, we believe that the mobile phone market accounted for approximately 70% and 65% of our revenues in fiscal 2008 and 2009, respectively. We expect that revenues from sales of our image-sensor products to the mobile phone market will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues during fiscal 2010 and beyond. Any factors adversely affecting the demand for our image sensors in this market could cause our business to suffer and adversely affect our operating results. The digital image sensor market for mobile phones is extremely competitive, and we expect to face increased competition in this market in the future. In addition, we believe the market for mobile phones is also relatively concentrated and the top five producers account for more than 80% of the annual sales of these products. If we do not continue to achieve design wins with key mobile phone manufacturers, our market share or revenues could decrease. The mobile phone image-sensor market is also subject to rapid technological change. In order to compete successfully in this market, we will have to correctly forecast customer demand for technological improvements and be able to deliver such products on a timely basis at competitive prices. If we fail to do this, our results of operations, business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced problems accurately forecasting customer demand in other markets. In addition, current domestic and global economic conditions could negatively affect the mobile phone market if consumers and/or businesses defer purchases in this market in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, and/or decreased corporate or consumer spending. If our sales to the mobile phone market do not increase and/or the mobile phone market does not grow as expected, our results of operations, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends on the timely development, introduction, marketing and selling of new products, which we might not be able to achieve. Our failure to successfully develop new products that achieve market acceptance in a timely fashion would adversely affect our ability to grow our business and our operating results. The development, introduction and market acceptance of new products is critical to our ability to sustain and grow our business. Any failure to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. The development of new products is highly complex, and we have in the past experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. From time to time, we have also encountered unexpected manufacturing problems as we increase the production of new products. As our products integrate new and more advanced technologies and functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design, debug and produce. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including: •accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, output interface standards, power requirements, optical lens size, input standards and operating systems for webcams and other platforms; •development of advanced technologies and capabilities, including our new CameraCube and OmniBSI technology; •definition, timely completion and introduction of new CMOS image sensors that satisfy customer requirements; 20 Table of Contents •development of products that maintain a technological advantage over the products of our competitors, including our advantages with respect to the functionality and pixel capability of our image-sensor products and our proprietary testing processes; and •market acceptance of the new products. Accomplishing all of these steps is difficult, time consuming and expensive. We may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in time to capture market opportunities or achieve significant or sustainable acceptance in new and existing markets. In addition, our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a rapid change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or the reduced life cycles of consumer products. Design wins are a key determinant of future revenues, and failure to obtain design wins adversely affects our revenues and impairs our ability to grow our business. Our past success has been, and our future success is, dependent upon manufacturers designing our image-sensor products into their products. To achieve design wins, which are decisions by manufacturers to design our products into their systems, we must define and deliver cost effective and innovative image-sensor solutions on a timely basis that satisfy the manufacturers' requirements. Our ability to achieve design wins is subject to numerous risks including competitive pressures as well as technological risks. If we do not achieve a design win with a prospective customer, it may be difficult to sell our image-sensor products to such prospective customer in the future because once a manufacturer has designed a supplier's products into its systems, the manufacturer may be reluctant to change its source of components due to the significant costs, time, effort and risk associated with qualifying a new supplier and modifying its design platforms. Accordingly, if we fail to achieve design wins with key device manufacturers that embed image sensors in their products, our market share or revenues could decrease. Furthermore, to the extent that our competitors secure design wins, our ability to expand our business in the future will be impaired. We depend on a limited number of third party wafer foundries, which reduces our ability to control our manufacturing process. Unlike some of our larger competitors, we do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Instead, we rely on TSMC, PSC and other subcontract foundries to produce all of our wafers. Historically, we have relied on TSMC to provide us with a substantial majority of our wafers. As a part of our joint venture agreement with TSMC, TSMC has agreed to commit substantial wafer manufacturing capacity to us in exchange for our commitment to purchase a substantial portion of our wafers from TSMC, subject to pricing and technology requirements. In addition, we have entered into a foundry manufacturing agreement with PSC pursuant to which we and PSC have agreed to jointly develop certain pixel-related process technology and for PSC to process certain of our CMOS image sensors at PSC's facilities in accordance with the scheduled development approved by both parties. Under the terms of these supply agreements, we secure manufacturing capacity in any particular period on a purchase order basis. The foundries have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. In general, our reliance on third party foundries involves a number of significant risks, including: •reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; •lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; 21 Table of Contents •unavailability of, or delayed access to, next generation or key process technologies; and •financial difficulties or disruptions in the operations of third party foundries due to causes beyond our control. The current global economic conditions could materially affect our foundries and cause them to be unable to provide necessary services to us. If TSMC, PSC, or any of our other foundries were unable to continue manufacturing our wafers in the required quantities, at acceptable quality, yields and costs, or in a timely manner, we would have to identify and qualify substitute foundries, which would be time consuming and difficult, and could increase our costs or result in unforeseen manufacturing problems. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases we may be required to pay increased amounts for manufacturing services. We are also exposed to additional risks if we transfer our production of semiconductors from one foundry to another, as such transfer could interrupt our manufacturing process. Further, some of our foundries may also develop their own of image-sensor products and if one or more of our other foundries were to decide not to fabricate our companion DSP chips for competitive or other reasons, we would have to identify and qualify other sources for these products. We rely on a joint venture company for color filter application and on third party service providers for packaging and other back-end services, which reduces our control over delivery schedules, product quality and cost, and could adversely affect our ability to deliver products to customers. We rely on VisEra, our joint venture with TSMC, for the color filter processing of our completed wafers and the assembly of our CameraCube imaging devices. In addition, we rely on Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. and on ImPac, our equity investee, for substantially all of our ceramic chip packages. We rely on XinTec and WLCSP, two investee companies, for chip scale packages, which are generally used in our products designed for the smallest form factor applications. We rely on several specialized service providers, one of which is ImPac, to perform the necessary wafer probe tests and prepare good die for use in a form called chip-on-board, a process called reconstructing wafers. The current global economic conditions could adversely affect these service providers' ability to continue to fulfill our packaging, color filter processing and related requirements. If for any reason one or more of these service providers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs or in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. We would have to identify and qualify substitute service providers, which could be time consuming and difficult and could result in unforeseen operational problems. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. In addition, if competition for color filter processing, packaging, capacity or other back-end services increases, we may be required to pay or invest significant amounts to secure access to these services, which could adversely impact our operating results. The number of companies that provide these services is limited and some of them have limited operating histories and financial resources. In the event our current providers refuse or are unable to continue to provide these services to us, we may be unable to procure services from alternate service providers. Furthermore, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. These factors may cause unforeseen product shortages or may increase our costs of manufacturing, assembling or testing of our products, which would adversely affect our operating results. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results have caused volatility in the market price of our common stock and also make it difficult to predict our future operating results. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond 22 Table of Contents our control. These factors and other industry risks, many of which are more fully discussed in our other risk factors, include, but are not limited to: •adverse changes in domestic or global economic conditions, including the current economic crisis; •the volume and mix of our product sales; •competitive pricing pressures; •our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; •our ability to achieve acceptable wafer manufacturing or back-end processing yields; •our gain or loss of a large customer; •our ability to manage our product transitions; •the availability of production capacity at the suppliers that manufacture our products or process our products; •the growth of the market for products and applications using CMOS image sensors; •the timing and size of orders from our customers; •the volume of our product returns; •the seasonal nature of customer demand for our products; •the deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products, product designs or enhancements; •the announcement and introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; •the fair value of our interest rate swaps; •the impairment of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets; •the level of our operating expenses; and •fluctuations in our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter. Our introduction of new products and our product mix have affected and may continue to affect our quarterly operating results. Changes in our product mix could adversely affect our operating results, because some products provide higher margins than others. We typically experience lower yields when manufacturing new products through the initial production phase, and consequently our gross margins on new products have historically been lower than our gross margins on our more established products. We also anticipate that the rate of orders from our customers may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our inventory levels are based on our expectations of future revenues. Consequently, if we do not achieve the revenues we expect in any quarter, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, adversely impacting our operating results for that quarter, and potentially in future quarters. All of these factors are difficult to forecast and could result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our operating results in a given quarter could be substantially less than anticipated, and, if we fail to meet market analysts' expectations, a substantial decline in our stock price could result. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could adversely affect the price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. 23 Table of Contents Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our quarterly operating results We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we do utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk. We have a variable rate mortgage loan that totaled $36.4 million as of April 30, 2009. To manage the related interest rate risk, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements, effectively converting our mortgage loan into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the fair values of the swap contracts, which will either be amounts receivable from or payable to counterparties, are reflected as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Also, we have to record their fair value changes in our consolidated statements of operations, in "Other expense, net." The associated impact on our quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, we would have a non-cash gain on the swap, and vice versa. Consequently, these swap contracts will introduce volatility to our operating results. We are also exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to the interest rate swap agreements. However, we do not anticipate non-performance by the counterparties. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations which may in turn cause fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period. Many of the products using our image sensors, such as mobile phones, notebooks and webcams, DSCs and cameras for toys and games, are consumer electronics goods. These mass-market camera devices generally have seasonal cycles which historically have caused the sales of our customers to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter. Historically, demand from OEMs and distributors that serve such consumer product markets has been stronger in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year and weaker in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, since a very large number of the manufacturers who use our products are located in China and Taiwan, the pattern of demand for our image sensors has been increasingly influenced by the timing of the extended lunar or Chinese New Year holiday, a period in which the factories which use our image sensors generally close. For example, we believe that the decline in revenues that we experienced in the fourth quarters of fiscal 2007 and 2008 is partly attributable to the fact that in 2007 and 2008 Chinese New Year occurred in mid-February, and manufacturing did not resume in full for several weeks. Problems with wafer manufacturing and/or back-end processing yields could result in higher product costs and could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. If the foundries manufacturing the wafers used in our products cannot achieve the yields we expect, we will incur higher unit costs and reduced product availability. Foundries that supply our wafers have experienced problems in the past achieving acceptable wafer manufacturing yields. Wafer yields are a function both of our design technology and the particular foundry's manufacturing process technology. Certain risks are inherent in the introduction of new products and technology. Low yields may result from design errors or manufacturing failures in new or existing products. During the early stages of production, production yields for new products are typically lower than those of established products. Unlike many other semiconductor products, optical products can be effectively tested only when they are complete. Accordingly, we perform final testing of our products only after they are assembled. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until our products are well into the production process. The risks associated with low yields could be increased because we rely on third party offshore foundries for our wafers, which can increase the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. In addition to wafer manufacturing yields, our products are subject to yield loss in subsequent manufacturing steps, often referred to as back-end 24 Table of Contents processing, such as the application of color filters and micro-lenses, dicing (cutting the wafer into individual devices, or die) and packaging. Any of these potential problems with wafer manufacturing and/or back-end processing yields could result in a reduction in our gross margins and/or our ability to timely deliver products to customers, which could adversely affect our customer relations and make it more difficult to sustain and grow our business. If we do not forecast customer demand correctly, our business could be impaired and our stock price may decline. Our sales are generally made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments; however, we manufacture products and build inventory based on our estimates of customer demand. Accordingly, we must rely on multiple assumptions to forecast customer demand. We are continually working to improve our sales forecasting procedures. The current domestic and global economic conditions have made it extremely challenging to accurately predict customer demand because recent demand has significantly decreased and historical models for predicting customer demand may no longer be reliable. If we overestimate customer demand, we may manufacture products that we may be unable to sell, or we may have to sell at lower prices. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers may cancel or defer orders at any time by mutual written consent. We have experienced problems with accurately forecasting customer demand in the past. For example, there was a significant decline in product demand in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and as a result our inventories at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2009 were higher than we intended them to be. We need to accurately predict customer demand because we must often make commitments to have products manufactured before we receive firm purchase orders from our customers. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient products quickly enough to meet actual demand, causing us to lose customers and impairing our ability to grow our business. In preparation for new product introductions, we gradually ramp down production of established products. With our 12-14 week production cycle, it is extremely difficult to predict precisely how many units of established products we will need. It is also difficult to accurately predict the speed of the ramp of our new products and the impact on inventory levels presented by the shorter life cycles of end-user products. The shorter product life cycle is a result of an increase in competition and the growth of various consumer-product applications for image sensors. Under these circumstances, it is possible that we could suffer from shortages for certain products and, if we underestimate market demand, we face the risk of being unable to fulfill customer orders. We also face the risk of excess inventory and product obsolescence if we overestimate market demand for our products and build inventories in excess of demand. Our ability to accurately forecast sales is also a critical factor in our ability to meet analyst expectations for our quarterly and annual operating results. Any failure to meet these expectations would likely lead to a substantial decline in our stock price. We depend on the increased acceptance of mass-market image-sensor applications to grow our business and increase our revenues. Our business strategy depends in large part on the continued growth of various markets into which we sell our image-sensor products, including the markets for mobile phones, notebook and webcams, digital still and video cameras, commercial and security and surveillance applications, toys and games, including interactive video games, automotive and medical applications. If these markets do not grow and develop as we anticipate, we may be unable to sustain or grow the sales of our products. Each of these markets has already been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by current global economic conditions where consumers and businesses have deferred purchases of products in these markets as a result of tighter credit, negative financial news, and decreased corporate or consumer spending. Such conditions have negatively affected, and may continue to negatively affect, our business. 25 Table of Contents In addition, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected if certain of these new markets do not emerge or develop as expected. Securities analysts may already factor revenue from such new markets into their future estimates of our financial performance and should such markets not develop as expected by such securities analysts the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our lengthy manufacturing, packaging and assembly cycle, in addition to our customers' design cycle, may result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenues. The production of our image sensors requires a lengthy manufacturing, packaging and assembly process, typically lasting approximately 12-14 weeks. Additional time may pass before a customer commences taking volume shipments of products that incorporate our image sensors. Even when a manufacturer decides to design our image sensors into its products, the manufacturer may never ship final products incorporating our image sensors. Given this lengthy cycle, we experience a delay between the time we incur expenditures for research and development and sales and marketing efforts and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. This delay makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand, which adds uncertainty to the manufacturing planning process and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the product life cycle for certain of our image-sensor products designed for use in certain applications can be relatively short. If we fail to appropriately manage the manufacturing, packaging and assembly process, our products may become obsolete before they can be incorporated into our customers' products and we may never realize a return on investment for the expenditures we incur in developing and producing these products. Our ability to deliver products that meet customer demand is dependent upon our ability to meet new and changing requirements for color filter application and image-sensor packaging. We expect that as we develop new products to meet technological advances and new and changing industry and customer demands, our color filter application and ceramic, plastic and chip scale packaging requirements will also evolve. Our ability to continue to profitably deliver products that meet customer demand is dependent upon our ability to obtain third party services that meet these new requirements on a cost-effective basis. There can be no assurances that any of these parties will be able to develop enhancements to the services they provide to us to meet these new and changing industry and customer requirements. Furthermore, even if these service providers are able to develop their services to meet new and evolving requirements, these services may not be available at a cost that enables us to sustain our profitability. The high level of complexity and integration of our products increases the risk of latent defects, which could damage customer relationships and increase our costs. Our products are based upon evolving technology, and because we integrate many functions on a single chip, are highly complex. The integration of additional functions into already complex products could result in a greater risk that customers or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults after we have already shipped significant quantities of a product. Although we test our products, we have in the past and may in the future encounter defects or errors. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we recorded a provision of $2.7 million related to the possible replacement of products that did not meet a particular customer's standards. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems may damage our reputation and ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, product warranty costs for recall and replacement and product liability claims against us which may not be fully covered by insurance. 26 Table of Contents We depend for the majority of our revenues on a few key customers and, the loss of one or more of our key customers could significantly reduce our revenues. A relatively small number of OEMs, VARs and distributors account for a significant portion of our revenues. Any material delay, cancellation or reduction of purchase orders from one or more of our major customers or distributors could result in our failure to achieve anticipated revenue for a particular period. Such a delay, cancellation or reduction could be caused by, among other things, such customers or distributors being materially and adversely affected by the current domestic and global economic conditions. In addition, if we are unable to retain one or more of our largest OEM, distributor or VAR customers, or if we are unable to maintain our current level of revenues from one or more of these significant customers, our business and results of operation would be impaired and our stock price could decrease, potentially significantly. In fiscal 2009, one OEM customer accounted for approximately 10.4% of our revenues, and one distributor customer accounted for approximately 22.4% of our revenues. In addition, in fiscal 2009, approximately 59.5% of our revenues came from sales to our top five customers. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will continue to depend significantly on our ability to retain our current key customers and to attract new customers, as well as on the financial condition and success of our OEMs, VARs and distributors. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our intangible assets or long-term investments become impaired. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which we determine that our intangible assets or long-term investments have been impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our results of operations. As of April 30, 2009, our intangible assets totaled approximately $7.4 million and our long-term investments totaled approximately $85.5 million. We maintain a backlog of customer orders that is subject to cancellation or delay in delivery schedules, and any cancellation or delay may result in lower than anticipated revenues. Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders. We include in our backlog only those customer orders for which we have accepted purchase orders and assigned shipment dates within the upcoming 12 months. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to cancellation or changes in delivery schedules, and backlog may not necessarily be an indication of future revenue. Any cancellation or delay in orders which constitute our current or future backlog may result in lower than expected revenues. If we are unable to maintain processes and procedures to sustain effective internal control over our financial reporting, our ability to provide reliable and timely financial reports could be harmed and this could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We are required to comply with the rules promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires that we prepare an annual management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and requires a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 27 Table of Contents We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control that need improvement. For example, we restated our financial statements for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2004. If these or similar types of issues were to arise with respect to our internal controls in future periods, they could impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial reports. As our business changes, ongoing compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and maintenance of effective internal control over financial reporting will require that we hire additional qualified finance and accounting personnel. Because other businesses face similar challenges, there is significant competition for such personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and/or retain suitably qualified employees. Corporate governance regulations have increased our compliance costs and could further increase our expenses if changes occur within our business. We are subject to corporate governance laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, that impose certain requirements on us and on our officers, directors, attorneys and independent registered public accounting firm. In order to comply with these rules, we added internal resources and have utilized additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which increased our operating expenses. We expect to incur ongoing operating expenses as we maintain compliance with Section 404. In addition, if we undergo significant modifications to our structure through personnel or system changes, acquisitions, or otherwise, it may be increasingly difficult to maintain compliance with the existing and evolving corporate governance regulations. We hold a significant amount of marketable securities which are subject to general market risks over which we have no control. As of April 30, 2009, we held cash and cash equivalents totaling $257.8 million, and short-term investments totaling $17.0 million. These assets are managed on our behalf by unrelated third parties in accordance with a cash management policy that has been approved by our board of directors and restricts our investments to a maximum maturity of 18 months and to investment-grade instruments. As of April 30, 2009, we did not hold any illiquid investments and we have not realized any losses. However, recent uncertainties in global capital markets associated with a repricing of risk have caused disruptions in the orderly function of markets where ordinarily there is virtually unlimited liquidity. If we were to make a future investment in certain illiquid securities that are dependent on the orderly functioning of the capital markets, and if we were required to liquidate this type of securities at short notice, such liquidation could result in losses of principal. There are risks associated with our operations in China. In December 2000, we established OmniVision Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., or OSC, as part of our efforts to streamline our manufacturing process and reduce the costs and working capital associated with the testing of our image-sensor products, and relocated our automated image testing equipment from the United States to China. We are currently expanding our testing capabilities with additional automated testing equipment, which will also be located in China. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, OmniVision Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., or OTC, we are also developing land and constructing research facilities in Shanghai. There are certain administrative, legal and governmental risks to operating in China that could result in increased operating expenses or could hamper us in the development of our operations in China. More recently we invested in a company in China that is providing a portion of our CSP packaging requirements. The risks from operating in 28 Table of Contents China that could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to deliver our products and grow our business include, without limitation: •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, particularly in attracting and retaining personnel qualified to design, sell, test and support CMOS image sensors; •difficulties in managing employee relations; •increases in the value of the Chinese Yuan, or CNY; •difficulties in coordinating our operations in China with those in California; •difficulties in enforcing contracts in China; •difficulties in protecting intellectual property; •diversion of management attention; •imposition of burdensome governmental regulations; •difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across our global operations, including inventory management and financial consolidation; •political and economic instability, which could have an adverse impact on foreign exchange rates in Asia and could impair our ability to conduct our business in China; and •inadequacy of the local infrastructure to support our operations. We may experience integration or other problems with potential future acquisitions, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. New acquisitions could dilute the interests of existing stockholders, and the announcement of new acquisitions could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We may in the future make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe would complement our products, including CMOS image-sensor manufacturers. We may also make acquisitions of or investments in, businesses that we believe could expand our distribution channels. Even if we were to announce an acquisition, we may not be able to complete it. In addition, any future acquisition or substantial investment could present numerous risks, including: •difficulty in realizing the potential technological benefits of the transaction; •difficulty in integrating the technology, operations or work force of the acquired business with our existing business; •unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; •disruption of our ongoing business; •difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; •difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •possible impairment of relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and strategic partners as a result of integration of new businesses and management personnel; •reductions in our future operating results from amortization of intangible assets; •impairment of resulting goodwill; and •potential unknown or unexpected liabilities associated with acquired businesses. 29 Table of Contents We expect that any future acquisitions could include consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and our common stock. If and when consideration for a transaction is paid in common stock, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We may not achieve continued benefits from our joint venture with TSMC. In October 2003, we entered into an agreement with TSMC to form VisEra, a joint venture in Taiwan, for the purposes of providing manufacturing services. In August 2005 and again in January 2007, we entered into amendments to the agreement with TSMC to expand the scope of VisEra's activities and provide additional funding for the expansion of VisEra. In January 2006, VisEra acquired certain color filter processing equipment from TSMC and assumed direct responsibility for providing the color filter processing services that had previously been provided to us by TSMC. We expect that VisEra will be able to provide us with a committed supply of high quality manufacturing services at competitive prices. However, there are significant legal, governmental and relationship risks to developing VisEra, and we cannot ensure that we will continue to receive the expected benefits from the joint venture. For example, VisEra may not be able to provide manufacturing services that have competitive technology or prices, which could adversely affect our product offerings and our ability to meet customer requirements for our products. In addition, the existence of VisEra may also make it more difficult for us to secure dependable services from competing merchant vendors who provide similar manufacturing services. We may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our alliances with, and strategic investments in, third parties. We expect to develop our business partly through forming alliances or joint ventures with and making strategic investments in other companies, some of which may be companies at a relatively early stage of development. For example, in April 2003, we made an investment in XinTec, a company that provides chip scale packaging services, and in June 2003 we made an investment in ImPac, a packaging service company. In December 2005, VisEra, our joint venture with TSMC, completed the acquisition of a further 29.6% of the issued and outstanding shares of XinTec. In January 2007, TSMC acquired directly a 43.0% interest in XinTec, thus reducing our beneficial ownership in XinTec to 12.3%. In May 2007, we acquired approximately 20.0% of the registered capital of WLCSP, a company that also provides chip scale packaging services. In May 2004, we entered into an agreement with PSC under which we established SOI, a joint venture as a company incorporated under the laws of Taiwan. The purpose of the joint venture is to conduct the business of manufacturing, marketing and selling of certain of our legacy products. In March 2005, we assumed control of the board of directors of SOI and we have consolidated SOI since April 30, 2005. Toward the end of fiscal 2009, SOI began to investigate the market potential of touch panels that track touches with optical sensors. SOI may begin to produce optical sensors for this application in fiscal 2010. Our investments in these and other companies may negatively impact our operating results, because, under certain circumstances, we are required to recognize our portion of any loss recorded by each of these companies or to consolidate them into our operating results. We expect to continue to utilize partnerships, strategic alliances and investments, particularly those that enhance our manufacturing capacity and those that provide manufacturing services and testing capability. These investments and partnering arrangements are crucial to our ability to grow our business and meet the increasing demands of our customers. However, we cannot ensure that we will achieve the benefits we expect from these alliances. For example, we may not be able to obtain acceptable quality and/or wafer manufacturing yields from these companies, which could result in higher operating costs and could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. In addition, certain of these investments 30 Table of Contents or partnering relationships may place restrictions on the scope of our business, the geographic areas in which we can sell our products and the types of products that we can manufacture and sell. For example, our agreement with TSMC provides that we may not engage in business that will directly compete with the business of VisEra. This type of non-competition provision may impact our ability to grow our business and to meet the demands of our customers. Changes in our relationships with our joint ventures and/or companies in which we hold less than a majority interest could change the way we account for such interests in the future. As part of our strategy, we have formed joint ventures with two of our foundry partners, and we hold a minority interest in three companies from which we purchase certain manufacturing services. Under the applicable provisions of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, we currently consolidate one of these joint ventures into our consolidated financial statements and results of operations, and record the equity interests that we do not own as minority interests. For the investments that we account for under the equity method, we record as part of other income or expense our share of the increase or decrease in the equity of the companies in which we have invested. It is possible that, in the future, our relationships and/or our interests in or with these joint ventures or other investees could change. Such changes have in the past, and could in the future result in deconsolidation or consolidation of such entities, as the case may be, which could result in changes in our reported results. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, and therefore we may lose some of our competitive advantage. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been issued patents and have a number of pending United States and foreign patent applications. However, we cannot provide assurance that any patent will be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. It is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For example, in August 2002, we initiated a patent infringement action in Taiwan, Republic of China against IC Media Corporation of San Jose, California for infringement of a Taiwanese patent that had been issued to us. In response to our patent infringement action, in October 2002, IC Media Corporation initiated a cancellation proceeding in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Office with respect to our patent. In July 2003, the Taiwan Intellectual Property Office made an initial determination to grant the cancellation of the subject patent, which decision was upheld by the Taiwan Ministry of Economic Affairs and the High Administrative Court. We decided not to appeal such decision by the May 31, 2005 deadline. Although we do not believe the cancellation of the Taiwanese patent at issue in the dispute described above has had a material adverse effect on our business or prospects, there may be other situations where our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and operating results. If a third party can copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop corresponding technology independently or design around our patents, this could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. Any disputes over our intellectual property rights, whatever the ultimate resolution of such disputes, may result in costly and time-consuming litigation or require the license of additional elements of intellectual property for a fee. 31 Table of Contents Litigation regarding intellectual property could divert management attention, be costly to defend and prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving intellectual property rights, including in the semiconductor industry. We have in the past been, currently are and may in the future be, subject to legal proceedings and claims with respect to our intellectual property, including such matters as trade secrets, patents, product liabilities and other actions arising out of the normal course of business. These claims may increase as our intellectual property portfolio becomes larger or more valuable. Intellectual property claims against us, and any resulting lawsuit, may cause us to incur significant expenses, subject us to liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. Any potential intellectual property litigation against us would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management's time and attention and could also force us to take actions such as: •ceasing the sale or use of products or services that incorporate the infringed intellectual property; •obtaining from the holder of the infringed intellectual property a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all; or •redesigning those products or services that incorporate the disputed intellectual property, which could result in substantial unanticipated development expenses and delay and prevent us from selling the products until the redesign is completed, if at all. If we are subject to a successful claim of infringement and we fail to develop non-infringing intellectual property or license the infringed intellectual property on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, we may be unable to sell some or all of our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could also result in significant expense and the diversion of technical and management attention. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our earnings could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management and other resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: •continuously improve our operational, financial and accounting systems; •train, manage and maintain good relations with our existing employee base in both our U.S. and international locations; •attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience; and •effectively manage accounts receivable and inventory. For example, our failure to effectively manage our inventory levels could result either in excess inventories, which could adversely affect our gross margins and operating results, or lead to an inability to fill customer orders, which would result in lower sales and could harm our relationships with existing and potential customers. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners and other third parties, such as our foundries and process and assembly vendors. Moreover, future growth could significantly overburden our management and financial systems and other resources. We may not make adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion. In addition, our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations, and we may not be able to 32 Table of Contents expand quickly enough to capitalize on potential market opportunities. Our future operating results will also depend, in part, on our ability to expand sales and marketing, research and development, accounting, finance and administrative support. Our future tax rates could be higher than we anticipate and may harm our results of operations. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. The application of tax law is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty, and tax laws themselves are subject to change. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could result in a significant charge to our earnings. A number of other factors will also affect our future tax rate, and certain of these factors could increase our effective tax rate in future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. These factors include changes in non-deductible share-based compensation, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, changes in the proportion and geographic mix of our revenue or earnings, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in available tax credits and the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Our sales through distributors increase the complexity of our business and may reduce our ability to forecast revenues. During fiscal 2008 and 2009, approximately 33.2% and 42.0%, respectively, of our revenues came from sales through distributors. We expect that revenues from sales through distributors will continue to represent a significant proportion of our total revenues. Selling through distributors reduces our ability to accurately forecast sales and increases the complexity of our business, requiring us to, among other matters: •manage a more complex supply chain; •manage the level of inventory at each distributor; •provide for credits, return rights and price protection; •estimate the impact of credits, return rights, price protection and unsold inventory at distributors; and •monitor the financial condition and creditworthiness of our distributors. Any failure to manage these challenges could cause us to inaccurately forecast sales and carry excess or insufficient inventory, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. We face foreign business, political and economic risks, because a majority of our products and those of our customers are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. We face difficulties in managing our third party foundries, color filter application service providers, packaging and other manufacturing service providers and our foreign distributors, most of whom are located in Asia. In addition, our presence in Asia presents the challenge of managing foreign operations and maintaining good relations with our employees located there. Any political and economic instability in Asia might have an adverse impact on foreign exchange rates and could cause service disruptions for our vendors and distributors and adversely affect our customers. Sales outside of the United States accounted for substantially all of our revenues for fiscal 2008 and 2009. We anticipate that sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a 33 Table of Contents substantial portion of our revenues in future periods. Dependence on sales to foreign customers involves certain risks, including: •longer payment cycles; •the adverse effects of tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions that impair trade; •decreased visibility as to future demand; •difficulties in accounts receivable collections; and •burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices. Sales of our products have to date been denominated principally in U.S. dollars. Over the last several years, the U.S. dollar has weakened against most other currencies. Future increases in the value of the U.S. dollar, if any, would increase the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which our customers are located. This may result in our customers seeking lower-priced suppliers, which could adversely impact our operating results. If a larger portion of our international revenues were to be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, we would be subject to increased risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, which has occurred from time to time, or the decision of one or more of these individuals to join a competitor, could adversely affect our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and certain other key technical personnel. None of our senior management is bound by an employment or non-competition agreement. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified sales, marketing, finance, management and technical personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our revenues, operations and product development efforts could be harmed. We recently substantially completed the implementation of the first phase of a new enterprise resource planning system, a process which presents a number of significant operational risks. As our business grows and becomes more complex, it is necessary that we expand and upgrade our enterprise resource planning system, or ERP, and other management information systems which are critical to the operational, accounting and financial functions of our company. We evaluated alternative solutions, both short-term and long-term, to meet the operating, administrative and financial reporting requirements of our business. During the three months ended July 31, 2008, we substantially completed the implementation of the first phase of a new ERP based on a suite of application software developed by Oracle Corporation. We will continue to make further enhancements and upgrades to the ERP, as necessary. Significant management attention and resources have been used and extensive planning has occurred to support effective implementation of the new ERP system, however, such implementation carries certain risks, including the risk of significant design errors that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. We also made certain changes to our internal control over financial reporting during the three months ended July 31, 2008, which we believe are material. As a result, there is a risk that deficiencies may exist in the future and that they could constitute significant deficiencies, or, in the aggregate, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. 34 Table of Contents Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. Disasters and business interruptions such as earthquakes, water, fire, electrical failure, accidents and epidemics affecting our operating activities, major facilities, and employees' and customers' health could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In particular, our Asian operations and most of our third party service providers involved in the manufacturing of our products are located within relative close proximity. Therefore, any disaster that strikes within or close to that geographic area, such as the recent earthquake and flooding that occurred in China, could be extremely disruptive to our business and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We are currently developing and implementing a disaster recovery plan. Acts of war and terrorist acts may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Acts of war or terrorist acts, wherever they occur around the world, may cause damage or disruption to our business, employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition. In addition, as a company with significant operations and major distributors and customers located in Asia, we may be adversely impacted by heightened tensions and acts of war that occur in locations such as the Korean Peninsula, Taiwan and China. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, as well as our stockholders' rights plan, could prevent or delay a change in control of our company and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: •adjusting the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of preferred stock without stockholder approval; •providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; •requiring supermajority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; •limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and •prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent another company from acquiring or merging with us. Our board of directors adopted a preferred stock rights agreement in August 2001. Pursuant to the rights agreement, our board of directors declared a dividend of one right to purchase one one-thousandth share of our Series A Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding share of our common stock. The dividend was paid on September 28, 2001 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on that date. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred at an exercise price of $176.00, subject to adjustment. The exercise of the rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the 35 Table of Contents acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. The rights agreement could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Our stock has been and will likely continue to be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control that may prevent our stockholders from selling our common stock at a profit. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Since the beginning of fiscal 2002 through April 30, 2009, the closing sales price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $33.90 per share to a low of $1.26 per share. The closing sales price of our common stock on June 25, 2009 was $11.10 per share. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past, and the market prices of the securities of semiconductor companies have been especially volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, including the current global economic situation, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; •changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; •changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; •release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares of common stock or sales of additional shares of common stock; •sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of shares of our common stock by our directors, officers, employees or principal stockholders; •changes in market valuations of other technology companies; and •announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions. Due to these factors, the price of our stock may decline and investors may be unable to resell their shares of our stock for a profit. In addition, the stock market experiences extreme volatility that often is unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline regardless of our performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 