Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us. The SPHC and Bondex Chapter 11 proceedings involve various risks and uncertainties that could have a material effect on us. There are a number of issues and matters to be resolved in connection with the SPHC and Bondex Chapter 11 proceedings, including, among others, the following: • the ultimate asbestos liability of the filing entities; • the outcome of negotiations with a committee of asbestos personal injury claimants and the representative for unknown future asbestos claimants, as well as other participants in the Chapter 11 proceedings, concerning, among other things, the size and structure of a trust to satisfy the asbestos liability and the means for funding that trust; and • the Bankruptcy Court’s decisions relating to numerous substantive and procedural aspects of the Chapter 11 proceedings, including with regard to the length of time the existing preliminary injunction that prohibits derivative asbestos liability lawsuits and other actions from being brought against RPM International and other non-filing affiliates of the filing entities remains in effect, and estimation of the aggregate asbestos liability of the filing entities. The ability of the filing entities to successfully reorganize will depend, among other things, on their ability to both (i) reach an acceptable agreement with the asbestos claimants and the future claims representative that satisfies all applicable legal requirements and (ii) obtain the requisite court approvals for the proposed reorganization. We cannot ensure that these entities can successfully reorganize nor can we give any assurances as to the impact of any such reorganization on the financial condition, results of operations or future prospects of the filing entities and their subsidiary businesses. We are also unable to predict the timing of any of the foregoing matters or the Chapter 11 proceedings themselves. As a result of the Chapter 11 filing, the filing entities are precluded from paying dividends to shareholders and making payments on any pre-bankruptcy filing accounts or notes payable that are due and owing to any other entity within the RPM group of companies (the “Pre-Petition Intercompany Payables”) and other pre-petition creditors during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceedings, without the Bankruptcy Court’s approval. Moreover, no assurances can be given that any of the Pre-Petition Intercompany Payables will be paid or otherwise satisfied in connection with the confirmation of a SPHC plan of reorganization. As of May 30, 2010, the day prior to the Chapter 11 filing, SPHC and its subsidiaries had Pre-Petition Intercompany Payables of approximately $209.6 million and pre-petition intercompany receivables from other entities within the RPM group of companies (other than subsidiaries of SPHC) of approximately $87.3 million. 10 Table of Contents On May 20, 2013, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware issued an opinion estimating the current and future asbestos claims associated with Bondex and SPHC at approximately $1.17 billion. The estimation hearing represents one step in the legal process in helping to determine the amount of potential funding for a 524(g) asbestos trust. Bondex and SPHC firmly believe that the opinion substantially overstates the amount of their liability and is not supported by the facts or the law. The debtors have filed an appeal of the decision with the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and are seeking certification of the appeal directly to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. We have also separately filed an appeal. The asbestos claimants and the future claims representative have moved to dismiss the appeals, arguing that the estimation order is not a final, appealable order. Bondex, SPHC and we believe that the order is final and appealable, and that, even if it were not, the appeals should be treated as motions to appeal which should be granted. It is anticipated that the appeal process could take an additional two to three years. That time period could be shorter if the appeal is certified to and heard directly by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. We also expect that in the Chapter 11 proceedings, various claims may be asserted against RPM International, including allegations that we are liable for the asbestos-related liabilities of the filing entities. There is also a possibility that the bankruptcy court could lift the injunction precluding litigation of asbestos claims against us and permitting such claims against us in the tort system. Although we believe we have no responsibility for asbestos liabilities of the filing entities, we cannot assure you that the resolution of such claims, or the perception that RPM International may have a risk of exposure to liability for the asbestos-related liabilities of the filing entities, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our securities. We believe that the Bankruptcy Court’s estimation opinion, if not vacated on appeal, may increase the likelihood that claims may be asserted against RPM International alleging that we are liable for the asbestos-related liabilities of the filing entities. Moreover it is uncertain whether, and to what extent, we may contribute to an asbestos trust or whether any channeling injunction entered in connection with a plan of reorganization will extend to all non-filing affiliates of the filing entities, including RPM International. We also believe that the Bankruptcy Court’s estimation opinion, if not vacated on appeal, may make it more difficult to reach a negotiated arrangement concerning the terms of any 524(g) trust. Our operations have been adversely affected by global market and economic conditions. The late-2000s global recession had an adverse effect on our operating results. Both of our segments felt the impact of the global economic decline. Although we have seen our operations rebound since then, our operations could be adversely affected by global economic conditions if global markets were to decline in the future. The late-2000s recession resulted, and future economic declines may result, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collection of customer receivables. We also have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increased competitive pricing pressure. In addition, customer difficulties have resulted, and could result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and adjustments to our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable. Global economic and capital market conditions may cause our access to capital to be more difficult in the future and/or costs to secure such capital more expensive. We may need new or additional financing in the future to provide liquidity to conduct our operations, expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. Any sustained weakness in general economic conditions and/or U.S. or global capital markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. From time to time we have relied, and we may also rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives 11 Table of Contents or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and required pension contributions. We sponsor qualified defined benefit pension plans and various other nonqualified postretirement plans. The qualified defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future contribution requirements. A significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic pension costs and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant increase in our contribution requirements with respect to our qualified defined benefit pension plans could have an adverse impact on our cash flow. The results of our annual testing of goodwill and other intangible assets have required, and in the future may require that we incur non-cash impairment charges. As of May 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.6 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets. The Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) section 350 requires that goodwill be tested at least on an annual basis, or more frequently as impairment indicators arise, using either a qualitative assessment or a fair-value approach at the reporting unit level. We perform our annual required impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market values of the reporting units with which goodwill is associated, as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter. The evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process that takes into account both internal and external factors. Impairment assessment requires the use of significant judgment with regard to estimates and assumptions surrounding future results of operations and cash flows. For the fiscal years ended May 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our impairment testing did not result in any impairment loss. In the future, if global economic conditions were to decline significantly, or if our reporting units experienced significant declines in business, we may incur substantial non-cash goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges. The amount of any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our significant amount of indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our total debt levels increased to approximately $1.4 billion at May 31, 2013 from $1.1 billion at May 31, 2012, which compares with $1.2 billion in stockholders’ equity at May 31, 2013. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, stock repurchases or other general corporate requirements; • result in a downgrading of our credit rating, which would increase our borrowing costs, adversely affect our financial results, and make it more difficult for us to raise capital; • restrict our operational flexibility and reduce our ability to conduct certain transactions, since our credit facility contains certain restrictive financial and operating covenants; • limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, which would make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions; and • have a material adverse effect on our short-term liquidity if large debt maturities occur in close succession. Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials may negatively impact our financial results. We obtain the raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. Many of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these 12 Table of Contents materials are generally available on the open market and from a variety of producers. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. The costs of the raw materials we use are under generally upward pressure due to escalating energy and related feedstock costs, increased levels of global demand, improved levels of supplier pricing discipline and declines in the value of the U.S. dollar. If the prices of raw materials continue to increase and we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, we could experience reduced gross profit margins. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. The markets in which we operate are fragmented, and we do not face competition from any one company across all of our product lines. However, any significant increase in competition, as a result of the consolidation of competitors or otherwise, may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. Increased competition may also impair our ability to grow or to maintain our current levels of revenues and earnings. Companies that compete in our markets include Akzo Nobel, Ferro, H.B. Fuller, Masco, PPG, Sherwin-Williams and Valspar. Several of these companies are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could prevent the institution of price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending to maintain our market share, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on a number of large customers for a significant portion of our net sales and, therefore, significant declines in the level of purchases by any of these key customers could harm our business. Some of our operating companies, particularly in the consumer segment, face a substantial amount of customer concentration. Our key consumer segment customers include Ace Hardware, Cotter & Company, Do It Best, The Home Depot, Lowe’s, Menards, Orgill, Rona, Wal-Mart and W.W. Grainger. Sales to our ten largest consumer segment customers accounted for approximately 22%, 22% and 23% of our total net sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and 63%, 67% and 68%, respectively, of the consumer segment’s net sales for those same fiscal years. If we were to lose one or more of our key customers, or experience a delay or cancellation of a significant order, or incur a significant decrease in the level of purchases from any of our key customers, or experience difficulty in collecting amounts due from a key customer, our net revenues could decline and our operating results could be reduced materially. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and downward economic cycles may have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our customers, across both reportable segments, are in businesses and industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, construction activity, and other factors, including changes in consumer spending and preferences. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Downward economic cycles affecting the markets of our customers may reduce the sales of our products resulting in material reductions to our revenues and net earnings. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. Our family of products includes a number of well-known brand names that are used in a variety of industrial maintenance, consumer DIY and professional applications. We believe that continuing to maintain the strength of our brands is critical to increasing demand for our products and maintaining their widespread acceptance among our customers. The reputations of our branded products depend on numerous factors, including the successful advertising and marketing of our brand names, consumer acceptance, the availability of similar products from our competitors, and our ability to maintain our products’ quality and technological advantages. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. 13 Table of Contents Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our material trademarks and other proprietary information. We have numerous valuable patents, trade secrets and know-how, domain names, trademarks and trade names, including certain marks that are significant to our business, which are identified under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Despite our efforts to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, other parties, including our former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or marks without our authorization. Unauthorized use of our trademarks, or unauthorized use or disclosure of our other intellectual property, could negatively impact our business and financial condition. The chemical and construction products industries in which we operate expose us to inherent risks of legal and warranty claims and other litigation-related costs, which could adversely impact our business. As a participant in the chemical and construction products industries, we face an inherent risk of exposure to legal claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Many of our industrial segment products are used in industrial, commercial or institutional building construction projects. In some instances, our companies offer extended term warranties and as a result, from time to time we may experience higher levels of warranty expense, which is typically reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to unforeseen future expenditures or liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., Canada and other foreign countries where we conduct business. Governmental and regulatory authorities impose various laws and regulations on us that relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes, the use of certain chemicals in product formulations, and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, TSCA, and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. In addition, these laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and third party disposal sites. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of facilities and properties and have received notices under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or analogous state laws of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our current or former operations. Further, we also could be subject to future liability resulting from conditions that are currently unknown to us that could be discovered in the future. The environmental laws under which we operate are numerous, complicated and often increasingly stringent, and may be applied retroactively. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in full compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which we conduct our business. In addition, if we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We also could be liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances relating to our products or operations. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to make additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our businesses are subject to extensive environmental and safety laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Our businesses are dependent on the issuance of operating permits and registrations required from government agencies. In connection with the performance of certain activities, our businesses are required to seek permission 14 Table of Contents from agencies in the states, provinces, and countries in which they operate. If regulatory permits or registrations are delayed, restricted, or rejected, subsequent operations at our businesses could be delayed or restricted. Any regulatory agency could reject or delay the review of any of our business filings. Delays in obtaining necessary permits and registrations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines and penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations, remedial or corrective measures, installations of pollution control equipment, or other actions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our efforts in acquiring and integrating other companies or product lines or establishing joint ventures fail, our business may not grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and creating joint ventures. Our ability to continue to grow in this manner depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. In addition, acquisitions and their subsequent integration involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • inaccurate assessments of disclosed liabilities and the potentially adverse effects of undisclosed liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, their products, and their culture into our existing business; • unforeseen delays in realizing the benefits from acquired companies or product lines, including projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and profit margins; • unforeseen diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business matters; • unforeseen difficulties resulting from insufficient prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • unforeseen difficulties in retaining key employees and customers of acquired businesses; and • increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could in turn restrict our ability to raise additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy. Execution of our acquisition strategy with respect to some companies or product lines could fail or could result in unanticipated costs to us that were not apparent despite our due diligence efforts, either of which could hinder our growth or adversely impact our results of operations. Our credit facility contains restrictions on certain mergers and asset dispositions. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our foreign manufacturing operations accounted for approximately 41% of our net trade sales for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2013, not including exports directly from the U.S. which accounted for approximately 2% of our net trade sales for fiscal 2013. Our international operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, inflation rates, trade protection measures, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, changing intellectual property rights, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in material volatility in our costs and earnings and may also adversely affect the carrying values of our assets located outside the U.S. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (‘‘FCPA’’) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to governmental officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain 15 Table of Contents circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Although we have internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our operations are subject to the effect of global tax law changes, some of which have been, and may be in the future, retroactive in application. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign tax laws and regulations which govern, among other things, taxes on worldwide income. Any potential tax law changes may, for example, increase applicable tax rates, have retroactive application, or impose stricter compliance requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which could reduce our consolidated net earnings. In that regard, in June 2013, Canada Bill C-48, Technical Tax Amendments Act, 2012, received Royal Assent. The legislation includes, among other items, a number of amendments which are effective on both a retroactive and prospective basis. We are in the process of analyzing the overall impact of the legislation. However, our initial estimate of the incremental Canadian income tax expense for the retroactive period due to this law change is in the range of $10.0 million to $14.0 million. In response to, for instance, the recent economic crisis and the recent recession, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could, for example, reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate could increase, our profits could be reduced, and if such increases were a result of our status as a U.S. company, could place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. Further, legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately enacted, could subject us to increased taxes which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of any specific legislative, regulatory or other tax proposals or changes. We could be adversely affected by failure to comply with federal, state and local government procurement regulations and requirements. We have contracts with federal, state and local governmental entities, and are required to comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements relating to those contracts. These requirements, although customary in government contracts, impact our performance and compliance costs. Failure to comply with procurement regulations and requirements could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, and the assessment of penalties and fines, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to comply with these regulations and requirements could also lead to suspension or debarment, for cause, from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Terrorist activities and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters and other disruptions have negatively impacted in the past and could negatively impact in the future the U.S. and foreign countries, the financial markets, the industries in which we compete, our operations and profitability. Terrorist activities and natural disasters have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence, war or natural disasters could affect the industries in which we compete, our ability to purchase raw materials, our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, terrorist activities and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, which could impact our sales, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. 16 Table of Contents Disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have insurance, it may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Although we maintain insurance of various types to cover many of the risks and hazards that apply to our operations, our insurance may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales. From time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the U.S. and other countries in which we do business have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. For example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the general construction and exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. As a result, we have historically experienced weaker sales and net income in our third fiscal quarter (December through February) in comparison to our performance during our other fiscal quarters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 