Risk Factors Risks relating to countries in which Naspers and its joint ventures operate Naspers’ multinational operations expose it to a variety of economic, social and political risks There is an element of risk in all countries in which Naspers operates. Naspers may be affected by political, social and economic changes in countries where the group has operations. The incidence of HIV/AIDS infection in a number of markets in which Naspers operates is high and may increase. Those at risk may include both Naspers’ employees, giving rise to increased sickness and disability costs, and its customers, resulting in a reduction in sales and an inability to grow Naspers’ revenue base. A majority of Naspers’ revenue comes from its operations in South Africa. There has been a period of significant change in South Africa since the democratic government came to power in 1994. The Government continues to introduce policies designed to alleviate or redress inequalities suffered by the majority of citizens under the previous government. It is not possible to predict to what extent the government will continue introducing legislation or other measures designed to empower previously disadvantaged groups nor can it assess the potential impact of these reforms. MultiChoice South Africa and Media24 are preparing for broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) share schemes, aligned to the BEE legislation and the draft codes of good practice applicable to South Africa. These codes are not final yet and, although work has started in the South African companies of the Naspers Group to ensure compliance with these draft codes, Naspers can only assess its compliance once the codes are final. Many emerging market countries have experienced high levels of unemployment and crime in recent years. These problems have impeded inward investment into these countries and have prompted some emigration of skilled workers. As a result, attracting and retaining suitably qualified employees in these countries may be difficult. Against the background of political tensions and the current transition to stable democratic governments, it is not possible to predict the future economic or political direction of these countries. Matters that may affect emerging market countries’ future economic and political direction include whether their governments can address the various political, social and economic challenges and the effect of the continuing integration of these economies both regionally and with the economies of the rest of the world. Naspers operates in emerging economies, including many African countries, China, Brazil and more recently India and Russia. Naspers’ operations in these markets may involve economic and operating risks. Many countries in emerging markets have in the past experienced difficulties resulting from currency fluctuations, high interest rates, increases in corporate bankruptcies, stock market declines, terrorist attacks, threats and ransom, epidemics and other factors that may materially and adversely affect Naspers’ business. Although governments in many of these countries have taken steps toward addressing these problems, it is not possible to predict whether or to what extent these steps will succeed in achieving their objectives. South Africa’s economy has recently experienced periods of moderate growth and inflation and high unemployment but growth could slow and inflation could increase The South African economy has recently been growing at a moderate rate, and inflation has been relatively low. The growth in South Africa’s GDP was 2.8% for 2003, 3.7% for 2004 and 4.9% for 2005. South Africa’s unemployment rate was 26.7% in September 2005. The depreciation in value of the Rand against the U.S. dollar during the latter part of 2001 put upward pressure on South Africa’s inflation rate (CPIX) during the 2002 calendar year, peaking at 11.3%. Since 2003, the inflation rate 6 decreased as the Rand appreciated in value against the U.S. dollar. The South African Reserve Bank has stated that it targets South Africa’s inflation rate at between 3% and 6% per year. Despite such intentions, there can be no assurance that these inflation targets will be met. A future increase in inflation would increase financing and other costs in a manner that could adversely affect Naspers’ profitability. South African exchange control restrictions could hinder Naspers’ normal corporate functioning South Africa’s exchange control regulations provide for a common monetary area consisting of South Africa, the Kingdom of Lesotho, the Kingdom of Swaziland and the Republic of Namibia. Exchange controls may continue to operate in South Africa for the foreseeable future. As a consequence of these exchange controls, an acquisition of shares or assets of a South African company by a non-resident purchaser will require exchange control approval if the payment for the acquisition is in the form of shares of a non-resident company or if the acquisition is financed by a loan from a South African resident. Denial of any required regulatory approval may result in the acquisition not occurring. South Africa’s interest rates may increase Naspers’ borrowing costs The volatility of the Rand in the past has impacted the inflation rate in South Africa, causing the South African Reserve Bank to respond by using interest rates to manage inflation. The depreciation of the Rand has therefore resulted in interest rates being higher in South Africa than in most developed countries. The prime lending rate (the benchmark rate used by South African banks to determine lending rates for their customers) reached a high of 25.5% in 1998. The prime lending rate of 10.5% on September 15, 2005 was at its lowest level over the past 20 years, mainly due to the strengthening of the Rand against most major currencies over the past three years. The prime lending rate as at September 15, 2006 was 11.5%. An increase in interest rates in South Africa would increase Naspers’ cost of borrowings and hence the cost of capital. Naspers could suffer losses as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates Naspers’ reporting currency is the Rand. Naspers will continue to conduct business transactions in currencies other than its reporting currency. Approximately 23.6% of Naspers’ revenue was generated outside South Africa during fiscal 2006. Naspers is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures primarily with respect to the U.S. dollar, the Naira, the Renminbi, the Euro and the Brazilian Real against the Rand, which have in the past affected and could in the future affect Naspers’ revenues, financing costs and general business and financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate of these currencies could affect the comparability of Naspers’ performance between financial periods, since a portion of Naspers’ sales are in currencies other than Rand while Naspers’ financial statements are stated in Rand. A significant portion of Naspers’ cash obligations, including payment obligations under satellite transponder leases and contracts for pay-television programming and channels, are denominated in the currencies of countries in which Naspers has limited operations, such as U.S. dollars. Where Naspers’ revenue is denominated in local currency, a depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar adversely affects Naspers’ earnings and Naspers’ ability to meet its cash obligations. Many of Naspers’ operations are in countries or regions where there has been depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar in recent years. Naspers cannot provide assurances that the hedge transactions that Naspers enters into to mitigate currency risk will fully protect it against currency fluctuations or that Naspers will be able to hedge effectively against these risks in the future. Naspers can in most instances only hedge its foreign currency exposures for a limited period, therefore Naspers can not hedge 100% of its exposure. The Rand, the Renminbi, the Naira and the Brazilian Real have at times in the past depreciated against the currencies of their major trading partners by more than the inflation rate differential between South Africa, China, Nigeria and Brazil and their major trading partners. Historically, the performance of the Rand against other currencies has been characterized by periods of rapid depreciation followed by periods of stability. In particular, the Rand rapidly depreciated against the U.S. dollar and other major currencies during the latter part of 2001. The value of the Rand against the U.S. dollar remains difficult to predict and vulnerable to depreciation. Since December 2001, the Rand has appreciated against the U.S. dollar, ending fiscal 2006 at Rand 6.15. The Rand depreciated after March 31, 2006 to Rand 7.38 on September 15, 2006. Any strengthening of the Rand will have a negative impact on the U.S. dollar based earnings of the group, but a positive impact on its dollar based expenses. Collectively, a strengthening of the Rand against the U.S. dollar has a positive net profit impact on Naspers. Naspers cannot predict the future relative strength of the Rand, Renminbi, Naira or Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar and expects that these currencies will remain volatile against major currencies like the U.S. dollar and the Euro. 7 In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rand and the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the market value of Naspers American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) in the United States and the real value of dividends paid on Naspers’ ADSs. The activity of trade unions could adversely affect Naspers’ business As of March 31, 2006, trade unions represented some of Naspers’ employees. In the past, trade unions have had influence as vehicles for social, economic and political reform and in the collective bargaining process. The cost of complying with labor laws may adversely affect Naspers’ operations. The risks and associated costs with labor strikes are difficult to manage and predict. Because Naspers is a South African company, you may not be able to enforce judgments against Naspers and its directors and officers that are obtained in U.S. courts Naspers is incorporated in South Africa. Most of Naspers’ directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Substantially all the assets of Naspers, its directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon Naspers or its directors or executive officers, or to enforce against such persons judgments of the United States courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the Federal securities laws or other laws of the United States or any of its states. Although foreign judgments are recognized by South African courts, they are generally not directly enforceable in South Africa and can only be enforced by way of execution of an order to that effect made by a competent South African court, the latter court basing its order upon the judgment of the foreign court. The policy of South African courts is to award compensation only for loss or damage actually sustained by the person claiming the compensation. The award of punitive damages is generally not recognized by the South African legal system, on the grounds that such awards are contrary to public policy. Whether a judgment is contrary to public policy depends on the facts of each case. Exorbitant, unconscionable or excessive awards will generally be contrary to South African public policy. South African courts cannot consider the merits of a foreign judgment and cannot act as a court of appeal or review over the foreign court. South African courts will usually observe their own procedural laws and, where an action based on a contract governed by a foreign law is brought before a South African court, the capacity of the parties to contract may under certain circumstances be determined in accordance with South African law. A plaintiff who is not resident in South Africa may be required to provide security for costs where proceedings are initiated in South Africa. In addition, the Rules of the High Court of South Africa require that documents executed outside South Africa must be authenticated by way of the apostille procedure in terms of the Hague Convention 1961 before they are used in South Africa. Also, foreign judgments concerning the ownership, use or sale of any matter or material connected with South African commerce (such as production, import and export) require consent from the South African Minister of Trade and Industry to be enforced in accordance with the South African Protection of Business Act, 1978. Naspers has been advised by Webber Wentzel Bowens, its South African counsel, that there is doubt as to the enforceability against Naspers and its directors and officers in South Africa of liabilities predicated solely upon the Federal securities laws of the United States. Risks relating to Naspers’ business Naspers’ level of debt could adversely affect its business and competitive position Naspers has an amount of debt that may adversely affect its business in numerous ways. As of March 31, 2006, Naspers had total debt (including finance leases and debt in respect of program and film broadcasting rights) of approximately Rand 4.42 billion, or U.S. $598.9 million. On the same basis, Naspers’ ratio of total debt to equity would have equaled 0.61. Naspers’ debt could, among other things: · increase its vulnerability to adverse economic conditions or increases in prevailing interest rates, particularly where borrowings are or will be made at variable interest rates; · limit its ability to obtain additional financing that may be necessary to operate, develop or expand its business; · require Naspers to dedicate a portion of its cash flow from operations to service its debt, which in turn reduces the funds available for operations, future business opportunities and dividends; and 8 · potentially place Naspers at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors with less debt. Naspers’ ability to make payments on its debt will depend upon its future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions, many of which are outside Naspers’ control. If the cash flow from Naspers’ business and its operating subsidiaries is insufficient to make payments on its debt or is otherwise unavailable, Naspers may have to delay or reduce capital expenditures, attempt to restructure or refinance its debt, sell assets or raise additional equity capital. Naspers may not be able to take these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The sale of additional shares, or the possibility of such a sale, may adversely affect the price of our outstanding shares, including the Class N Shares. Naspers depends on access to cash flows from its subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures, and limitations on accessing the cash flow may adversely affect Naspers’ business operations and financial condition Naspers Limited has no significant business operations or assets other than its interests in its subsidiaries, associated companies, joint ventures and other investments. Accordingly, Naspers relies upon distributions from its subsidiaries, associated companies, joint ventures and other investments to generate the funds necessary to meet the obligations and other cash flow requirements of the combined group. Naspers’ subsidiaries, associated companies, and joint ventures are separate and distinct legal entities that have no obligation to make any funds available to Naspers, whether by intercompany loans or by the payment of dividends. The ability of Naspers to utilize the cash flows from some of its subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures is subject, in South Africa, China, Brazil and other countries, to foreign investment and exchange control laws and also to the availability of a sufficient quantity of foreign exchange. In particular, substantially all the cash flow generated by Naspers’ South African businesses cannot be currently utilized outside South Africa without exchange control approval. Naspers’ non-South African subsidiaries may be subject to similar restrictions imposed by their respective home countries. In addition, because the consent of some of Naspers’ joint venture partners is required for distributions from Naspers’ joint ventures, Naspers’ ability to receive distributions from the joint ventures is dependent on the co-operation of its joint venture partners. The interests of the minority shareholders of some of Naspers’ subsidiaries and associates must be considered when those subsidiaries and associates make distributions. Accordingly, Naspers may not be able to obtain cash from its subsidiaries, associated companies, joint ventures and other investments at the times and in the amounts required by Naspers. Any failure by Naspers to receive distributions from its businesses could restrict Naspers’ ability to provide adequate funding to the combined group and otherwise meet its obligations. Naspers’ business units may face funding and liquidity difficulties under the terms of the financing arrangements upon which they depend. Each Naspers business relies on its own separate credit facility and financing, to the extent necessary. Naspers has not to date provided any parent company guarantees in respect of bank borrowings. Several of the credit facilities and other financing arrangements contain financial covenants and other similar undertakings and requirements. If these covenants, undertakings or requirements are violated, the financing may not be available and the relevant business unit could face liquidity difficulties. In addition, many of the different group credit facilities must be renewed annually by the relevant lenders. Naspers has only limited influence over its minority investments and the value of Naspers stake in such investments could decrease Naspers holds minority stakes in a number of companies, including a 36.1% interest in Tencent Holdings Limited (“Tencent”) and a 30% interest in Abril S.A. Although Naspers exercises influence with respect to certain of the affairs of these and other companies in which it holds a minority stake, Naspers’ minority voting position has and may continue to have several important consequences for Naspers, including precluding us from controlling the businesses, limiting our ability to implement strategies we favor and allowing the business to adopt strategies and take actions which may in some cases be contrary to our preferred strategies and actions. As with many minority investments, differences in views among the principal shareholders may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint venture and in turn Naspers business and operations. The acquisitions and investments that Naspers has made and may make in the future may not be successful and may create unanticipated problems Naspers has experienced growth and development through successful acquisitions and investments in the past and intends to continue to pursue acquisitions in order to meet its strategic objectives. Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses is a complex process. Naspers may not be able to integrate the operations of its acquired businesses with its operations rapidly or without encountering difficulties. The diversion of the attention of management to the integration effort and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could adversely affect Naspers’ business and operations. In addition, although Naspers has grown through successful acquisitions in the past, no assurance can be given that it will be able to identify, acquire and 9 successfully integrate additional companies in the future. Future acquisitions Naspers does undertake could result in potentially dilutive issuances of additional equity and the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Naspers’ businesses operate in highly competitive and rapidly changing industries and increased competition could adversely affect Naspers’ results of operations and financial condition Pay-television. Although Naspers is currently the leading provider of pay-television services in most of its markets, Naspers competes directly with both state owned and private national free-to-air broadcast networks and regional and local broadcast stations for audience share, programming and advertising revenue and indirectly with motion picture theatres, video rental stores, mobile telephones, lotteries, gaming and other entertainment and leisure activities for general leisure spending. Naspers cannot determine the nature or extent of future competition it may face in the pay-television market. In South Africa licenses will be granted in the future to other operators. In Sub-Saharan Africa and Cyprus various competitors have entered the pay-television market. The entry of additional competitors into any of the pay-television markets where Naspers operates remains a continuous possibility. In addition, the sale of DVDs, ADSL broadband, mobile and wireless technologies providing digital pay-television content may erode Naspers’ pay-television subscriber base. Internet. The market for internet access, communication, portal and related services is highly competitive. Naspers anticipates that competition will continue to intensify as the use of the internet grows. The African and Asian internet markets are characterized by an increasing number of entrants. Naspers’ competitors will compete in these markets. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and personnel resources and better recognized brand names than Naspers. Some of Naspers’ internet businesses may therefore never reach profitability. Newspapers, Magazines and Printing. Revenues in the print media industry are dependent primarily upon paid circulation, advertising and printing revenues. Competition for circulation and advertising revenue comes from local, regional and national newspapers, magazines, radio, television, direct mail and other communications and advertising media that operate in the same markets. In addition, the rapid development of online internet advertising could have a negative impact on print media advertising. The extent and nature of such competition is, in large part, determined by the location and demographics of the markets and the number of media alternatives available in these markets. Naspers may face increased competition as both local and international publishers introduce new niche titles. Internationally recognized titles also continue to be introduced in South Africa. Many of the print media markets are overpopulated, with too many titles relative to the size of the readership base. Competitors that are active in the same markets as Naspers attempt to increase their market share, circulation and advertising revenues by changing the style and layout of their publications to win new customers at the expense of Naspers’ magazines and newspapers and by launching new titles. In addition, Naspers’ competitors may reduce the cover prices of their publications to increase their circulation. Naspers may be forced to decrease the prices it charges for magazines and newspapers in response or make other changes in the way it operates. Naspers’ business and results of operations may be harmed as a result. Other businesses. The markets for the products and services currently offered by Irdeto, Naspers’ conditional access technology business, Entriq, Mediazone and Naspers’ book publishing and education businesses are highly competitive. All these businesses operate in fragmented markets and some compete with large international players. Irdeto competes with numerous entities, including subsidiaries of other pay-television providers, many of which have greater financial resources than Naspers. Entriq and Mediazone compete with a variety of players. Via Afrika Limited (“Via Afrika”), the book publishing subsidiary of Media24 Limited (“Media24”), faces competition from several South African publishers as well as large international publishing houses, which have substantially greater resources and strong brand names. Educor Holdings Limited (“Educor”), the private education subsidiary of Media24, faces competition from many different South African public universities and private educators, as well as from international educators, many of whom have substantially greater resources and better recognized brand names than Educor. MultiChoice South Africa has applied for a broadcast license and the level of competition emanating from the license application process has increased The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA) issued its invitation to apply for satellite and cable licenses on January 31, 2006 and indicated that it expected to license new operators by mid 2007. The closing date for applications was July 31, 2006 which date was later extended to August 31, 2006. MultiChoice Africa (Proprietary) Limited (“MultiChoice”) submitted its application for a subscription broadcasting license on 31 August 2006. ICASA has received a number of applications including applications from traditional telecommunications operators and existing broadcasters, as well as potential new entrants. 10 Steady or declining subscriber levels may prevent further growth of some of or all of Naspers’ businesses Naspers’ largest businesses are generally in mature markets and may face difficulties in maintaining or growing the number of subscribers. Naspers’ pay-television business in Greece has in the past experienced high levels of annual subscriber churn. High levels of churn and decreasing or flat subscriber numbers may be caused by competition from new entrants to the pay-television market and from other sources competing for discretionary income, economic and other local difficulties, the loss of popular sports and movie programming content and seasonality associated with the markets in which Naspers operates. Increases in prices can also lead to churn and subscriber terminations. Declining subscriber levels also adversely affect Irdeto, because Naspers’ pay-television operators constitute some of Irdeto’s primary customers. Naspers’ print media business has experienced declining circulation of some of its more established publications due to the maturity of some of its magazine titles and newspapers in South Africa and the introduction into the market of a large number of competing magazines and newspapers. Steady or declining subscriber levels make it difficult for Naspers to grow its businesses. A reduction in demand for advertising may adversely affect Naspers’ businesses and revenues A large portion of Naspers’ revenue is generated by advertising revenues. Advertising revenues are cyclical and are dependent upon general economic conditions. Traditionally, spending by companies on advertising and other marketing activities, and hence Naspers’ advertising and commercial printing revenue, decreases significantly in times of economic slowdown or recession. In particular, Naspers’ advertising revenues are subject to risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending. Consumer confidence and spending may decline as a result of numerous factors outside of Naspers’ control, such as terrorist attacks or acts of war. Global economic downturns and declining levels of business activity of Naspers’ advertisers have in the past and could in the future adversely affect Naspers’ results of operations. Newspaper and magazine advertising may decline relative to television, radio and outdoor advertising. Such trends would adversely affect Naspers’ results and financial condition. Increases in newsprint and magazine paper costs could adversely affect Naspers’ results Newsprint and magazine paper costs represent the single largest raw material expense for Naspers’ print media businesses and are among Naspers’ most significant operating costs. Newsprint and magazine paper costs fluctuate from time to time due to numerous factors beyond Naspers’ control, especially due to demand and supply forces, and exchange rate fluctuations between the Rand and other currencies such as the U.S. dollar and the Euro. An increase in newsprint and magazine paper costs will adversely affect Naspers’ earnings and cash flow. Naspers’ business environment is subject to rapid technological change which could render Naspers’ products and services obsolete Naspers operates pay-television and technology businesses through its holding in MIH Holdings Limited (“MIH Holdings”) and internet businesses through Media24 and its holding in MIH Holdings. The rate of technological change currently affecting the pay-television and internet industries is rapid compared to other industries. Trends, such as the migration of television from analog to digital transmission and the convergence of television, the internet, mobile telephones and other media, are creating an unpredictable environment. New technologies or industry standards have the potential to replace or provide lower-cost alternatives to products and services sold by Naspers. Naspers’ print media, publishing and education businesses also operate in markets that continue to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. In particular, the means of delivering Naspers’ products, and the products themselves, may be subject to rapid technological change. Naspers cannot predict whether technological innovations will, in the future, make some of its products and services wholly or partially obsolete or adversely affect the competitiveness of its businesses. Naspers may be required to continue to invest significant resources to further adapt to changing technologies, markets and competitive environments. Naspers’ substantial investment in internet related business may not produce positive returns A part of Naspers’ strategy is to further develop its internet businesses. Naspers has invested, and will continue to invest, significant amounts to develop and promote its internet initiatives and electronic platforms. Naspers has made these investments through Media24 and through its shareholding in MIH Holdings. The provision of products and services over the internet and otherwise in electronic form is highly competitive and is in relatively early stages of development. 11 Naspers may experience difficulties developing this aspect of its business due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond Naspers’ control. These factors may include: · the extent of acceptance of Naspers’ internet initiatives and related electronic platforms by customers; · competition from comparable and new technologies; · government regulation and control of the content and medium; · customers not accepting or not continuing to use the internet and electronic media; and · failures or difficulties with the data networks and infrastructures upon which Naspers depends. Moreover, Naspers relies on third parties for the provision of local and international bandwidth. Naspers’ long-term success depends on the continued development of the internet as a commercial medium. As a result of rapidly changing technology, developing industry standards and frequent new product and service introductions, demand and market acceptance for recently introduced products and services on the internet are subject to uncertainty. Critical issues concerning the commercial use of the internet, including the perceived lack of security of commercial data, such as credit card numbers, and capacity constraints resulting in delays, transmission errors and other difficulties may impact the growth of internet use. These and other issues affecting the internet industry may be aggravated in countries with less developed internet cultures and infrastructures in which Naspers currently conducts or may in the future conduct its internet business, including South Africa, Thailand, China and Brazil. If the market for internet access services develops more slowly than expected or becomes saturated with competitors, or if the internet access and services offered by Naspers are not broadly accepted, Naspers’ growth strategy could be adversely affected. Naspers’ business interests in China are dependent upon indirect relationships with third parties and mobile operators which are subject to various operational and competitive risks Companies in which MIH Holdings has invested, including Tencent, provide internet, mobile and telecommunications value-added services to subscribers in China through a series of contracts with companies, which are licensed to operate these services. MIH Holdings, however, does not hold any direct or indirect equity interests in the licensed operating companies and instead relies on a series of contracts in order to recognize and receive the economic benefit of the business and operations of these companies. As a result, MIH Holdings may not be able to fully recognize and receive the economic benefits of the China business and operations and may not be able to effectively control the China operations. The revenue generated by services provided over mobile telephone networks or fixed line networks are principally recognized and received under contracts with Chinese mobile telephony and network operators. If these operators commit errors in recording revenue or fail to pay fees due to service providers, or if existing contracts are not renewed or less favorable terms are imposed, the financial condition, results of operations and profitability of the companies in which MIH Holdings has invested would be adversely affected. Also, if the business conditions of the mobile telephony operators deteriorate or if these mobile operators impose penalties or restraints on service providers, the business operations and financial condition of the companies in which MIH Holdings has invested may be materially and adversely affected. The Chinese mobile telecommunications markets are highly competitive, rapidly developing and subject to economic, regulatory and other uncertainties. The size of the future customer base and user activity will be affected by a number of factors, many of which are outside of Naspers’ control, such as the regulatory regime governing the provision of telecommunication services in China and the general economic conditions in the region. Naspers’ businesses rely on software and hardware systems that are susceptible to failure Interruptions to the availability of Naspers’ internet services or increases in the response times of Naspers’ services caused by the failure of Naspers’ software or hardware systems could reduce user satisfaction, the amount of internet traffic and Naspers’ attractiveness to advertisers and consumers. Naspers’ publishing business also depends upon the timely functioning of software and hardware used to print newspapers and magazines and to publish books. Naspers is also dependent upon web browsers, telecommunication systems and other aspects of the internet infrastructure that have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past. Naspers’ operations are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, 12 telecommunications failures, break-ins, industrial actions and similar events. Despite Naspers implementing network security measures, Naspers’ servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with its computer systems. Naspers’ business may suffer if it cannot obtain attractive programming or if the cost of television receivers increases The continued success of Naspers’ pay-television business depends upon its ability to continue to obtain attractive film, sports and other programming on commercially reasonable terms. For most of the programming, Naspers contracts with suppliers who in turn purchase programming from content providers. Much of Naspers’ premium programming is sourced through Electronic Media Network Limited (“M-Net”) and SuperSport International Holdings Limited (“SuperSport”). Naspers’ film studio and sport programming contracts are up for renewal from time to time. In the event the supply contracts or underlying programming arrangements are not renewed or are cancelled, Naspers will be required to seek alternative programming from other sources. Naspers cannot be sure whether alternative programming would be available on commercially reasonable terms or whether the alternative programming would appeal to Naspers’ subscribers. Naspers’ business strategy also depends on its ability to offer attractive programming on an exclusive basis. Political, regulatory and competitive pressures may make it more difficult to maintain exclusive rights to programming. Naspers’ growth depends in part upon its ability to attract new pay-television customers. Many new customers are required to purchase the equipment necessary to receive Naspers’ broadcasts. The cost of this equipment may discourage potential subscribers, and Naspers’ market penetration and growth may be impeded if the cost of this equipment increases. Satellite failures could adversely affect Naspers’ business and ability to grow Naspers’ digital programming is transmitted to its customers through different satellites around the world, and in some regions Naspers’ terrestrial analog signal is also transmitted to regional broadcast points through satellites. In addition, Naspers receives a significant amount of its programming through satellites. Satellites are subject to significant risks such as defects, launch failure, incorrect orbital placement and destruction and damage that may prevent or impair proper commercial operations. All satellites have limited useful lives, which vary as a result of their construction, the durability of their components, the capability of their solar arrays and batteries, the amount of fuel remaining once in orbit, the launch vehicle used and the accuracy of the launch. The operation of satellites is beyond Naspers’ control. Future launch failures or disruption of the transmissions of satellites that are already operational could adversely affect Naspers’ operations. Some satellites used by Naspers’ pay-television operations have experienced technical failures in the past. In addition, Naspers’ ability to transmit its programming following the end of the expected useful lives of the satellites Naspers currently uses and to broadcast additional channels in the future will depend upon Naspers’ ability to obtain rights to utilize transponders on other satellites. In the event of a satellite failure, Naspers would need to make alternative arrangements for transponder capacity. Naspers may not be able to obtain alternative capacity rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In the event that Naspers has to obtain alternative transponder capacity, it may need customers to realign their satellite dishes to receive the broadcasting signals, which could prove impractical and very expensive to implement. Naspers’ business may suffer if its printing equipment or facilities are damaged or fail to perform Some of Naspers’ newspapers, magazines and educational textbooks, and a number of third party publications, are printed on printing equipment and facilities owned by the group. If printing facilities were damaged or if operations were interrupted due to a natural disaster or otherwise, the publication of some titles or textbooks could be interrupted and Naspers’ operating results could be adversely affected. In the event of such damage or destruction, Naspers would need to make alternative arrangements for printing to be outsourced. Naspers may not be able to obtain alternative printing services on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Unauthorized access to Naspers’ programming signals may adversely affect Naspers’ revenues and programming arrangements Naspers faces the risk that its programming signals will be accessed by unauthorized users. The delivery of subscription programming requires the use of encryption technology to prevent unauthorized access to programming, or “piracy”. Naspers currently utilizes encryption technology supplied by Irdeto. This encryption technology, to remain effective in preventing unauthorized access, needs to continually be updated or replaced with newer technology. Naspers will continue to incur substantial expenditures to replace or upgrade its encryption technology in the future. Encryption technology cannot completely prevent all piracy, and virtually all pay-television markets are characterized by varying degrees of piracy that manifest themselves in different 13 ways. In addition, encryption technology cannot completely prevent the illegal retransmission or sharing of a television signal once it has been decrypted. If Naspers fails to adequately prevent unauthorized access to its transmissions, its ability to contract for programming services could be adversely affected and in any event it will lose subscribers who can then receive pirated signals. Government regulations may adversely affect Naspers’ ability to conduct its businesses and generate operating profits All media operations are subject to governmental regulation in the countries in which Naspers operates. Governmental regulation can take the form of price controls, service requirements, programming content restrictions, ownership restrictions, licensing requirements and restrictions on the amount of fees paid for advertising. Failure or delays in obtaining or renewing any necessary regulatory approvals could adversely affect Naspers’ ability to offer some of or all its services. In most of the countries in which Naspers conducts its pay-television businesses, it operates under licenses obtained from governmental or quasi governmental agencies. These licenses are subject to periodic renewal, and Naspers may not be able to renew the licenses on terms as favorable as the existing licenses or at all. Adverse changes in the regulatory framework of any country in which Naspers operates may occur in the short or long term. The media and competition regulatory frameworks everywhere are subject to change, and the relevant regulatory authorities may increase their regulation of Naspers’ businesses in these countries. Naspers cannot predict the likely impact that any such action by applicable competition and regulatory authorities could have on the operation of its businesses. In addition, there are several legislative proposals and other initiatives underway in some markets that could materially impact how Naspers conducts its business. Failure to maintain Naspers’ relationships with its partners, suppliers and local governments could disrupt Naspers’ businesses Many of Naspers’ operations have been developed in cooperation or partnership with key parties. With regard to these operations, Naspers is dependent on its partners to provide knowledge of local market conditions and to facilitate the acquisition of any necessary licenses and permits. Any failure by Naspers to form alliances with such partners, or the disruption of existing alliances, could adversely affect Naspers’ ability to penetrate and compete successfully in many important markets. Naspers’ businesses are dependent on their relationships with international suppliers, including major film studios and book publishers. Some of Naspers’ businesses may also be vulnerable to local governmental or quasi governmental entities or other third parties who wish to renegotiate the terms and conditions of their agreements or other understandings with Naspers or who wish to terminate these agreements or understandings. Adverse developments with respect to Naspers’ relationships with its partners or with local governmental or quasi governmental entities could adversely affect Naspers’ business strategy and results of operations in important markets. Such developments could also lead to the introduction of additional taxes. Consolidation in the markets in which Naspers operates could place it at a competitive disadvantage Some of the markets in which Naspers operates have experienced consolidation. In particular, the combinations of traditional media content companies and new media distribution companies have resulted in new valuation methods, business models and strategies. Naspers cannot predict the extent to which these types of business combinations may continue to occur in the future or the success that these combined businesses may achieve. The on-going consolidation could potentially place Naspers at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources and its ability to develop and exploit new media technologies. Naspers’ intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected under current laws in some jurisdictions, which may adversely affect its results and ability to grow Naspers’ products are largely comprised of intellectual property content that is delivered through a variety of media, including magazines, newspapers, books, television and the internet. Naspers relies on trademark, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect its proprietary rights in these products. Naspers conducts business in some countries where the extent of the legal protection for its intellectual property rights is not well-established or is uncertain. Even where the legal protection for Naspers’ intellectual property rights is well-established, Naspers intellectual property rights may be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented. Despite patent, trademark and copyright protection, third parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from Naspers’ intellectual property rights without its authorization. The lack of internet specific legislation relating to trademark and copyright protection creates a further challenge for Naspers to protect content delivered through the internet and electronic platforms. If unauthorized copying or misuse of Naspers’ products were to 14 occur to any substantial degree, Naspers’ business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to protect Naspers’ intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of Naspers’ efforts away from operating its business. Legal claims in connection with content that Naspers distributes may require Naspers to incur significant costs or to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which could adversely affect Naspers’ competitive position The content Naspers makes available to customers through its publishing, pay-television and internet businesses could result in claims against it based on a variety of grounds, including defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, obscenity or facilitating illegal activities. In particular, Naspers expects that software developers will increasingly be subject to claims asserting the infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights as the number of products and competitors providing software and services increases. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation or might require Naspers to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to Naspers or at all. As a result of infringement claims, a court could also issue an injunction preventing the distribution of certain products. Naspers may incur significant costs defending these claims. Naspers may need to improve its internal controls over financial reporting and Naspers’ independent auditors may not be able to attest to their effectiveness, which could adversely affect Naspers’ business operations, reputation and profitability Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that Naspers document its internal control systems and processes over financial reporting, evaluate the adequacy of the design of these respective controls and test that these controls are operating effectively. Naspers is currently evaluating its internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and its independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404. Naspers is still in the process of evaluating the adequacy of design and testing the effectiveness of these various internal control activities over financial reporting. Certain potential significant deficiencies and material weaknesses have been identified to date which, if not remedied, could adversely impact our reporting obligations under Section 404. If Naspers is not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 by March 31, 2007, its independent auditors may not be able to attest to the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls over its financial reporting. In such an instance, Naspers may be subject to sanction or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of Naspers’ financial statements. In addition, Naspers may be required to incur costs in improving its internal control systems. Any such action could negatively affect Naspers’ results and have an adverse effect on its business operations, reputation and profitability. Changes in accounting standards or interpretations issued by standard-setting bodies for IFRS and U.S. GAAP may adversely affect Naspers’ reported revenues, profitability and financial results Our financial statements are subject to the application of IFRS and U.S. GAAP, which are periodically revised. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. In particular, IFRS, as a relatively new set of accounting principles, is subject to further change. Accordingly, Naspers is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by the relevant authoritative bodies. Those changes could adversely affect Naspers’ reported revenues, profitability and financial results. For example, with the increased focus on fair value accounting, changes in the market valuation of certain financial instruments will be reflected in the reported results before those gains or losses are actually realized and this could have a significant impact on the income statement. IFRS standards now also require certain items that previously had no income statement impact to be expensed through the income statement . This can in some instances cause the reported financial results to not reflect what Naspers’ believes is the economic reality of its business. Naspers believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures. However, other companies have experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in significant penalties. 15 Risks relating to the Class N ordinary shares and Naspers ADSs Existing Class A ordinary shares of Naspers have more voting rights than, and a liquidation preference over, the Class N ordinary shares and ADSs of Naspers Naspers’ issued capital at March 31, 2006 consists of 712,131 Class A ordinary shares and 315,113,700 Class N ordinary shares. The Class N ordinary shares are listed on the JSE and on a poll carry one vote per share. The Class A ordinary shares are not listed on a stock exchange and on a poll carry 1,000 votes per share. Naspers, through Heemstede Beleggings (Proprietary) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Naspers, holds 49% of Naspers Beleggings Limited which, in turn, holds 49.15% of the Class A ordinary shares, which carry approximately 34.09% of the total voting rights in respect of Naspers’ ordinary shares. Keeromstraat 30 Beleggings Limited holds 30.80% of the Class A ordinary shares, which represents 21.36% of the total voting rights in respect of Naspers’ ordinary shares. Some members of the board of directors of Keeromstraat 30 Beleggings Limited, Naspers Beleggings Limited and Heemstede Beleggings (Proprietary) Limited are also members of the board of directors of Naspers Limited. As a result, the controlling shareholders and these directors significantly influence the outcome of any action requiring approval of shareholders, including amendments to Naspers’ memorandum and articles of association for any purpose, the issuance of additional Class A or Class N ordinary shares, and mergers and other business combinations. If the interests of Naspers’ controlling shareholders and directors diverge from the interests of other shareholders, they may be in a position to cause or require Naspers to act in a way that is inconsistent with the general interests of holders of Class N ordinary shares and ADSs. If Naspers is liquidated, holders of Class A ordinary shares will be paid the nominal value of such shares before any payment is made to holders of Class N ordinary shares or ADSs. Based on the outstanding Class A ordinary shares, this amounted to approximately Rand 14.2 million as of March 31, 2006. In terms of South African company law, resolutions passed by Naspers’ shareholders and the lower voting rights of the Class N ordinary shares relative to Class A ordinary shares could deter a change in control and may adversely affect Naspers’ share price Some of the provisions of the South African Companies Act, 1973 (the “Companies Act”) and some of the resolutions passed annually by Naspers’ shareholders in general meeting may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with Naspers, which could reduce the market value of Class N ordinary shares and ADSs. The Companies Act requires that 75% of the total votes exercisable by all shareholders at a meeting (subject to a quorum of shareholders holding at least 25% of the total number of votes present, in person or by proxy, at the meeting) approve changes to certain provisions of Naspers’ memorandum and articles of association. In addition, Naspers’ shareholders in general meeting may annually pass resolutions that authorize Naspers’ board of directors to issue certain Class N ordinary shares and certain Class A ordinary shares without the specific approval of the holders of Class N ordinary shares. The lower voting rights of the Class N ordinary shares relative to Class A ordinary shares could prevent or hinder a merger, takeover or other business combination involving Naspers or discourage a potential acquirer from otherwise attempting to obtain control of Naspers. Your ability to sell a substantial number of ADSs may be restricted by the liquidity of shares traded on the Nasdaq The only trading market for Class N ordinary shares is the JSE. The only trading market for Naspers ADSs is the Nasdaq Stock Market (“Nasdaq”). Trading volumes of Naspers ADSs on Nasdaq have been low. As a result, the ability of a holder to sell a substantial number of ADSs on Nasdaq in a timely manner may be restricted. From July 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006, 220.1 million Class N ordinary shares (70% of the total issued) were traded on the JSE and 3.7 million ADSs were traded on Nasdaq. 16 ITEM 