ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS In the normal course of business, and in an effort to keep our shareholders and the public informed about our operations and portfolio of investments, we may from time-to-time issue certain statements, either in writing or orally, that contain or may contain forward-looking information. Generally, these statements relate to our business plans or strategies or portfolio companies, projected or anticipated benefits or consequences of such plans or strategies, projected or anticipated benefits of new or follow-on investments made by or to be made by us, or projections involving anticipated purchases or sales of securities or other aspects of our operating results. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. As noted elsewhere in this report, our operations and portfolio of investments are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks, and other influences, many of which are outside our control, and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect the results of our operations, or our net asset value (“NAV”), the market price of our common stock, and whether any forward-looking statements made by us ultimately prove to be accurate. Investing in Chanticleer involves a number of significant risks relating to our business and investment objective. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will achieve our investment objective. In addition, the following risk factors are applicable to an investment in our common stock. 8 GENERAL RISK FACTORS We are a recently organized company with limited resources and sources of revenues. We made our election to become a BDC in 2005 and have entered into a number of financing transactions with portfolio companies as described in the notes to the financial statements. We have limited experience relating to the identification, evaluation and acquisition of target businesses and, accordingly, there is only a limited basis upon which to evaluate our prospects for achieving our intended business objectives. To date, our efforts have been limited primarily to organizational activities and acquisition of the investments described in the notes to the financial statements. We have raised $3,123,462 from sales of our common stock and have a cost basis in our investments of $3,292,229 at December 31, 2007. We have realized only limited revenues to date. We are wholly dependent for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of all of our investments on the diligence and skill of its management, acting under the supervision of our Board of Directors. None of these individuals has substantial experience, within the BDC business format, in acquiring and investing in growth stage companies, the negotiation of the terms of such investments and the monitoring of such investments after they are made. We cannot assure you that we will attain our investment objective. We filed our notice of intent to become a BDC which requires us to comply with significant regulatory requirements. On May 23, 2005, we filed a notice with the Securities and Exchange Commission of our intent to be regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act and be subject to Sections 54 through 65 of said Act. Being subject to the BDC provisions requires us to meet significant numbers of regulatory and financial requirements. Compliance with these regulations is expensive and may create financial obstacles for us in the future. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The increased costs associated with compliance with the 1940 Act as a result of our election to become a BDC include costs associated with the increased demand for compliance including oversight by our Chief Compliance Officer and counsel to the Company as well as increased costs due to accounting methodology and valuations which increase the time and work required of both our accounting service providers and independent auditors. These costs require us to expend capital and resources that might otherwise be used to meet the needs or opportunities relating to investments and/or our portfolio companies or other income-producing assets. If we do not remain a BDC, we may continue to be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would decrease our operating flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will successfully retain our BDC status. 9 There are risks which result from the inherent concentration of investments prior to diversification. While we intend to allocate our investments among different portfolio companies, it is possible that, prior to our achieving diversification, a significant amount or all of our NAV at any one time could be invested in the securities of just a few portfolio companies. Thus, our success and its NAV would be dependent on the success of just a few portfolio companies. All of the risks associated with ownership of such portfolio companies including success dependent on management, market conditions within the industry or field of such portfolio companies, achieving the business objectives of such portfolio companies and economic conditions and other conditions relative to the operation of such portfolio companies, would become risks borne by us. Limitation of liability and indemnification of management. While limitations of liability and indemnification are themselves limited, we have instituted provisions in our by-laws indemnifying against and not making management liable for, any loss or liability incurred in connection with our affairs, so long as such loss or liability arose from acts performed in good faith and not involving any fraud, gross negligence or willful misconduct. Therefore, to the extent that these provisions provide any protection to management, that protection may limit the right of a shareholder to collect damages from members of management. Management is accountable to the shareholder as a fiduciary and, consequently, members of management are required to exercise good faith and integrity in handling our affairs. Our business may become subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels. Our operations are and will be affected by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory authorities. It is not possible to predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Our investments may require us to raise additional capital on different terms. In the future we may require additional capital. For additional requirements, we may raise capital by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, and if we do, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. In addition, any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our existing equity. Our ability to raise capital as a BDC is limited by the requirement that we not sell shares below the net asset value per share (“NAV/S”) without approval of a majority of our shareholders. While we do not anticipate that the NAV/S calculation will ever result in a negative number or a nominally positive number, the Company would be severely limited in its ability to sell shares if such number was negative or nominally positive. We cannot guarantee paying dividends to our stockholders. We are allowed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws to pay dividends to our stockholders. However, there can be no guarantee we will have sufficient revenues to pay dividends. Consequently, there is no assurance that the Company will pay any dividends during any period. Investors in need of liquidity through the payment of dividends should refrain from investing in our common stock. 10 GENERAL RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT COMPANIES BDCs generally require substantial amounts of time to realize the benefits from investments. We have obtained funding and completed the initial selection of portfolio companies for our first round of equity investments. Venture capital investments typically take from four to eight years from the date of initial investment to reach a state of maturity at which liquidation can be considered practical. In light of the foregoing, it is unlikely that any significant distributions of the proceeds from the liquidation of equity investments will be made for several years after inception, if at all. We may change our investment policies without further shareholder approval. Although we are limited by the 1940 Act with respect to the percentage of our assets that must be invested in qualified portfolio companies, we are not limited with respect to the minimum standard that any investment company must meet, nor the industries in which those investment companies must operate. We may make investments without shareholder approval and such investments may deviate significantly from our historic operations. Any change in our investment policy or selection of investments could adversely affect our stock price, liquidity, and the ability of our shareholders to sell their stock. Our investments may not generate sufficient income to cover our operations. We intend to make investments into qualified companies that will provide the greatest overall return on our investment. This is in conformity with the Small Business Investment Incentive Act of 1980 which amended the 1940 Act and created BDC’s. However, certain of those investments may fail, in which case we will not receive any return on our investment. In addition, our investments may not generate income, either in the immediate future, or at all. As a result, we may have to sell additional stock, or borrow money, to cover our operating expenses. The effect of such actions could cause our stock price to decline or, if we are not successful in raising additional capital, we could cease to continue as a going concern. It should be noted that our operational costs are higher as a result of our having elected to be governed as a BDC. 11 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTMENTS AND PORTFOLIO COMPANIES There are costs associated with the purchase and sale of securities. Some of our strategies may include purchases of different classes of securities or frequent trading to maximize profits and, as a consequence, risks related to turnover and costs such as brokerage commissions may be greater than an investment in a single entity for a single class of security held for a longer period of time. Our operating expenses, including, but not limited to, fees paid to accountants, attorneys, fees to execute trades and manage investments and fees paid to any investment advisor may, in the aggregate, constitute a high percentage relative to the expenses and fees than for an investment in a single entity for a single class of security held for a longer period of time. There are numerous risks arising from investing in securities. The securities industry is generally competitive and methods of investment strategy each involve a degree of risk. We will compete with firms, including many of the larger securities and investment banking firms, which have substantially greater financial resources and research staffs. Where we purchase securities in portfolio companies for appreciation, our profitability substantially depends upon our ability to correctly assess the future price movements of stocks. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately predict price movements of securities purchased. Security investments generally involve a high degree of risk. The performance of securities in which we may invest are subject to numerous factors which are neither within the control of nor predictable by us. Such factors can include a wide range of economic, political, competitive and other conditions which may affect investments in general or specific industries or companies. In recent years, the securities markets have become increasingly volatile and this volatility has increased the degree of risk. Investing in small and growth stage companies is inherently risky. Investments in growth stage companies offer the opportunity for significant gains. However, each investment involves a high degree of business and financial risk that can result in substantial losses. Among these are the risks associated with: · Investing in companies in an early-stage of development or with little or no operating history; · Companies operating at a loss or with substantial variations in operating results from period to period; and · Companies with the need for substantial additional capital to support expansion or to achieve or maintain a competitive position. 12 These companies may face intense competition, including competition from companies with: · Greater financial resources; · More extensive development, manufacturing, marketing, and service capabilities; and · A larger number of qualified managerial and technical personnel. Although we intend to mitigate our risk exposure by limiting our investments in early stage companies, we cannot assure you that the portfolio companies in which we choose to place a majority of our investment capital are not facing the same risks of companies that are inherent in start-up companies. In addition, growth stage companies are likely to have a very limited operating history and thus evaluating their worthiness for investment will be more subjective on their future potential for growth and cannot be predicated on operating successes. We are dependent on the quality and actions of management of portfolio companies. Our success will depend upon the success of the portfolio companies and, in great part, upon the abilities of their management. Although our management expects to provide portfolio companies with assistance (particularly with regard to capital formation, major personnel decisions, and strategic planning), the day-to-day operations will be controlled by the management of the portfolio companies. Investors must rely upon our management to select portfolio companies that have, or can obtain, the necessary management resources. Problems may arise at portfolio companies that local management does not recognize or cannot resolve. In addition, the management of portfolio companies may conceal the existence of problems from us. The value of securities we own may be adversely impacted by subsequent regulatory changes. Our current investment strategy includes purchase of unregistered securities in both private companies and private placements offered by public companies. We are able to purchase securities pursuant to exemptions to the registration requirements of United States Federal securities laws. Changes in such laws or their interpretation could adversely impact our ability to resell such securities which would have a negative effect on the value of such securities as well as impact our overall investment strategy and the liquidity of our investments. In such an event, we may need to reformulate our investment strategy or we may choose to liquidate. Limitations on availability of investment capital may adversely affect other investments. We may be reliant on the availability of capital to generate profits under its investment strategy and such availability will depend, in part, on our ability to timely liquidate existing positions in order to reinvest the proceeds thereof. To the extent that we own securities which are not subject to a valid registration statement or otherwise available for trading under applicable securities laws, our ability to liquidate our position in such securities may be limited. We intend to require some of our portfolio companies to use their best efforts to cause a registration statement covering the resale of the securities we purchase to be filed and declared effective by the SEC or become otherwise freely tradeable. However, there can be no guarantee that the SEC or other regulating body will declare such a registration statement effective or permit such security to become free of restrictions within such period and, until such securities become freely tradable, we will likely be unable to freely liquidate such interests in restricted securities in the manner and at the prices desired. This resulting lack of liquidity could impair our ability to generate the cash flow from these positions to timely pay our liabilities or obtain funds for the purpose of reinvestment. Although we intend to maintain adequate liquidity to achieve our future investment objectives, there can be no assurance this can be accomplished in all circumstances. 13 Portfolio companies are likely to need additional funding. We expect that many portfolio companies will require additional financing to satisfy their working capital requirements. The amount of additional financing needed will depend upon the maturity and objectives of the particular company. Each round of venture financing, whether from us or other investors is typically intended to provide a portfolio company with enough capital to reach the next major valuation milestone. If the funds provided are not sufficient, a portfolio company may have to raise additional capital at a price unfavorable to the existing investors, including us. The availability of capital is generally a function of capital market conditions that are beyond our control or beyond any portfolio company’s control. We cannot assure you that our management or the management of portfolio companies will be able to predict accurately the future capital requirements necessary for success or that additional funds will be available to portfolio companies from any source. If funding is not available, some portfolio companies may be forced to cease operations. BDC investments are generally illiquid. We anticipate that most of our holdings in portfolio companies will be securities that are subject to restrictions on resale. Generally, unless the securities are subsequently registered under the 1933 Act, we will not be able to sell these securities unless we meet all of the conditions of Rule 144 or another rule under the 1933 Act that permits limited sales under specified conditions. When restricted securities are sold to the public, we may be deemed an underwriter, or possibly a controlling person, with respect thereto for the purpose of the Securities Act and may be subject to liability as such under the 1933 Act. These restrictions could require us to hold securities or refrain from sale and be unable to liquidate a position even at a loss. Even if we meet all of the conditions of the 1933 Act, there may be no market for the securities that we hold. These limitations on liquidity of a BDC's investments could prevent a successful sale thereof, result in delay of any sale, or substantially reduce the amount of proceeds that might otherwise be realized. It is possible that one or more of the portfolio companies may not be able to register its shares. In such event, we would own "restricted" securities subject to resale under Rule 144. Lack of diversity of investments by a BDC presents risks associated with specific industries. We anticipate that we will not be able to diversify our investments in the early years of our operation and, as a result, not gain the benefit of diversification which is the balancing of adverse economic conditions over our holdings in portfolio companies. 14 There are risks associated with investments in companies with small capitalization. The portfolio companies that we expect to invest in are thinly capitalized and generally have a market capitalization below $100 million (and frequently much smaller). These companies generally do not have experience, market awareness, tracking by analysts, institutional investors and other benefits of larger companies that result in more marketability and stability of their securities. This impacts the liquidity of securities issued by those portfolio companies. It is expected that the securities of a significant number of the portfolio companies will be thinly traded. This could present a problem when we determine to liquidate our position. We may not be able to sell the securities in the time frame and at the price we would prefer. Furthermore, in certain situations, as a result of a security being thinly traded, we could experience a significant loss in value should we be forced to liquidate our investment as a result of rapidly changing market conditions or other factors. There are risks associated with investments in companies with not readily marketable securities. We may invest in securities that are initially, or that later become, not readily marketable. For example, we may acquire restricted securities of an issuer in a private placement pursuant to an arrangement whereby the issuer agrees to register the resale of those securities, or, in the case of an investment in convertible or exchangeable securities, the securities underlying such securities, within a certain period of time. Such registration requires compliance with United States Federal and state securities laws and the approval of the SEC. Unless and until such registration or compliance with applicable regulation occurs, there is likely to be no market for the restricted securities. No assurance can be given that issuers will not breach their obligation to obtain or meet such registration or other compliance obligation. Similarly, securities that are at one time marketable may become unmarketable (or more difficult to market) for a number of reasons. For example, securities traded on a securities exchange or quotation system may become unmarketable if delisted from such exchange or quotation system for among other reasons, failing to satisfy the requirements for continued listing, which may include minimum price requirements. In addition, we may acquire restricted securities, for which no market exists, which are convertible or exchangeable into common stock of the issuer. No assurances can be given that a portfolio company which has sold a convertible security requiring exchange or conversion will not breach its obligation to convert or exchange such securities upon demand, in which case our liquidity may be adversely affected. In general, the stability and liquidity of the securities in which we invest will depend in large part on the creditworthiness of the issuers. Issuers' creditworthiness will be monitored on an ongoing basis by us. If there is a default by the issuer, we may have contractual remedies under the applicable transaction documents. However, exercising such contractual rights may involve delays in liquidating our position and the incurrence of additional costs. Portfolio companies in which investments are made may have publicly-traded securities but those companies or their securities may become subject to restrictions due to non-compliance. Our ability to generate profits from our investment activities may be adversely affected by a failure of portfolio companies to comply with registration, conversion, exchange or other obligations under the agreements pursuant to which such securities have been sold to us. The failure of an issuer to register the resale of its securities sold to us may decrease the amount of available capital with which we may pursue other investment opportunities or meet current liabilities. We may invest in securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for common stock of the issuer, the resale of which by us is (or is to be) registered. If an issuer refuses, is unable to, or delays in timely honoring its obligation to issue registered securities, our ability to liquidate our position and our profits may be adversely affected. 15 RISKS OF THE COMPANY AT ITS PRESENT STAGE We have obtained only limited funding at this time. Through December 31, 2007, we raised $3,123,462 from sales of our common stock. We intend to raise more capital through the sales of shares of our common stock. The offer and sale of the shares will not be registered under the 1933 Act since their issuance and sale is exempt from such registration requirements pursuant to Regulation E of the 1933 Act. Because the first $5,000,000 raised, each year, will be from shares that will be acquired by investors in transactions involving an exempt private offering pursuant to Regulation E, they will be unrestricted or free-trading securities and may be freely traded, transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise disposed of at the time of issuance. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in selling the common shares or, if sold, at what price. We have identified and made investments in a limited number of portfolio companies. Investors will have a limited opportunity to evaluate the portfolio companies that we invested in. We cannot assure you that we will locate or successfully negotiate additional transactions with portfolio companies. We are likely to incur substantial losses in the first years of operations. If additional funding is obtained, it is anticipated that most of such funding, except for operating cash reserves and funds set aside for follow-on investments in then-existing portfolio companies, will be expended or committed within two years, which is expected to be prior to us receiving any substantial realized gains. Our management anticipates that we and a number of the portfolio companies will sustain substantial losses in the initial years of operation. It is possible that these losses may never be recovered. We cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable. We are totally reliant on management. We are wholly dependent for the selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of all of our investments on the diligence and skill of our management, acting under the supervision of our Board of Directors. None of these individuals (currently four people) has substantial experience in acquiring and investing in growth stage companies, the negotiation of the terms of such investments and the monitoring of such investments after they are made. 16 In addition, we will engage outside consultants and professionals known to management to assist in evaluating and monitoring portfolio companies and maintaining regulatory compliance. We cannot assure you that we will attain our investment objective. We have broad discretionary use of the proceeds from any funding that we obtain. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of any funding that we obtain, although substantially all of the net proceeds from any offering is intended to be applied for investments in eligible portfolio companies which satisfy our investment criteria. While our corporate governance resolutions require the Board of Directors and Investment Committee to adhere to certain standards, even acting in compliance with those guidelines, our Board of Directors and Investment Committee have discretion. We do not permit our Board of Directors and Investment Committee to use proceeds in a manner inconsistent with the operation of a BDC. We will be confronted by competition from entities having substantially greater resources and experience. Other entities and individuals compete for investments similar to those we propose to make, many of whom will have greater financial and management resources than we do. Furthermore, we must comply with provisions of the 1940 Act pertaining to BDCs and, if we qualify as a Registered Investment Company (“RIC”), provisions of the Internal Revenue Code pertaining to RICs might restrict our flexibility as compared with our competitors. The need to compete for investment opportunities may make it necessary for us to offer portfolio companies more attractive transaction terms than otherwise might be the case. These factors may prevent us from ever becoming profitable. We are unlikely to qualify for the income tax benefits offered to RICs. We will be classified as a non-diversified investment company under the 1940 Act. We are not subject to the diversification requirements applicable to RICs under the Internal Revenue Code. Therefore, we will not receive favorable pass through tax treatment on distributions to our shareholders. This means that we will be taxed as an ordinary corporation on our taxable income even if that income is distributed to shareholders, and all distributions out of our earnings and profits will be taxable to shareholders as dividends. Thus, this income will be subject to a double layer of tax. Distributions to shareholders may never equal the amount invested by the shareholders. We cannot assure you that we will make any distributions to shareholders or that aggregate distributions, if any, will equal or exceed the shareholders' investment. Sales of portfolio company securities will be the principal source of distributable cash to shareholders. The directors have absolute discretion in the timing of distributions to shareholders. Securities we acquire through equity investments will be held by us and will be sold or distributed at the sole discretion of the Board of Directors. 17 We indemnify officers and directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware law. Our articles of incorporation provide for indemnification of directors, officers, employees and our agents to the full extent permitted by Delaware law and the 1940 Act. There are significant potential conflicts of interest, which could impact our investment returns Our executive officer(s) and director(s) serve or may serve as officers and directors of entities which operate in the same or related line of business as we do. Accordingly, they may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. In addition, they may not be available to us if there are time conflicts involving other entities. Our common stock has a limited trading history, and we cannot assure you that any trading market will develop. Our common stock is currently listed on the electronic quotation and reporting service maintained by the National Association of Securities Dealers (“NASD”) and known as the “OTC Bulletin Board” or “OTCBB” system and trades under the symbol "CEEH". Our common stock is unlikely to be followed by any market analysts, and there may be few institutions acting as market makers for the common stock. Either of these factors could adversely affect the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. Also, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume volatility that has affected the market prices of securities of many companies. At times, this volatility has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The market price and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, which may adversely affect our ability to raise capital through future equity financings. These factors, many over which we have no control and that may not be directly related to us, include the following: · Significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of closed-end investment companies, business development companies or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; · Changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; · A loss of BDC status; · Changes in earnings or variations in operating results; 18 · Changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; · Any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; · Departure of key personnel; · Potential legal and regulatory matters; · Operating performance of companies comparable to us; and · General economic trends and other external factors. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If a market does develop for our shares of common stock, of which we can make no assurances, subsequent sales of substantial amounts of our common stock or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. If this occurs and continues, it could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities should we desire to do so. We are authorized to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share. Our Board of Directors also has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued shares. Any such issuance will dilute the percentage ownership of shareholders and may further dilute the book value of our common stock. These issuances may also serve to enhance existing management's ability to maintain control of the Company. Our common stock is subject to the "Penny Stock" rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or option to acquire any equity security with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: · That a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and · The broker or dealer receives from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · Obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and · Make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. 19 The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: · Sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and · Stipulates that the broker or dealer receives a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our common stock and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. We have limited operating history upon which to base your investment decision. While we have commenced operations, we have a limited operating history available to evaluate the likelihood of the success of our business. Our prospects should be considered in light of the risks, expenses and uncertainties that may be encountered by development stage companies. Among other things, we must build our customer base, respond to competitive developments, attract, retain and motivate qualified employees and establish and maintain our technologies, products, and services on an ongoing basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in addressing such risks and implementing our business strategy. As a result of our lack of operating history, and the other risks described herein, we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues. Our future expense levels are based predominately on our operating plans and estimates of future revenues, and to a large extent are fixed. We may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for revenues that do not materialize. Accordingly, any significant shortfall in revenues or lack of revenue would likely have an immediate material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to generate revenues will depend upon many factors. We will be required to build our business by implementing operational systems, hiring additional employees, developing and implementing a marketing and sales strategy and implementing our technology applications. Our expenses will initially exceed our revenues and no assurances can be made that we will become profitable or provide positive cash flows. 20 Our management has limited experience with BDC’s. While we believe that our management possesses certain fundamental business skills that will increase our likelihood to succeed, our management team has never operated a BDC and must be considered as inexperienced when it comes to both the day to day operations of an investment company and the management of investments. We intend to rely on the general skills and business acumen of our management team as well as engaging other professionals and consultants from time to time to insure that our management gains the expertise to manage a BDC. The businesses in which we intend to invest are subject to macro, micro and global trends in business, finance, politics, and law. Our potential portfolio investments are located nationwide. Future unfavorable economic conditions, including those resulting from further or protracted economic instability or down turns cannot be estimated at this time due to the uncertainties associated with such economic conditions, and the extent to which the sale of portfolio company products will be affected thereby. The businesses in which we plan to invest are materially affected by competition. Our portfolio companies will face competition on a nationwide basis. Competition for their products will come from companies that may be larger, have more experienced management and be better financed that our portfolio companies. We may sustain substantial losses from fraud. The risk of fraud losses varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, and the effectiveness of security procedures utilized. However, although management believes that any loss due to fraud will be immaterial, there can be no assurance that fraud loss experience will not become material in amount. It must be noted that BDC’s are required to have in place certain safeguards which may render these risks from fraud to be nominal but these risks do exist and even requirements such as holding physical certificates of shares in portfolio companies in a safe do not, in and of themselves, eliminate the possibility of fraud. Restrictions imposed upon the resale of our capital stock may require you to hold your common stock for an indefinite period of time. None of the securities we have issued or will issue in the future, based upon current plans, will be registered under the Securities Act. The common stock we have sold is intended to be exempt from registration pursuant to Regulation E, which permits in conformity therewith, issuance of shares without restriction on further transfer. While we do not anticipate such an adverse decision or determination on the part of the Securities and Exchange Commission, you might be required to hold your common stock, either until our stock is registered under the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, and an exemption from the registration requirements of the blue-sky laws of your state, is available to you. Unless the certificates are sold pursuant to exemption, they will bear legends restricting subsequent transfers pursuant to the restrictions listed above as well as additional restrictions contained in our by-laws. As a result, you may not be able to liquidate your investment readily. 21 You will suffer immediate and substantial dilution in the value of your investment, and it may be further diluted in the future. The purchasers of our common stock will suffer an immediate and substantial dilution in the book value of their investment. We may sell additional equity in the future that may further dilute the value of your investment. Senior management may be granted the right, and other employees and consultants may have the right, under certain circumstances, to acquire additional shares of our common stock. If such a grant of a right occurred at a time where the price of the stock had fallen relative to the current market value and fell below the price paid by you, management might be given the right to purchase stock at a price below your cost. Additionally, reductions in the price of our stock resulting from the performance of our portfolio or other market conditions might result in stock being sold to investors, including management, at prices below the price paid by you. In either of these cases, the value of your investment would be further diluted. Your influence in matters requiring shareholder action will be limited. The officers and directors own less than a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our voting securities (20.19% at February 5, 2008). While the number of shares controlled by the officers and directors is less than a majority, their position of control is material and significant. Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the Company’s Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of stock under certain circumstances could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. We will have broad discretion in using the proceeds from sales of our common stock. Although we have identified generally the manner in which we expect to utilize the proceeds from sales of our common stock, we will have broad discretion in determining the specific uses of the proceeds. You will not have an opportunity to evaluate the basis for our decisions on the use of the proceeds, and will not be able to participate in such decisions. As discussed above, the use of proceeds may not be inconsistent with our goals and objectives of our operation as a BDC. However, we have not yet signed any contracts with any professionals or consultants; including those whose help or assistance is contemplated. Therefore, we can not accurately predict costs associated with such professionals and consultants. For that reason, the use of proceeds can not be determined with absolute certainty. 22 ITEM 