Item 1A. Risk Factors. Challenging economic conditions may adversely affect our business. The economic disruption experienced in the United States and globally during the second half of 2008 and any continuing unfavorable economic conditions may affect our sales and renewals of our products and services, and could negatively affect our revenues and our ability to maintain or grow our business. In addition, the current global financial crisis affecting the banking system and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business has resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, which could impair the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. Our client base is diverse and each client or potential client faces a unique set of risks. These risks include, for example, the availability of public funds and the possibility of state and local budget cuts, reduced enrollment, or lower revenues, which could lead to a reduction in overall spending, including information technology spending, by our current and potential clients. A prolonged economic downturn may result in a reduction in overall demand for educational software products and services, which could cause a decline in both new sales and renewals of our existing products and difficulty in establishing a market for our new products and services. We could lose revenues if there are changes in the spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools and other education providers. Most of our clients and potential clients are colleges, universities, schools and other education providers who depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay or change in federal, state or local funding for colleges, universities, schools and other education providers could cause our current and potential clients to reduce their purchases of our products and services, to exercise their right to terminate licenses, or to decide not to renew licenses, any of which could cause us to lose revenues. In addition, a specific reduction in governmental funding support for products such as ours would also cause us to lose revenues. In light of the severe economic downturn experienced in the U.S. and globally commencing in the second half of 2008, many of our clients have experienced and may continue to experience budgetary pressures, which may have a negative impact on sales of our products. Continuing unfavorable economic conditions may result in budget cuts and lead to lower overall spending, including information technology spending, by our current and potential clients, which may cause our revenues to decrease. In addition, our accounts receivable may increase and the relative aging of our receivables may deteriorate if our clients delay or are unable to make their payments due to the tightening of credit markets and the lack of available funding. A prolonged economic downturn may make it difficult for potential clients to buy our products and might compromise the ability of existing clients to renew their licenses. Also, because many of our clients begin their fiscal year in July or later, the full impact of the economic conditions may not yet have become apparent and we may face decreases in our sales or renewal of existing clients if their new budgets require cost reductions. There is no assurance that our investments in product development and product acquisition will be successful; if our products do not gain market acceptance, our revenues may decrease and we may not realize a return on such investments. We make substantial investments in improving our products and acquiring products through mergers and acquisitions and we have no assurance that our investments will be successful. Our ability to grow our business will be compromised if we do not develop products and services that achieve broad market acceptance with our current and potential clients. We have recently released a new version of our Blackboard Learn platform which offers enhanced functionality over prior versions. If clients do not upgrade to the latest version of the Blackboard Learn platform, the functionality of their existing installed versions will not compare as favorably to competing products which may cause a reduction in renewal rates. Further, if the latest version of our software does not become widely adopted by clients, we may not be able to justify the investments we have made and our financial results will suffer. If our newest products, the Blackboard Outcomes System and Blackboard Connect, do not gain widespread market acceptance, our financial results could suffer. We introduced our newest software 11 Table of Contents application, the Blackboard Outcomes System, in December 2006 and acquired the technology underlying Blackboard Connect through our merger with The NTI Group, Inc. in January 2008. Our ability to grow our business will depend, in part, on client acceptance of these products. If we are not successful in gaining market acceptance of these products, our revenues may fall below our expectations. We face intense and growing competition, which could result in price reductions, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business and license renewals, our revenue growth and operating margins may decline. The markets for online education, transactional, portal, content management, transaction systems and mass notification products are intensely competitive and rapidly changing, and barriers to entry in these markets are relatively low. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Some of our principal competitors offer their products at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Such pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our product and service offerings to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. Our primary competitors for the Blackboard Learn platform are companies and open source solutions that provide course management systems, such as ANGEL Learning, Inc., Desire2Learn Inc., eCollege.com, Jenzabar, Inc., Microsoft, Moodle, Pearson Education, The Sakai Project, VCampus Educator and WebTycho; learning content management systems, such as HarvestRoad Ltd. and Concord USA, Inc.; and education enterprise information portal technologies, such as SunGard SCT Inc., an operating unit of SunGard Data Systems Inc. We also face competition from clients and potential clients who develop their own applications internally, large diversified software vendors who offer products in numerous markets including the education market and open source software applications. Our competitors for the Blackboard Transact platform include companies that provide transaction systems, security and access systems and off-campus merchant relationship programs. Our competitors for Blackboard Connect include a variety of competitors which provide mass notification technologies including voice, email and/or text messaging communications. We may also face competition from potential competitors that are substantially larger than we are and have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, and established, extensive direct and indirect sales and distribution channels. Similarly, our competitors may also be acquired by larger and more well-funded companies which have more resources than our current competitors. These larger companies may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in client requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or prospective clients. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share to our detriment. If potential clients or competitors use open source software to develop products that are competitive with our products and services, we may face decreased demand and pressure to reduce the prices for our products. The growing acceptance and prevalence of open source software may make it easier for competitors or potential competitors to develop software applications that compete with our products, or for clients and potential clients to internally develop software applications that they would otherwise have licensed from us. One of the aspects of open source software is that it can be modified or used to develop new software that competes with proprietary software applications, such as ours. Such competition can develop without the degree of overhead and lead time required by traditional proprietary software companies. As open source offerings become more prevalent, customers may defer or forego purchases of our products, which could reduce our sales and lengthen the sales cycle for our products or result in the loss of current clients to open source solutions. If we are unable to differentiate our products from competitive products based on open source software, demand for our products and services may decline, and we may face pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which would hurt our profitability. 12 Table of Contents Our merger with The NTI Group, Inc. (“NTI”) presents many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction. We completed the merger with NTI on January 31, 2008. We entered into this transaction with the expectation that it would result in various long-term benefits including improved revenue and profits, and enhancements to our product portfolio and customer base. Risks that we may encounter in seeking to realize these benefits include: • we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits if we are unable to sell the NTI products, which are now sold as Blackboard Connect, to our customer base, if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew their contracts, or if the acquired contracts do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; • we may have difficulty incorporating NTI technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • we may face contingencies related to product liability, intellectual property, financial disclosures, and accounting practices or internal controls; • we may have higher than anticipated costs in supporting and continuing development of the Blackboard Connect products and in servicing new and existing Blackboard Connect clients; • we may not be able to retain key employees from NTI; • we may be unable to manage effectively the increased size and complexity of the combined company, and our management’s attention may be diverted from our ongoing business by transition or integration issues; • we may lose anticipated tax benefits or have additional legal or tax exposures; and • we will not be able to determine whether all or any of the 0.4 million shares of stock consideration in the merger that remains contingent on the achievement of certain performance milestones will be issued until the completion of the financial results for fiscal year 2009. Our business strategy contemplates future business combinations and acquisitions which may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. During the course of our history, we have acquired several businesses, and a key element of our growth strategy is to pursue additional acquisitions in the future. Any acquisition could be expensive, disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management and employees. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make these acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. If we make an acquisition, we could have difficulty integrating the acquired technology, employees or operations. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. Acquisitions also involve the risk of potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of any acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in completing or integrating acquisitions that we may pursue in the future, we would be required to reevaluate our growth strategy, and we may have incurred substantial expenses and devoted significant management time and resources in seeking to complete and integrate the acquisitions. Future business combinations could involve the acquisition of significant tangible and intangible assets, which could require us to record in our statements of operations ongoing amortization of identified intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions, which we currently do with respect to our historic acquisitions, including the NTI Group merger. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of identified tangible and intangible assets and goodwill. These accounting charges would reduce any future reported earnings, or increase a reported loss. In future acquisitions, we could also incur debt to pay for acquisitions, or issue additional equity securities as consideration, which could cause our stockholders to suffer significant dilution. 13 Table of Contents Additionally, our ability to utilize, net operating loss carryforwards, if any, acquired in any acquisitions may be significantly limited or unusable by us under Section 382 or other sections of the Internal Revenue Code. Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and we may not be able to fulfill our debt obligations, including the 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2027 (the “Notes”). The outstanding Notes in the principal amount of $165.0 million pose the following risks to our overall business: • upon conversion or redemption of the Notes, we will be required to repay the principal amount of $165.0 million in cash; • we will use a significant portion of our cash flow to pay interest on our outstanding debt, limiting the amount available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • lenders may be unwilling to lend additional amounts to us for future working capital needs, additional acquisitions or other purposes or may only be willing to provide funding on terms we would consider unacceptable; • if our cash flow were inadequate to make interest and principal payments on our debt, we might have to refinance our indebtedness or issue additional equity or other securities and may not be successful in those efforts or may not obtain terms favorable to us; and • our ability to finance working capital needs and general corporate purposes for the public and private markets, as well as the associated cost of funding, is dependent, in part, on our credit ratings, which may be adversely affected if we experience declining revenues. We may be more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions than less leveraged competitors and thus less able to withstand competitive pressures. Any of these events could reduce our ability to generate cash available for investment or debt repayment or to make improvements or respond to events that would enhance profitability. We may incur significantly more debt in the future, which will increase each of the foregoing risks related to our indebtedness. We may not be able to repurchase the Notes when required by the holders, including upon a defined fundamental change or other specified dates at the option of the holder, or pay cash upon conversion of the Notes. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the Notes, holders of the Notes would have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes at a price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. Any future credit agreement or other agreements relating to indebtedness to which we become a party may contain similar provisions. Holders will also have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes for cash or a combination of cash and our common stock on July 1, 2011, July 1, 2017 or July 1, 2022. Moreover, upon conversion of the Notes, we are required to settle a portion of the conversion obligation in cash. In the event that we are required to repurchase the Notes or upon conversion of the Notes, we may not have sufficient financial resources to satisfy all of our obligations under the Notes and our other debt instruments. Our failure to pay the repurchase price when due, to pay cash upon conversion of Notes, or similarly fail to meet our payment obligations, would result in a default under the indenture governing the Notes. Any default under our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Conversion of the Notes may affect the market price of our common stock and may dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of the Notes and any sales in the public market of our common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could 14 Table of Contents depress our common stock price. In addition, the conversion of some or all of the Notes could dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent that shares of our common stock are issued upon conversion. Our reported earnings per share may be more volatile because of the contingent conversion provision of the Notes. The Notes may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share in any period in which the market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price for the Notes as a result of the inclusion of the underlying shares in the fully diluted earnings per share calculation. Volatility in our stock price could cause this condition or other conversion conditions to be met in one quarter and not in a subsequent quarter, increasing the volatility of fully diluted earnings per share. The accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, like the Notes, has changed. In May 2008, the FASB issued new guidance requiring certain components of convertible debt instruments, like the Notes, to be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects an issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. This will result in additional non-cash interest expense over the period the Notes are expected to be outstanding. The new guidance is effective for us beginning January 1, 2009, but retrospective application to all financial periods presented in our financial statements is required. This change will have an adverse impact on our previously reported financial results and will contribute to volatility in future financial results. We are currently finalizing the impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. We currently estimate that the additional non-cash interest expense over the remaining period the Notes are expected to be outstanding will be approximately $13.4 million, of which approximately $6.0 million will be recognized during 2009. Because most of our licenses are renewable on an annual basis, a reduction in our license renewal rate could significantly reduce our revenues. Our clients have no obligation to renew their licenses for our products after the expiration of the initial license period, which is typically one year, and some clients have elected not to do so. A decline in license renewal rates could cause our revenues to decline. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of renewals, so we cannot accurately predict future renewal rates. Our license renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including client dissatisfaction with our products and services, our failure to update our products to maintain their attractiveness in the market or budgetary constraints or changes in budget priorities faced by our clients. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and sale of new products under development. If introduced for sale, the new products may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and may not achieve any significant degree of market acceptance, which could cause our financial results to suffer. In addition, during the development period for the new products, our customers may defer or forego purchases of our products and services. We often obtain renewable client contracts in acquisitions, such as the WebCT and The NTI Group transactions, and if we experience a decrease in the renewal rate from expected levels it could reduce revenues below our expectations. Because we generally recognize revenues ratably over the term of our contract with a client, downturns or upturns in sales will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. We recognize most of our revenues from clients monthly over the terms of their agreements, which are typically 12 months, although terms can range from one month to over 60 months. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is attributable to agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our products in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenues in that quarter, and will negatively affect our revenues and profitability in future quarters. This ratable revenue recognition also makes it difficult for us to rapidly 15 Table of Contents increase our revenues through additional sales in any period, as revenues from new clients must be recognized over the applicable agreement term. Our operating margins may suffer if our professional services revenues increase in proportion to total revenues because our professional services revenues have lower gross margins. Because our professional services revenues typically have lower gross margins than our product revenues, an increase in the percentage of total revenues represented by professional services revenues could have a detrimental impact on our overall gross margins, and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we sometimes subcontract professional services to third parties, which further reduces our gross margins on these professional services. As a result, an increase in the percentage of professional services provided by third-party consultants could lower our overall gross margins. If our products contain errors, new product releases are delayed or our services are disrupted, we could lose new sales and be subject to significant liability claims. Because our software products are complex, they may contain undetected errors or defects, known as bugs. Bugs can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle, but are more common when a new product is introduced or when new versions are released. In the past, we have encountered product development delays and defects in our products. We expect that, despite our testing, errors will be found in new products and product enhancements in the future. In addition, our service offerings may be disrupted causing delays or interruptions in the services provided to our clients. Significant errors in our products or disruptions in the provision of our services could lead to: • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products; • diversion of our resources; • a lower rate of license renewals or upgrades; • injury to our reputation; and • increased service expenses or payment of damages. Because our clients use our products to store, retrieve and utilize critical information, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly or if the provision of our services is disrupted. Such an event could result in significant expenses, disrupt sales and affect our reputation and that of our products. We cannot be certain that the limitations of liability set forth in our licenses and agreements would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages and our insurance may not cover all or any of the claims. A material liability claim against us, regardless of its merit or its outcome, could result in substantial costs, significantly harm our business reputation and divert management’s attention from our operations. The length and unpredictability of the sales cycle for our software could delay new sales and cause our revenues and cash flows for any given quarter to fail to meet our projections or market expectations. The sales cycle between our initial contact with a potential client and the signing of a license with that client typically ranges from 6 to 18 months. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we have only a limited ability to forecast the timing of sales. A delay in or failure to complete license transactions could harm our business and financial results, and could cause our financial results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our sales cycle varies widely, reflecting differences in our potential clients’ decision-making processes, procurement requirements and budget cycles, and is subject to significant risks over which we have little or no control, including: • clients’ budgetary constraints and priorities; • the timing of our clients’ budget cycles; 16 Table of Contents • the need by some clients for lengthy evaluations that often include both their administrators and faculties; and • the length and timing of clients’ approval processes. Potential clients typically conduct extensive and lengthy evaluations before committing to our products and services and generally require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them as to the value of our offerings. In light of the economic disruption experienced in the U.S. and globally commencing in the second half of 2008, we have experienced some lengthening of sales cycles and, depending on the future economic climate, may see a continuation of this trend. Our client base is diverse and each component faces a unique set of risks, including, for example, the possibility of state and local budget cuts for K-12 institutions or reduced enrollment in higher education, which may affect our revenues and our ability to grow our business. If the economic downturn worsens or is prolonged, our clients and prospective clients may defer or cancel their purchases with us, which would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our sales cycle with international postsecondary education providers and U.S. K-12 schools may be longer than our historic U.S. postsecondary sales cycle, which could cause us to incur greater costs and could reduce our operating margins. As we target more of our sales efforts at international postsecondary education providers and U.S. K-12 schools, we could face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales, which may harm our business. A potential client’s decision to use our products and services may be a decision involving multiple institutions and, if so, these types of sales would require us to provide greater levels of education to prospective clients regarding the use and benefits of our products and services. In addition, we expect that potential international postsecondary and U.S. K-12 clients may demand more customization, integration services and features. As a result of these factors, these sales opportunities may require us to devote greater sales support and professional services resources to individual sales, thereby increasing the costs and time required to complete sales and diverting sales and professional services resources to a smaller number of international and U.S. K-12 transactions. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in a variety of jurisdictions and are subject to review by both domestic and foreign taxation authorities. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, which may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Our federal net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations on how much may be utilized on an annual basis. The use of the net operating loss carryforwards may have additional limitations resulting from certain future ownership changes or other factors under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. If our net operating loss carryforwards are further limited, and we have taxable income which exceeds the available net operating loss carryforwards for that period, we would incur an income tax liability even though net operating loss carryforwards may be available in future years prior to their expiration Any such income tax liability may adversely affect our future cash flow, financial position and financial results. The investment of our cash balances are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. We hold our cash in a variety of marketable investments which are generally investment grade, liquid, short-term fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than- 17 Table of Contents temporary, we will be required to further write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. With the current unstable credit environment, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to retain and attract qualified employees. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our key management, technical, sales and other critical personnel, including employees who joined Blackboard in connection with our acquisitions of WebCT and NTI. Whether we are able to execute effectively on our business strategy will depend in large part on how well key management and other personnel perform in their positions and are integrated within our company. Key personnel have left our company over the years, and there may be additional departures of key personnel from time to time. In addition, as we seek to expand our global organization, the hiring of qualified sales, technical and support personnel has been difficult due to the limited number of qualified professionals. Failure to attract, integrate and retain key personnel would result in disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives and the results of our operations. If we do not maintain the compatibility of our products with third-party applications that our clients use in conjunction with our products, demand for our products could decline. Our software applications can be used with a variety of third-party applications used by our clients to extend the functionality of our products, which we believe contributes to the attractiveness of our products in the market. If we are not able to maintain the compatibility of our products with third-party applications, demand for our products could decline, and we could lose sales. We may desire in the future to make our products compatible with new or existing third-party applications that achieve popularity within the education marketplace, and these third-party applications may not be compatible with our designs. Any failure on our part to modify our applications to ensure compatibility with such third-party applications would reduce demand for our products and services. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and other rights, it will reduce our ability to compete for business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use our intellectual property to market products similar to our products, which could decrease demand for our products. In addition, we may be unable to prevent the use of our products by persons who have not paid the required license fee, which could reduce our revenues. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures, to protect our intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our products, and these protections may be costly and difficult to enforce. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. The protective mechanisms we include in our products may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized copying. Existing copyright laws afford only limited protection for our intellectual property rights and may not protect such rights in the event competitors independently develop products similar to ours. In addition, the laws of some countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign our products, pay significant royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. A third party may assert that our technology violates its intellectual property rights. As the number of products in our markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we believe that 18 Table of Contents infringement claims may become more common. Any claims, including the TechRadium action described under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” below, regardless of their merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • force us to stop licensing our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our products and reimburse certain costs to our clients; • divert management’s attention and other company resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risks of litigation. We are in an industry where litigation is common, including litigation related to copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret rights, and other types of claims. Litigation can be expensive and disruptive to normal business operations. The results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Expansion of our business internationally will subject our business to additional economic and operational risks that could increase our costs and make it difficult for us to operate profitably. One of our key growth strategies is to pursue international expansion. Expansion of our international operations may require significant expenditure of financial and management resources and result in increased administrative and compliance costs. As a result of such expansion, we will be increasingly subject to the risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including: • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues and increased operating expenses; • potentially longer payment and sales cycles; • difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • the effect of applicable foreign tax structures, including tax rates that may be higher than tax rates in the United States or taxes that may be duplicative of those imposed in the United States; • tariffs and trade barriers; • general economic and political conditions in each country; • inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; • uncertainty regarding liability for information retrieved and replicated in foreign countries; • the difficulties and increased expenses of complying with a variety of foreign laws, regulations and trade standards; and • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Unauthorized disclosure of data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation or cause us to lose clients. Maintaining the security of our systems is of critical importance for our clients because they may involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and confidential client and student information, including personal student information and consumer financial data, such as credit card numbers. This area is heavily regulated in many countries in which we operate, including the United States. Individuals and groups may develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or attempt to infiltrate our products. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, we could be subject to liability or our business could be interrupted. Penetration of our network security could have a negative impact on our reputation, could lead our present and potential clients to choose competing offerings, and could result in legal or regulatory action against us. Even if we do not encounter a security breach ourselves, a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of another company could 19 Table of Contents lead to a general public loss of confidence in the use of our products, which could significantly diminish the attractiveness of our products and services. Operational failures in our network infrastructure could disrupt our remote hosting services, could cause us to lose clients and sales to potential clients and could result in increased expenses and reduced revenues. Unanticipated problems affecting our network systems could cause interruptions or delays in the delivery of the hosting services we provide to some of our clients. We provide remote hosting through computer hardware that is currently located in third-party co-location facilities in various locations in the United States, The Netherlands and Australia. We do not control the operation of these co-location facilities. Lengthy interruptions in our hosting service could be caused by the occurrence of a natural disaster, power loss, vandalism or other telecommunications problems at the co-location facilities or if these co-location facilities were to close without adequate notice. Although we have developed certain redundancies in our systems, we have experienced problems of this nature from time to time in the past, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk of network failures in the future. We currently do not have adequate computer hardware and systems to provide alternative service for most of our hosted clients in the event of an extended loss of service at the co-location facilities. Certain of our co-location facilities are served by data backup redundancy at other facilities. However, they are not equipped to provide full disaster recovery to all of our hosted clients. If there are operational failures in our network infrastructure that cause interruptions, slower response times, loss of data or extended loss of service for our remotely hosted clients, we may be required to issue credits or pay penalties, current clients may terminate their contracts or elect not to renew them, and we may lose sales to potential clients. If we determine that we need additional hardware and systems, we may be required to make further investments in our network infrastructure. U.S. and foreign government regulation of our products and services could cause us to incur significant expenses, and failure to comply with applicable regulations could make our business less efficient or even impossible. The application of existing laws and regulations potentially applicable to our products and services, including regulations relating to issues such as privacy, telecommunications, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, consumer protection, content regulation, quality of products and services and intellectual property ownership and infringement, can be unclear. It is possible that U.S., state, local and foreign governments might attempt to regulate our products and services or prosecute us for violations of their laws. In addition, these laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future, which could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. Any existing or new legislation applicable to us could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and dampen the growth in use of our products and services. We may be subject to state and federal financial services regulation, and any violation of any present or future regulation could expose us to liability, force us to change our business practices or force us to stop selling or modify our products and services. Our transaction processing product and service offering could be subject to state and federal financial services regulation. The Blackboard Transact platform supports the creation and management of student debit accounts and the processing of payments against those accounts for both on-campus vendors and off-campus merchants. For example, one or more federal or state governmental agencies that regulate or monitor banks or other types of providers of electronic commerce services may conclude that we are engaged in banking or other financial services activities that are regulated by the Federal Reserve under the U.S. Federal Electronic Funds Transfer Act or Regulation E thereunder or by state agencies under similar state statutes or regulations. Regulatory requirements may include, for example: • disclosure of consumer rights and our business policies and practices; • restrictions on uses and disclosures of customer information; • error resolution procedures; • limitations on consumers’ liability for unauthorized account activity; 20 Table of Contents • data security requirements; • government registration; and • reporting and documentation requirements. A number of states have enacted legislation regulating check sellers, money transmitters or transaction settlement service providers as banks. If we were deemed to be in violation of any current or future regulations, we could be exposed to financial liability and adverse publicity or forced to change our business practices or stop selling some of our products and services. As a result, we could face significant legal fees, delays in extending our product and services offerings, and damage to our reputation that could harm our business and reduce demand for our products and services. Even if we are not required to change our business practices, we could be required to obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could cause us to incur substantial costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 