Risk Factors,” beginning on page 15 of this Annual Report and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in other documents we file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements by or attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors. OmniVision and OmniPixel are registered trademarks of OmniVision Technologies, Inc. CameraChip, OmniPixel2, OmniPixel3, OmniQSP and TrueFocus are trademarks of OmniVision Technologies, Inc. Wavefront Coded is a registered trademark of CDM Optics, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of OmniVision Technologies, Inc. Wavefront Coding is a trademark of CDM Optics, Inc. Corporate Information OmniVision Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in May 1995 in California, and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2000. Our executive offices are located at 1341 Orleans Drive, Sunnyvale, California 94089-1136 and our telephone number is (408) 542-3000. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statement for our annual stockholders’ meeting and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to these reports, are available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Information about our company is available on the Internet at www.ovt.com. The information in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this report. Overview We design, develop and market high performance, highly integrated and cost efficient semiconductor image sensor devices. Our main products, image-sensing devices which we refer to by the name CameraChip™ image sensors, are used to capture an image electronically and are used in a number of consumer and commercial mass-market applications. Our CameraChip image sensors are manufactured using the complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, fabrication process. Our CameraChip image sensors are predominantly single-chip CMOS solutions that integrate several distinct functions including image capture, image processing, color processing, signal conversion and output of a fully processed image or video stream. We believe that our highly integrated CameraChip image sensors enable camera device manufacturers to build high quality camera products that are smaller, less complex, more reliable, more cost effective and more power efficient than cameras using traditional charge-coupled devices, or CCDs. We sell our products worldwide directly to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, which include branded customers and contract manufacturers, and value added resellers, or VARs, and indirectly through distributors. In order to ensure that we address all available markets for our image sensors, we divide our marketing efforts into two separate departments. The Mainstream Products marketing department addresses the camera cell 3 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) phone and digital still camera, or DSC, markets, and the Advanced Products marketing department addresses the security and surveillance, toys and games, personal computer, automotive and medical markets. We currently outsource the wafer fabrication and packaging of our image-sensor products to third parties. We outsource the color filter and micro-lens phases of production to a joint venture. This approach allows us to focus our resources on the design, development, marketing and testing of our products and significantly reduces our capital requirements. We currently perform the final testing of the majority of our products ourselves at our facility in Shanghai, China. We are currently upgrading and expanding our testing capabilities with new automated testing equipment. The Current Economic and Market Environment We operate in a challenging economic environment that has undergone significant changes in technology and in patterns of global trade. We strive to remain a leader in the development and marketing of image sensing devices based on the CMOS fabrication process and have benefited from the growing market demand for and acceptance of this technology. In the camera cell phone market in particular, future revenues depend to a large extent on design wins where, on the basis of an exhaustive evaluation of available products, a particular handset maker determines which image sensor to design into one or more specific models. There is generally a time lag of between six and nine months between the time of a particular design win and the first shipments of the designated product. Design wins are also an important driver in the many other markets that we address, and in some cases, such as automotive applications, the time lag between a particular design win and first revenue can be longer than one year. In most cases, the decision to specify a particular product requires conforming other specifications of the product to the chosen image sensor and makes subsequent changes both difficult and expensive. Accordingly, the ability to produce and deliver reliable products on time and in large quantities is a key competitive differentiator. Since our inception, we have shipped more than 550 million image sensors, including approximately 250 million in fiscal 2007, which demonstrates the capabilities of our production system. To increase and enhance our production capabilities, last year we completed a project with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd., or TSMC, our principal wafer supplier and one of the largest wafer fabrication companies in the world, to increase from two to four the number of their fabrication facilities, at which our products can be produced. VisEra, our joint venture with TSMC and our investments in two key back-end packaging suppliers are part of a broad strategy to ensure that we have sufficient back-end capacity for the processing of our image sensors in the various formats required by our customers. In January 2007, we amended our joint venture agreement with TSMC to each invest an additional $27 million in VisEra to fund VisEra’s further expansion. Separately, TSMC purchased approximately 90.5 million previously-unissued shares from XinTec, Inc., or XinTec, a Taiwan-based provider of chip-scale packaging services, to expand XinTec’s capacity. In February 2007, we entered into a foundry manufacturing agreement with Powerchip Semiconductor Corp., or PSC. We are also expanding our testing capacity in China, as well as our overall capability to design more custom products for our customers. As necessary, we will make further investments to ensure that we have sufficient capacity to meet the demands of our customers as part of our ongoing efforts to lower production costs to offset, at least in part, the continuing pressure we experience on prices. Many of the products using our image sensors, such as camera cell phones, digital still cameras and cameras for toys and games, are consumer electronics goods. These mass-market camera devices generally have seasonal cycles which historically have caused the sales of our customers to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter. Historically, demand from OEMs and distributors that serve such consumer product markets has been stronger in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year and weaker in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, since a very large number of the manufacturers who use our products are located in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, the pattern of demand for our image sensors has been increasingly influenced by the timing of the extended lunar or Chinese New Year holiday, a period in which the factories which use our image sensors generally close. We believe that the market opportunity represented by cell phones remains very large. The percentage of cell phones which incorporate a camera continues to increase, and we are now seeing cell phones equipped with a second camera designed for use in video-conferencing. In fiscal 2007, we benefited from the growth in shipments of 4 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) image sensors, particularly for camera cell phones, where we saw increased demand for our video graphics array, or VGA, 1.3-megapixel and 2.0-megapixel image sensors. We also believe that, like the DSC market, camera cell phone demand will not only continue to shift toward higher resolutions, but also will increasingly fragment into multiple resolution categories. In addition, there is increased demand for customization, and several different interface standards are coming to maturity. All of these trends will require the development of an increasing variety of products. In response to these trends we have introduced several 1.3-megapixel products based on our OmniPixel® technology. In fiscal 2007, we began volume production and shipments of our first product based on the second generation of our OmniPixel technology which we call OmniPixel2™ technology. This is a 2.0-megapixel image sensor, the world’s first 2.0-megapixel sensor in a quarter-inch format. We also believe that VGA resolution sensors will continue to account for a large portion of the volume shipments in handsets in fiscal 2008. Consequently, we have continued to introduce new products at this resolution, most recently the OV7680, a 1/10 inch VGA sensor that permits a camera module height of 3.17 mm. We also believe that consumers will require image focusing capabilities as image sensor resolutions in camera cell phones continue to increase. To meet this requirement, we introduced our first TrueFocus product in February 2007. The camera cell phone market also evidences a trend toward slim and thin form factors. In January 2006, based on the new and improved OV7670 VGA sensor, we introduced an ultra thin VGA camera module which measures 6 x 6 x 4.1 mm. Our design meets the current trend of slim and thin form factors in camera phones and other electronic devices. In addition to addressing the continuous demand for smaller, thinner camera phones, the ultra thin module solution is also proving popular in PC notebook applications where the camera module needs to be no thicker than the LCD housing. In October 2006, we introduced our sixth generation 1.3-megapixel CameraChip sensor based on our OmniPixel2 technology. Featuring a 2.0 x 2.0 pixel and 1/5-inch optical format, the OV9660 enables a 25% thinner camera module than the previous generation, meeting the requirements of ultra slim handset designs. Additionally, the smaller module size is especially attractive to handset makers because it allows a drop-in upgrade from VGA to 1.3 megapixels, thereby extending the life of existing VGA camera phone designs. In the emerging market for image sensors embedded in PC notebooks, we continue to win designs. We are supplying sensors to four of the top five notebook OEMs. Our shipments to notebook and standalone PC camera manufacturers continue to grow as services such as, AOL, Google, Skype and Yahoo are adding video capability to their conferencing software. The OV9660 also provides ultra-portable notebook manufacturers with the ability to upgrade to 1.3-megapixel cameras without the need for a costly system redesign by avoiding the size constraints which previously limited them to VGA resolution cameras. As the markets for image sensors have grown, we have experienced increasing competition from manufacturers of CMOS and CCD image sensors. Our principal competitors in the market for CMOS image sensors include MagnaChip, Micron, Samsung, ST Microelectronics and Toshiba. We expect to see continued price competition in the image sensor market for camera cell phones and digital cameras as those markets continue to grow. Although we believe that we currently compete effectively in those markets, our competitive position could be impaired by companies that have greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing and distribution resources, broader product lines, better access to large customer bases, greater name recognition, longer operating histories and more established strategic and financial relationships than we do. Such companies may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Many of these competitors own and operate their own fabrication facilities, which in certain circumstances may give them the ability to price their products more aggressively than we can or may allow them to respond more rapidly to changing market opportunities than we can. As a result of the increase in competition and the growth of various consumer-product applications for image sensors, we have experienced a shortening in the life cycle of some image-sensor products. For example, although in the security and surveillance market we continue to sell image sensors introduced more than four years ago, in the camera cell phone market, product life cycles can be as short as six months. The shortening of product life cycles combined with our 12-14 week production cycle makes it increasingly difficult to accurately forecast customer demand for or to predict the ramp of our products. As a result, we face the risk of being unable to fulfill customer orders if we underestimate market demand and the risks of excess inventory and product obsolescence if we overestimate market demand for our products. As a result, it is possible that we could suffer from shortages for certain products and build inventories in excess of demand for other products. We carefully consider the risk that our inventories may be excess to expected future demand and record appropriate reserves. If, as sometimes happens, we 5 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) are subsequently able to sell these reserved products, the sales have little or no associated cost and consequently they have a favorable impact on gross margins. The shortening of product life cycles also increases the importance of having short product development cycles and being accurate in the prediction of market trends in the design of new products. The reduction in product life cycles increases the importance of our continued investment in research and development, which we consider to be critical to our future success. In common with many other semiconductor products and in response to competitive pressures, the average selling prices, or ASPs, of image sensor products have declined steadily since their introduction, and we expect ASPs to continue to decline in the future. Accordingly, in order to maintain our gross margins, we and our suppliers have to work continuously to lower our manufacturing costs and increase our production yields, and in order to maintain or grow our revenues, we have to increase the number of units we sell by a large enough amount to offset the effect of declining ASPs. In fiscal 2007, ASPs declined more rapidly than we were able to reduce our manufacturing costs, and our gross margins declined. In addition, if we are unable to timely introduce new products that can take advantage of smaller process geometries or new products that incorporate more advanced technology and include more advanced features that can be sold at higher average selling prices, our gross margin will decline. Technology In August 2004, we announced the introduction of our OmniPixel technology. In September 2005, we announced the introduction of our OmniPixel2 architecture. The OmniPixel2 architecture, which is based on a 2.2µ x 2.2µ pixel and uses a 0.13µ process geometry, is less than half the size of the OmniPixel architecture introduced in 2004, but with improved performance. With the OmniPixel2 architecture, we significantly improved sensor performance in three key areas: the improved fill-factor and zero-gap micro-lens structure increased the sensor’s capacity to capture light; the sensor’s improved quantum efficiency improved its dynamic range, that is its capacity to capture widely differing light levels in a single image; and the capacity to rapidly adjust to changes in light levels. In February 2007, we introduced our first TrueFocus™ camera with Wavefront Coding™ technology for the mobile handset market. Our patented Wavefront Coding technology is a method of optically encoding light using a special lens to form an intermediate image on the sensor, and decoding this intermediate image with digital processing to create a picture that is in focus across virtually the entire image. TrueFocus offers true ‘point-and-shoot’ capability where the entire image is always in focus and always available for instant one-click capture in real time, with no waiting for the lens to focus. TrueFocus is designed to provide our customers with a product that effectively targets the mobile handset market by being small, durable, easy to manufacture and cost-competitive. In May 2007, we announced the introduction of the latest generation of our OmniPixel architecture, our OmniPixel3™ architecture. The OmniPixel3 architecture is based on a new 1.75 x 1.75 pixel and uses a 0.11 process geometry which further reduces the size of a given sensor array without any reduction in image quality. Given the rapidly changing nature of our technology, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter delays or other unexpected production or performance issues with future products. During the early stages of production, production yields and gross margins for products based on new technology are typically lower than those of established products. Product Design Mixed Analog/Digital Circuit and CMOS Image Sensor Design We have the in-house expertise to design complex analog and digital semiconductor circuits. This in-house expertise enables us to process video data in both analog and digital domains, which has allowed us to optimize each aspect of analog and digital chip design. Analog processing works directly with the original image signals without the loss of data that typically occurs in conversion to digital processing. Analog circuits require considerably less space, which means we can design smaller chips that have more functions but that still produce far less noise than is typically generated by the heat and cross talk found in digital circuits. Analog processing is the key for integrating all of the functions on a single chip, thereby taking advantage of the benefits of CMOS technology. We have also developed in-house expertise in the mixing of analog and digital signals in the same semiconductor design without suffering the common problems of interference from noise caused by heat or crosstalk. Our in-house semiconductor design engineers are skilled in the design of high speed, low power, mixed analog/digital image sensors with advanced pixel cell structures. We use advanced design techniques to develop high-speed, highly integrated 6 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) semiconductors which can be fabricated using standard CMOS processes. The result has been a combination of improved image quality coupled with a reduction in unwanted electrical noise. Advanced Image Processing With our acquisition of CDM Optics, Inc., or CDM, and its patented Wavefront Coding technology, we significantly expanded our proprietary technology. Wavefront Coding technology combines optics and electronics to significantly increase the depth of field of an image without changing the aperture of or reducing the amount of light reaching the lens and can eliminate the need for a mechanical auto-focus system. Wavefront Coding technology changes the phase of light as it traverses a specialized element in the lens and deliberately blurs all points in any image to an identical degree. Powerful algorithms then remove the system-dependent image blur to produce a sharp and clear image from the intermediate coded image. Products Our main products, image-sensing devices we refer to by the name CameraChip image sensors, are used to capture images electronically and are used in a number of consumer and commercial mass-market applications. Our products have a variety of features, including: Product Features CMOS CameraChip image sensors Color or black and white Resolutions CIF (352 x 288 pixels) to 5.17 megapixel (2560 x 2048 pixels) Output signal Analog for television, digital for computers and other digital devices Operating voltage 5 volt, 3 volt, 2.7 volt or 1.8 volt Optical lens/array size 1/18, 1/10, 1/9, 1/7, 1/6, 1/5, 1/4, 1/3 or 1/2 inch formats Interface chips For connecting to computers and other devices Software drivers: · Standard operating systems Linux®, Mac OS®, Windows® · Embedded systems Palm OS®, Symbian OS™, Windows CE™, Windows Embedded™ and Windows Mobile® We provide companion chips used to connect our CameraChip image sensors to various interfaces, including the universal serial bus, or USB, a connection which allows add-on devices to be connected to personal computers and other industry standard interfaces. In addition, we provide companion chips that perform compression in standardized still photo and digital video formats. We also design and develop standard software drivers for Microsoft Windows, Linux and Mac OS, as well as for embedded operating systems such as Windows Embedded, Windows CE, Windows Mobile, Symbian and Palm OS. These software drivers accept the image data being received from the USB, provide data decompression, if required, and manage interface protocols with the camera. We have designed these drivers for speed and flexibility and allow easy customization of the user interface. We do not record any revenue from this software, which we provide to our customers as an element of customer support. New Products In October 2005, we announced the OV2640 sensor, our first product on the OmniPixel2 architecture and the world’s first 2.0-megapixel sensor on a ¼ inch form factor. In addition to the features of the OmniPixel2 architecture, the OV2640 sensor also incorporates an advanced image signal processor called the OmniQSP™ system which provides high-grade picture processing and features traditionally found only in digital still cameras. In July 2006, we announced that the OV2640 sensor was in volume production. 7 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) In October 2005, we also announced the OV7950, an enhanced sensor designed specifically for the automotive market. The OV7950 offers several improvements including a dual dynamic overlay function allowing for both a dynamic and a static visual aid layer (text or graphics) within the image. This is especially useful for reference frames and guiding systems in backup and parking assist cameras for cars and trucks. In April 2006, we announced our second-generation, 5.17-megapixel camera chip. The OV5620 offers a small form-factor, 5.17-megapixel CMOS camera that we believe surpasses CCD sensors in performance. Furthermore, we believe the OV5620’s advanced high-definition, or HD, video modes with vivid colors make this CameraChip image sensor especially attractive for next generation DSCs, and hybrid cameras, which take both still and video pictures. In September 2006, we introduced the OV7720, a high sensitivity digital VGA CameraChip sensor designed specifically for security and surveillance applications. Unlike the sensors used in conventional analog security cameras, the new sensor produces high quality digital output and eliminates the need for A/D converters while simplifying post processing. The OV7720 is one of the first high performance sensors capable of running at 60 frames per second and delivers, we believe, exceptional low-light sensitivity and performance without sacrificing the speed required for advanced security applications. In September 2006, we also unveiled the new OV7949 advanced CMOS CameraChip sensor designed specifically for commercial CCTV/video monitoring security systems. The highly integrated, single-chip OV7949 video camera chip sensor is based on our proprietary OmniPixel architecture. The OV7949 combines a high level of functionality with a brand new design that we specifically engineered to operate extremely well in low-light conditions, a feature especially critical to indoor and night security monitoring systems. In October 2006, we announced the availability of our new all digital OV7710 CameraChip advanced CMOS image sensor developed specifically for automotive applications. The OV7710 is a highly integrated CMOS video camera that combines a high level of functionality with all digital output. Digital output is a key requirement for automotive machine-vision applications such as airbag deployment, lane departure warning, collision avoidance/pedestrian detection, windshield wiper control, and drowsiness detection. The OV7710 features a dual dynamic overlay function, which permits text or graphics within the image. In February 2007, in addition to the first TrueFocus camera described earlier, we announced the details of two other new products. The first was a 5.17-megapixel auto-focus camera module for mobile handsets based around the OV5623 CameraChip sensor. The new module provides the basis for high resolution cameras to enter the mainstream mobile handset market. Our introduction of the 5.17-megapixel camera module with auto-focus capability, a function previously associated only with DSCs and expensive camera phones, brings high image quality and camera performance closer to the mainstream camera phone market. We expect that our new 5.17-megapixel camera module will enable our handset customers to continue to move up the ‘megapixel curve’ in order to provide DSC-quality imaging on mass market camera phones. The second new product was the OV7680, a new 1/10 inch VGA CameraChip sensor designed for entry-level camera phones, for secondary cameras in 3G handsets, and for integrated notebook PC cameras. The new sensor incorporates a unique non-linear lens shift technology, which permits a reduction in the height of the camera module to just 3.17mm. In March 2007, we introduced the OV10620, our first color High Dynamic Range, or HDR, CMOS image sensor for mass market applications. The new OV10620 has the capacity to capture widely differing light levels in a single image and to rapidly adjust to changes in light levels, much like the human eye under quickly changing light conditions. The OV10620 rapidly switches to HDR mode to handle extreme variations of bright and dark conditions and automatically switches back to non-HDR mode when condition return to normal. The new single-chip sensor also has a spectral light sensitivity of up to 1,000 nm, which is near infrared sensitivity. In June 2007, we introduced the OV3640, the first fully integrated 3.2-megapixel CameraChip sensor in a ¼-inch format. Based on the new 1.75-micron OmniPixel3™ architecture, the OV3640 is small enough to fit the standard 8 x 8 mm sockets used in 2.0-megapixel camera phones, making it an ideal drop-in upgrade for existing handset designs. The highly integrated OV3640 features a high-speed two-lane mobile industry processor interface, or MIPI, to enable the fast transfer of large blocks of data, which is critical to making effective use of increased camera resolutions. In addition, the new sensor incorporates advanced image signal processing and onboard JPEG compression to allow existing baseband processors without MIPI to support a camera upgrade to 3.2 megapixels at 8 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) 15 frames per second in full resolution. In addition to MIPI, the OV3640 also incorporates advanced image stabilization functionality similar to that used in DSC and camcorder products. Strategic Investments and Acquisitions Joint Venture with TSMC In October 2003, we entered into a Shareholders’ Agreement, or the VisEra Agreement, with TSMC pursuant to which we agreed with TSMC to form VisEra Technologies Company, Ltd., or VisEra, a joint venture in Taiwan. VisEra’s mission is to provide back-end manufacturing services. In connection with the formation of VisEra, both TSMC and we entered into separate nonexclusive license agreements with VisEra pursuant to which each party licenses certain intellectual property to VisEra relating to manufacturing services. The VisEra Agreement also provided that once VisEra had acquired the capability to deliver high quality manufacturing services, we would be committed to direct a substantial portion of our requirements in these areas to VisEra, subject to pricing and technology requirements. Both TSMC and we have also committed not to compete directly or indirectly with VisEra in the provision of certain manufacturing services. Historically, we have relied upon TSMC to provide us with a substantial proportion of our wafers. As a part of the VisEra Agreement, TSMC agreed to commit substantial wafer manufacturing capacity to us in exchange for our commitment to purchase a substantial portion of our wafers from TSMC, subject to pricing and technology requirements. In August 2005, we entered into an Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Agreement with TSMC, or the Amended VisEra Agreement, under which the parties reaffirmed their respective commitments to VisEra, expanded the scope of and made minor modifications to the VisEra Agreement. Under the Amended VisEra Agreement, the parties agreed to raise the total capital committed to the joint venture from $50.0 million to $68.0 million. The $18.0 million increase was designated principally for the acquisition from unrelated existing shareholders of approximately 29.6% of the issued share capital of XinTec, of which we directly owned approximately 7.8% at that time. In fiscal 2006, VisEra invested an additional $0.5 million and we invested an additional $130,000 in XinTec as our portion of an additional capital injection to enable XinTec to expand its production capacity. As a result of the increase in our beneficial interest in XinTec due to VisEra’s investment in XinTec during fiscal 2006, we accounted for our investment in XinTec under the equity method. In January 2007, TSMC through the purchase of approximately 90.5 million previously unissued shares, acquired a controlling interest in XinTec. As a result of TSMC’s investment, our ownership percentage in XinTec declined from 7.8% to 4.4% and VisEra’s ownership percentage declined from 29.6% to 16.9%. Due to the reduction in our ownership percentage in XinTec and the deconsolidation of VisEra described below, effective January 1, 2007, we began to account for our interest in XinTec under the cost method. As a result of the additional investment that TSMC and we made in VisEra under the Amended VisEra Agreement, TSMC’s and our interest each increased from 25% to 43%, and consequently we re-evaluated our accounting for VisEra in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003), or FIN 46(R), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.” We concluded that, as a result of our step acquisition of VisEra and because substantially all of the activities of VisEra either involve or are conducted on our behalf, VisEra was a variable interest entity. Since we were the source of virtually all of VisEra’s revenues, we had a decisive influence over VisEra’s profitability. Accordingly, we considered ourselves to be the primary beneficiary of the joint venture, and in the quarter which ended in October 2005, we began to include VisEra’s financial results in our consolidated financial statements. In the quarter ended January 2006, we increased our interest in VisEra from 43% to 46% through purchases of unissued shares. In January 2006, pursuant to the Amended VisEra Agreement, VisEra purchased from TSMC the equipment used for applying color filers and micro-lenses to wafers, and VisEra is now providing the related processing services that we previously purchased from TSMC. In November 2006, we invested $6.1 million in VisEra as our portion of an additional cash or asset contribution to be made by TSMC and us under the then current Amended VisEra Agreement. Effective January 1, 2007, by mutual agreement, we assumed responsibility for the logistics management services previously provided to us by VisEra. As a consequence, we concluded that we had lost our status as the primary beneficiary of the joint venture and VisEra had ceased to be a variable interest entity (“VIE”) as defined under FIN 46(R). As a result, we deconsolidated VisEra as of the date of the change. As a consequence of the deconsolidation, effective January 1, 2007, we account for our investment in VisEra under the equity method. The deconsolidation of VisEra did not have a material effect on our reported revenue or reported net income for fiscal 2007. See Note 5 – “Long-term Investments” to our consolidated financial statements. 9 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) In January 2007, we and TSMC also signed an amendment to the Amended VisEra Agreement to provide for an increase in VisEra’s manufacturing capacity. Under the amendment, we and TSMC each made an additional $27.0 million investment in VisEra in April 2007. This investment is part of an ongoing capacity expansion program at VisEra. All other material terms of the Amended VisEra Agreement remain in effect. Joint Venture with PSC In May 2004, we entered into an agreement with PSC, to establish SOI as a joint venture. The purpose of SOI is to conduct manufacturing, marketing and selling of certain of our legacy products. In connection with the establishment of SOI, we have agreed to enter into manufacturing and other agreements as appropriate with PSC. In March 2005, we assumed control of the board of directors of SOI and we have consolidated SOI since April 30, 2005. In July 2006, SOI declared a cash dividend of $482,000, of which we received $237,000 when the cash dividend was paid in August 2006. SOI also issued shares to its employees in July 2006, with an estimated fair value of $459,000 which caused our ownership percentage to decline from 49.0% to 46.6%. In April 2007, SOI became listed on the TGSM. The TGSM is the approximate equivalent in Taiwan of the Over-The-Counter market in the United States. In conjunction with the TGSM listing, various employees of SOI exercised their options and increased the number of shares outstanding, which caused our ownership percentage to decline to 45.4% as of April 30, 2007. See Note 18 – “Related Party Transactions” to our consolidated financial statements. Acquisition of CDM In April 2005, we completed the acquisition of CDM. CDM is located in Boulder, Colorado. CDM is the exclusive licensee from an affiliate of the University of Colorado of a patented technology, known as Wavefront Coding technology that increases the performance of an imaging system by substantially increasing the depth of field and/or correcting optical aberrations within the image. We expect that it will significantly reduce the size and complexity of the auto-focus function on future camera modules utilizing OmniVision sensors. Because the image is always in focus, Wavefront Coding technology also eliminates the time-delay inherent in conventional auto or manually focused camera systems. The closing consideration for the acquisition consisted of $10.0 million in cash and approximately 515,000 shares of our common stock. Approximately 147,000 of these shares were retained as security for certain indemnities given by the sellers. In the quarter ended October 31, 2006, we increased “Goodwill” related to our acquisition of CDM by $2.6 million. The increase was partially related to a put option that expired during the quarter with respect to the 147,000 CDM escrow shares. The escrow shares were puttable back to us at a premium and 145,000 shares were put to us for cash totaling $2.8 million. Additionally, the value of the initial shares that were issued in April 2005 as part of the CDM acquisition were also increased due to a put option that expired unexercised subsequent to the original issuance of the shares. Both amounts should have been recorded as part of the initial acquisition of CDM. We are also obligated to pay an additional $10.0 million in cash upon the sale, prior to the end of April 2009, of a pre-determined number of revenue-producing products incorporating CDM’s technology. Industry Background Image Sensor Technologies Digital imaging enables the capture of still or moving images without the use of photographic, or chemical-based films. The two most common electronic image sensors, both developed in the late 1960s, are CCD and CMOS image sensors. Both sensors are silicon-based semiconductor devices that convert light to an electric charge for display or storage. CMOS image sensors are typically less expensive to produce and consume significantly less power than CCDs, but the quality of early CMOS image sensors lagged behind that of CCDs. Owing to their historically superior image quality, CCDs became a standard for digital imaging and have been used in a wide variety of applications ranging from video camcorders to numerous industrial and scientific applications. Until a few years ago, CMOS image sensors were primarily used for relatively lower-cost applications, such as PC video cameras, for which high image quality was not a priority. In recent years, advances in semiconductor manufacturing processes and design techniques have led to improvements in CMOS image sensor performance and image quality, resulting in smaller circuits and better current 10 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) control, making it possible to design CMOS image sensors that provide image quality comparable to that of CCDs of comparable resolution. As a result, CMOS image sensors have become a compelling alternative to CCDs for a wide range of uses, particularly in consumer photography and new camera market segments, such as camera-equipped cell phones, security and surveillance systems, toys and interactive video game consoles, laptop computers, and automotive applications, where high image quality, low power consumption, small size and low cost are important considerations. CMOS Sensors versus CCD Sensors One of the critical differences between CCD and CMOS image sensors is the way in which each processes an electrical charge, or a signal. Cameras employing CCDs require an additional integrated circuit called an analog-to-digital converter, or ADC, to convert a signal from analog to digital format. In contrast, image sensors based on the CMOS manufacturing process are able to integrate a number of functions on one device, enabling all of the conversion circuitry to be incorporated in a single sensor chip. This high level of integration reduces the overall number of components and system complexity, and reduces the space required for them. Market Opportunity Demand for CMOS image sensors for use in camera cell phones continued to account for a substantial portion of our revenue in fiscal 2007. Other applications and markets that we are currently serving or that are developing include embedded applications for personal computers, security and surveillance, toys and interactive video game consoles, and automotive and medical applications. As device manufacturers become increasingly aware of the numerous advantages associated with single chip CMOS image sensor solutions, such as high image quality, accelerated time to market, efficient design and manufacturability, smaller size, lower power consumption and reduced cost, we believe these markets offer significant additional opportunities for mass-market applications for CMOS image sensors. Customers We sell directly to OEMs and VARs and indirectly through distributors. OEMs include branded camera device manufacturers and contract manufacturers. During fiscal 2007, we shipped approximately 250 million CameraChip image sensors, as compared to approximately 150 million CameraChip image sensors in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2007, we derived approximately 60% of our revenues from OEMs and VARs and approximately 40% of our revenues through distributors. The one OEM customer that accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2007 was the Foxconn Technology Group, or Foxconn, which accounted for approximately 14.0% of our revenues. The two distributors that accounted for 10% or more of our revenues in fiscal 2007 were World Peace Industrial Group, or World Peace, and SiDa Electronics (Hong Kong) Co., Limited, or SiDa Electronics, which accounted for approximately 15.1% and 12.9% of our revenues, respectively. No other OEM, VAR or distributor accounted for 10% or more of our fiscal 2007 revenues. Sales and Marketing We sell our products through a direct sales force and indirectly through distributors. As of April 30, 2007, our sales and marketing organization had a total of 168 full-time employees. We also have ten independent distributors, eight of which are located outside the United States. Sales outside of the United States represented approximately 99% of our revenues in fiscal 2005, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007. We expect that sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a very large proportion of our revenues and in certain markets, it is more cost-effective for us to sell to certain customers through distributors who often have more sales coverage than we do and assume responsibility for logistics, collections, product returns and customer support. In addition to our standard product marketing, we also participate in tradeshows and other industry events to promote our CameraChip solutions. Research and Development We have designed the internal structure of our CMOS CameraChip image sensors in a modular fashion. The major functions, such as image capture, image sensor control logic, color processing, analog output, digital output and programming control, are stand-alone circuits that we can rapidly modify for use in new product developments. We design circuit improvements so that we can transfer them readily to other CameraChip products to help reduce total development time and cost for new products. As of April 30, 2007, we had a total of 340 full-time employees 11 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) in research and development. Research, development and related expenses for fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007 were approximately, $25.5 million $40.6 million and $67.6 million, respectively. Intellectual Property Our success and future revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect various aspects of our CameraChip image sensors. As of April 30, 2007, we have been issued 74 United States patents which expire between October 2015 and August 2025. We have also received 79 foreign patents which expire between October 2015 and December 2025. As of April 30, 2007, we have 75 additional United States patent applications pending, of which two have been allowed, and we have filed 239 foreign patent applications, of which 17 have been allowed. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims with respect to such matters as patents and other actions arising out of the normal course of business. It is possible that companies might pursue litigation with respect to any claims such companies purport to have against us. The results of any litigation are inherently uncertain. In the event of an adverse result in any litigation with respect to intellectual property rights relevant to our products that could arise in the future, we could be required to obtain licenses to the infringed technology, pay substantial damages under applicable law, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully infringed, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products or expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, even if we ultimately prevail. Litigation frequently involves substantial expenditures and can require significant management attention. Manufacturing Wafer Fabrication Our semiconductor products are fabricated using standard CMOS processes, which permit us to engage independent wafer foundries to manufacture our semiconductors. We outsource our wafer manufacturing for CameraChip image sensors to TSMC and PSC. Our CameraChip image sensors are currently fabricated using a standard process at 0.11µ, 0.13µ, 0.18µ, 0.25µ, 0.50µ and 0.60µ. In addition, TSMC and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, or SMIC, fabricate our companion DSP and interface chips. Color Filter Application A majority of our fiscal 2007 CameraChip image sensor sales were color CameraChip image sensors, which, in addition to a micro-lens, require a color filter to be applied to the wafer before packaging. The color filter application uses a series of masks to place red, green and blue dyes on the individual pixels in an industry-standard Bayer pattern. In the final step, a micro lens is applied to each pixel. We outsource these manufacturing steps to VisEra. Wafer Probe Testing Wafers that are designated for chip-on-board, or COB, packaging are tested using a process called wafer probe testing. We outsource wafer probe testing to King Yuan Electronics Co., Ltd., or KYEC, Winstek Semiconductor Corp., or Winstek, and VisEra. Packaging In the case of chip-scale packaged or CSP products, after wafer fabrication, color filter application if required, and micro-lens application, the wafers are packaged and then diced into chips. With the exception of CSP products, the wafers are diced first and then packaged. Our products are designed to use standard packaging that is widely used for optical sensor chips. These packages have a glass lid to allow light to pass through to the image sensor array. For our higher-priced product lines, we rely on Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, or ASE, Chipbond Technology Corporation and ImPac Technology Co., Ltd., or ImPac, an investee company, for substantially all of our ceramic chip packaging. We rely on ImPac for our plastic chip packaging and on XinTec, another investee company, for the large majority of our CSP products, which are generally designed for the smallest form factor applications. 12 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) Final Testing High volume final product testing is a critical element of the production of CameraChip image sensors and is a substantial barrier to entry for potential competitors. Production final testing instruments designed for conventional CMOS devices are not sufficient for testing image sensors, because an optical image must be captured and checked in addition to checking the standard logic and electrical functions. We are currently in the process of installing new high-throughput automated final test equipment built to our specifications at our testing facility in Shanghai, China. The new testers have automated handling capability, a lighting and lens system, a changeable image source and automated output sorting by functionality. The system is programmable so that testing criteria and methodology can be changed easily to accommodate new products or special testing requirements. Product Quality Assurance We focus on product quality through all stages of the design and manufacturing process. We submit all our designs to in-depth circuit simulation before we commit them to silicon. Before we commit a new product to production, we fabricate test wafers, package test chips and test the final product. We keep initial production runs to a minimum until sufficient products have completed the entire manufacturing and testing process and are delivered to and approved by customers. We commit to full production runs after final customer approval. We qualify each of our subcontractors through a series of industry standard environmental product stress tests, as well as through an audit and an analysis of the subcontractor’s quality system and manufacturing capability. We also participate in quality and reliability monitoring through each stage of the production cycle by reviewing electrical parametric data from our foundries and other subcontractors. Competition We operate in an industry characterized by intense competition, rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, declining average selling prices and rapid product obsolescence. Our competition both comes from CMOS and CCD image sensor manufacturers: · CMOS Image Sensor Manufacturers. Image sensor manufacturers using CMOS technology include a number of well established companies such as Kodak, MagnaChip, Micron, Matsushita, Samsung, Sony, STMicroelectronics and Toshiba. In addition, we compete with a large number of smaller CMOS manufacturers including Foveon, PixArt, Pixelplus and Pixim. · CCD Image Sensor Manufacturers. Image sensor manufacturers using CCD technology include a number of well-established companies, particularly vertically integrated camcorder and high-resolution digital still camera manufacturers. Our main competition from CCD manufacturers comes from Fuji, Kodak, Matsushita, NEC, Sanyo, Sharp, Sony, Texas Instruments and Toshiba. Our competitors include many large domestic and international companies that have greater presence in key markets, greater access to advanced wafer foundry capacity, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, better access to large customer bases, greater name recognition, longer operating histories and more established strategic and financial relationships than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. We believe that the principal factors affecting our competition in our markets include relationships with key OEMs that incorporate image sensors into mass-market applications, relationships with key distributors, relationships with semiconductor foundries and other participants in the semiconductor manufacturing chain, time to market, quality, total system design cost, product performance, customer support and supplier reputation. We believe that we compete effectively with respect to these factors. Backlog Sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders. Our backlog includes only accepted customer orders with assigned shipment dates within the upcoming 12 months. As of April 30, 2006 and 2007, our backlog was approximately $134.5 million and $149.6 million, respectively. The increase in our backlog reflects the fact that with product in relatively short supply as compared to a year ago, customers need to place purchase orders farther in 13 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) advance of shipments than they did in the prior period. Our current backlog is subject to changes in delivery schedules, and may not necessarily be an indication of future revenue. Employees As of April 30, 2007 we had a total of 2,064 full-time employees, 336 located in the U.S. and 1,728 located in China, Finland, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and the United Kingdom, with approximately 1,600 of these employees located in China. Most of the increase from the prior year occurred in China and Taiwan to staff our expanded test, logistics and research activities. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and management personnel. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced any work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good. Financial Information About Geographic Areas For information about revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region/country, see Note 16 — “Segment and Geographic Information” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Executive Officers and Directors of the Registrant The following persons are our executive officers as of the date of this report: Name Age Position Shaw Hong 69 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Xinping He 44 Chief Operating Officer and Director Peter V. Leigh 62 Chief Financial Officer Y. Vicky Chou 44 Vice President of Legal and General Counsel Dr. John T. Yue 60 Vice President of Quality and Reliability Anson Chan 38 Vice President of Finance Shaw Hong, one of our cofounders, has served as one of our directors and as our Chief Executive Officer and President since May 1995. Mr. Hong holds a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Jiao Tong University in China and an M.S. degree in electrical engineering from Oregon State University. Xinping He has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2006. From February 2003 to August 2006, Mr. He served as our Senior Vice President of Engineering. Mr. He joined our company in June 1995 and served as a senior design engineer until his promotion to design manager in July 1998. From August 2001 until February 2003, Mr. He served as our Vice President of Core Technology. In November 2006, our board of directors appointed Mr. He as a member of the board of directors as a Class II director. Mr. He holds a B.S. degree and an M.S. degree in electrical engineering from Tsinghua University in Beijing. Peter V. Leigh has served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2004. From September 2004 to February 2007, Mr. Leigh also served as our Vice President of Finance. From December 2002 to September 2004, Mr. Leigh was self-employed as a consultant to a technology company. From November 1995 to December 2002, Mr. Leigh served as Chief Financial Officer of Metron Technology, Inc., a global provider of materials and services to the semiconductor industry. From 1992 to 1995, Mr. Leigh was Chief Financial Officer of Liposome Technology, a bio-pharmaceutical company. From 1982 to 1992, Mr. Leigh served as Corporate Controller of Bio-Rad Laboratories, a multi-national manufacturer of research chemistry products, clinical diagnostics and analytical instruments. Mr. Leigh holds an M.B.A. degree from the Harvard Business School and a B.A. degree in economics from Oxford University. Y. Vicky Chou has served as our Vice President of Legal and General Counsel since June 2003. From February 2003 to June 2003, Ms. Chou served as our Corporate Counsel. From August 1999 to January 2003, Ms. Chou was an attorney at Heller Ehrman White & McAuliffe LLP. From June 1997 to July 1999, Ms. Chou was an attorney/corporate specialist at Coudert Brothers LLP. Ms. Chou received a B.S. degree in anthropology from Temple University, an M.B.A. degree from St. Joseph’s University and a J.D. degree from Santa Clara University. 14 ITEM 1. BUSINESS — (Continued) Dr. John T. Yue has served as our Vice President of Quality and Reliability since February 2005. From September 1999 to February 2005, Dr. Yue was employed by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) where he served as Vice President of Quality and Reliability from September 1999 to June 2002 and as Vice President of Technology with the company’s North America operations from July 2002 to February 2005. Prior to joining TSMC, Dr. Yue was employed for 17 years by Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) where he held various positions, including Director of Reliability and Quality in the Corporate Quality Division and was an AMD fellow. Prior to AMD, Dr. Yue held management positions at National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments. He holds a Ph.D. and an M.S. degree in physics from Stanford University, a B.S. degree in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and an M.B.A. degree from Southern Methodist University. Anson Chan has served as our Vice President of Finance since February 2007. From July 2006 to February 2007, Mr. Chan served as our Vice President of Business Strategy. From September 1997 to July 2006, Mr. Chan served in various positions with PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an independent public accounting firm, most recently as a Senior Manager. Mr. Chan holds a B.S. degree in economics and a B.S. degree in engineering from the University of Pennsylvania and an M.B.A. degree in business strategy and operations management from the University of Chicago. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause our future business, financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from our historical results or currently anticipated results, including those set forth below. Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition in our markets from more established CMOS and CCD image sensor manufacturers, and if we are unable to compete successfully we may not be able to maintain or grow our business. The image sensor market is intensely competitive, and we expect competition in this industry to continue to increase. This competition has resulted in rapid technological change, evolving standards, reductions in product selling prices and rapid product obsolescence. If we are unable to successfully meet these competitive challenges, we may be unable to maintain and grow our business. Any inability on our part to compete successfully would also adversely affect our results of operations and impair our financial condition. Our image-sensor products face competition from other companies that sell CMOS image sensors and from companies that sell CCD image sensors. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater presence in key markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, more established strategic and financial relationships and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. Many of them also have their own manufacturing facilities which may give them a competitive advantage. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and customer requirements or devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products. Our competitors include established CMOS image sensor manufacturers such as Kodak, MagnaChip, Micron, Matsushita, Samsung, Sony, STMicroelectronics and Toshiba as well as CCD image sensor manufacturers such as Fuji, Kodak, Matsushita, NEC, Sanyo, Sharp, Sony, Texas Instruments and Toshiba. Many of these competitors own and operate their own fabrication facilities, which in certain circumstances may give them the ability to price their products more aggressively than we can or may allow them to respond more rapidly than we can to changing market opportunities. In addition, we compete with a large number of smaller CMOS manufacturers including Foveon, PixArt and Pixelplus and Pixim. Competition with these and other companies has required, and in the future may require, us to reduce our prices. For instance, we have seen increased competition in the markets for VGA image sensor products with resulting pressures on product pricing. Downward pressure on pricing could result both in decreased revenues and lower gross margins, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our competitors may acquire or enter into strategic or commercial agreements or arrangements with foundries or providers of color filter processing, assembly or packaging services. These strategic arrangements between our competitors and third party service providers could involve preferential or exclusive arrangements for our competitors. Such strategic alliances could impair our ability to secure sufficient capacity from foundries and service 15 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) providers to meet our demand for wafer manufacturing, color filter processing, assembly or packaging services, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer demand for our products. In addition, competitors may enter into exclusive relationships with distributors, which could reduce available distribution channels for our products and impair our ability to sell our products and grow our business. Further, some of our customers could also become developers of image sensors, and this could potentially adversely affect our results of operations, business and prospects. Declines in our average selling prices may result in declines in our revenues and may further reduce our gross margins. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience pressure to reduce the selling prices of our products, and our average selling prices have declined as a result. Competition in our product markets is intense and as this competition continues to intensify, we anticipate that these pricing pressures will increase. We expect that the average selling prices for many of our products will continue to decline over time. Unless we can increase unit sales sufficiently to offset these declines in our average selling prices, our revenues will decline. Our low average selling prices have adversely affected our gross margins, and unless we can reduce manufacturing costs to compensate, additional reductions in our average selling prices will continue to adversely affect our gross margins and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and impair our financial condition. We have increased and intend to continue to increase our research, development and related expenses to continue the development of new image sensor products in fiscal years 2008 and 2009 that can be sold at higher selling prices and/or manufactured at lower cost. However, if we are unable to timely introduce new products that incorporate more advanced technology and include more advanced features that can be sold at higher average selling prices, or if we are unable to successfully develop more cost-effective technologies, our financial results could be adversely affected. Sales of our image-sensor products for camera cell phones account for a large portion of our revenues, and any decline in sales to the camera cell phone market or failure of this market to continue to grow as expected could adversely affect our results of operations. Sales to the camera cell phone market account for a large portion of our revenues. Although we can only estimate the percentages of our products that are used in the camera cell phone market due to the significant number of our image-sensor products that are sold to module makers or through distributors and VARs, we believe that the camera cell phone market accounted for approximately 70% and 80% of our revenues in fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007, respectively. We expect that revenues from sales of our image-sensor products to the camera cell phone market will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues during fiscal 2008 and beyond. Any factors adversely affecting the demand for our image sensors in this market could cause our business to suffer and adversely affect our operating results. The digital image sensor market for camera cell phones is extremely competitive, and we expect to face increased competition in this market in the future. In addition, we believe the market for camera cell phones is also relatively concentrated and the top five producers account for more than 80% of the annual sales of these products. If we do not continue to achieve design wins with key camera cell phone manufacturers, our market share or revenues could decrease. The camera cell phone image sensor market is also subject to rapid technological change. In order to compete successfully in this market, we will have to correctly forecast customer demand for technological improvements and be able to deliver such products on a timely basis at competitive prices. If we fail to do this, our results of operations, business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced problems accurately forecasting customer demand in other markets. If our sales to the camera cell phone market do not increase and/or the camera cell phone market does not grow as expected, our results of operations, business and prospects would be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends on the timely development, introduction, marketing and selling of new CMOS image sensors, which we might not be able to achieve. Our failure to successfully develop new products that achieve market acceptance in a timely fashion would adversely affect our ability to grow our business and our operating results. The development, introduction and market acceptance of new products is critical to our ability to sustain and grow our business. Any failure to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. The development of new products is highly complex, and we have in the past experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. From time to time, we have also encountered unexpected manufacturing problems as we increase the production of new products. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, and again in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the back-end yields on two of our advanced products were significantly below where we planned, and our gross margins were adversely impacted. As our 16 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) products integrate new and more advanced functions, they become more complex and increasingly difficult to design and debug. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors, including: · accurate prediction of market requirements and evolving standards, including pixel resolution, output interface standards, power requirements, optical lens size, input standards and operating systems for personal computers and other platforms; · development of advanced technologies and capabilities; · definition, timely completion and introduction of new CMOS image sensors that satisfy customer requirements; · development of products that maintain a technological advantage over the products of our competitors, including our advantages with respect to the functionality and pixel capability of our image-sensor products and our proprietary testing processes; and · market acceptance of the new products. Accomplishing all of these steps is difficult, time consuming and expensive. We may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in time to capture market opportunities or achieve significant or sustainable acceptance in new and existing markets. In addition, our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a rapid change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or the reduced life cycles of consumer products. Design wins are a key determinant of future revenues, and failure to obtain design wins has in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our revenues and impair our ability to grow our business. Our past success has been, and our future success is, dependent upon manufacturers designing our image-sensor products into their products. To achieve design wins, which are decisions by manufacturers to design our products into their systems, we must define and deliver cost effective and innovative image-sensor solutions on a timely basis that satisfy the manufacturers’ requirements. Our ability to achieve design wins is subject to numerous risks including competitive pressures as well as technological risks. If we do not achieve a design win with a prospective customer, it may be difficult to sell our image-sensor products to such prospective customer in the future because once a manufacturer has designed a supplier’s products into its systems, the manufacturer may be reluctant to change its source of components due to the significant costs, time, effort and risk associated with qualifying a new supplier. Accordingly, if we fail to achieve design wins with key device manufacturers that embed image sensors in their products, our market share or revenues could decrease. Furthermore, to the extent that our competitors secure design wins, our ability to expand our business in the future will be impaired. We depend on a limited number of third party wafer foundries, which reduces our ability to control our manufacturing process. Unlike some of our larger competitors, we do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Instead, we rely on TSMC, PSC and other subcontract foundries to produce all of our wafers. Historically, we have relied on TSMC to provide us with a substantial majority of our wafers. As a part of our joint venture agreement with TSMC, TSMC has agreed to commit substantial wafer manufacturing capacity to us in exchange for our commitment to purchase a substantial portion of our wafers from TSMC, subject to pricing and technology requirements. In addition, we recently entered into a foundry manufacturing agreement with PSC pursuant to which we and PSC have agreed to jointly develop certain pixel-related process technology and for PSC to process certain of our CMOS image sensors at PSC’s facilities in accordance with the scheduled development approved by both parties. Under the terms of these supply agreements, we secure manufacturing capacity in any particular period on a purchase order basis. The foundries have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. In general, our reliance on third party foundries involves a number of significant risks, including: · reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields and production costs; · lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply; · unavailability of, or delayed access to, next generation or key process technologies; and 17 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) · financial difficulties or disruptions in the operations of third party foundries due to causes beyond our control. If TSMC, PSC, or any of our other foundries were unable to continue manufacturing our wafers in the required volumes, at acceptable quality, yields and costs, or in a timely manner, we would have to identify and qualify substitute foundries, which would be time consuming and difficult, and could increase our costs or result in unforeseen manufacturing problems. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases we may be required to pay increased amounts for manufacturing services. We are also exposed to additional risks if we transfer our production of semiconductors from one foundry to another, as such transfer could interrupt our manufacturing process. Further, some of our foundries may also be developers of image sensor products and if one or more of our other foundries were to decide not to fabricate our companion DSP chips for competitive or other reasons, we would have to identify and qualify other sources for these products. We rely on a joint venture company for color filter application and on third party service providers for packaging services, which reduces our control over delivery schedules, product quality and cost, and could adversely affect our ability to deliver products to customers. We rely on VisEra, our joint venture with TSMC, for the color filter processing of our completed wafers. In addition, we rely on ASE and ImPac for substantially all of our ceramic chip packages. We also rely on ImPac, our equity investee, for our plastic chip packages. We rely on XinTec, another investee company, and China Wafer Level CSP, Ltd. for chip scale packages, which are generally used in our products designed for the smallest form factor applications. We currently have plans to expand color filter processing capacity at VisEra and with these service providers. If for any reason one or more of these service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide color filter processing or packaging services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our products to our customers could be severely impaired. We would have to identify and qualify substitute service providers, which could be time consuming and difficult and could result in unforeseen operational problems. Substitute service providers might not be available or, if available, might be unwilling or unable to offer services on acceptable terms. In addition, if competition for color filter processing or packaging capacity increases, we may be required to pay or invest significant amounts to secure access to these services, which could adversely impact our operating results. The number of companies that provide these services is limited and some of them have limited operating histories and financial resources. In the event our current providers refuse or are unable to continue to provide these services to us, we may be unable to procure services from alternate service providers. Furthermore, if customer demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Moreover, our reliance on a limited number of third party service providers to provide color filter processing services subjects us to reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. This lack of control may cause unforeseen product shortages or may increase our costs of manufacturing, assembling or testing of our products, which would adversely affect our operating results. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results have caused volatility in the market price of our common stock and make it difficult to predict our future operating results. Our quarterly operating results have varied significantly from quarter-to-quarter in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors and other industry risks, many of which are more fully discussed in our other risk factors, include, but are not limited to: · the volume and mix of our product sales; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products; · our ability to achieve acceptable wafer manufacturing or back-end processing yields; · our gain or loss of a large customer; · our ability to manage our product transitions; 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) · the availability of production capacity at the suppliers that manufacture our products or components of our products; · the growth of the market for products and applications using CMOS image sensors; · the timing and size of orders from our customers; · the volume of our product returns; · the seasonal nature of customer demand for our products; · the deferral of customer orders in anticipation of new products, product designs or enhancements; · the announcement and introduction of products and technologies by our competitors; · the level of our operating expenses; and · the increased volatility of our effective tax rate as a consequence of our adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 48, or FIN 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” Our introduction of new products and our product mix have affected and may continue to affect our quarterly operating results. Changes in our product mix could adversely affect our operating results, because some products provide higher margins than others. We typically experience lower yields when manufacturing new products through the initial production phase, and consequently our gross margins on new products have historically been lower than our gross margins on our more established products. We also anticipate that the rate of orders from our customers may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and our inventory levels are based on our expectations of future revenues. Consequently, if we do not achieve the revenues we expect in any quarter, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter, and potentially future quarters, may be harmed. All of these factors are difficult to forecast and could result in fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our operating results in a given quarter could be substantially less than anticipated, and, if we fail to meet market analysts’ expectations, a substantial decline in our stock price could result. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could adversely affect the price of our common stock in a manner unrelated to our long-term operating performance. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations which may in turn cause fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period. Many of the products using our image sensors, such as camera cell phones, digital still cameras and cameras for toys and games, are consumer electronics goods. These mass-market camera devices generally have seasonal cycles which historically have caused the sales of our customers to fluctuate quarter-to-quarter. Historically, demand from OEMs and distributors that serve such consumer product markets has been stronger in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year and weaker in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, since a very large number of the manufacturers who use our products are located in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, the pattern of demand for our image sensors has been increasingly influenced by the timing of the extended lunar or Chinese New Year holiday, a period in which the factories which use our image sensors generally close. For example, we believe that the decline in revenues that we experienced in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 is partly attributable to the fact that Chinese New Year occurred this year in mid-February, and manufacturing did not resume in full until sometime in March. Problems with wafer manufacturing and/or back-end processing yields could result in higher product costs and could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. If the foundries manufacturing the wafers used in our products cannot achieve the yields we expect, we will incur higher per unit costs and reduced product availability. Foundries that supply our wafers have experienced problems in the past achieving acceptable wafer manufacturing yields. Wafer yields are a function both of our design technology and the particular foundry’s manufacturing process technology. Certain risks are inherent in the introduction of such new products and technology. Low yields may result from design errors or manufacturing failures in new or existing products. During the early stages of production, production yields for new products are typically lower than those of established products. Unlike many other semiconductor products, optical products can 19 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) be effectively tested only when they are complete. Accordingly, we perform final testing of our products only after they are assembled. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until our products are well into the production process. The risks associated with low yields could be increased because we rely on third party offshore foundries for our wafers, which can increase the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. In addition to wafer manufacturing yields, our products are subject to yield loss in subsequent manufacturing steps, often referred to as back-end processing, such as the application of color filters and micro-lenses, dicing (cutting the wafer into individual devices, or die) and packaging. Any of these potential problems with wafer manufacturing and/or back-end processing yields could result in a reduction in our gross margins and/or our ability to timely deliver products to customers, which could adversely affect our customer relations and make it more difficult to sustain and grow our business. For example, low back-end yields on two of our products adversely impacted our gross margins for the fiscal quarters ended April 30, 2005, July 31, 2005 and October 31, 2005. If we do not forecast customer demand correctly, our business could be impaired and our stock price may decline. Our sales are generally made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments; however, we manufacture products and build inventory based on our estimates of customer demand. Accordingly, we must rely on multiple assumptions to forecast customer demand. We are continually working to improve our sales forecasting procedures. If we overestimate customer demand, we may manufacture products that we may be unable to sell, or we may have to sell to other customers at lower prices. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our customers may cancel or defer orders at any time by mutual written consent. We have experienced problems with accurately forecasting customer demand in the past. For example there was a shift in the mix of product demand, in particular a shift in demand towards VGA products late in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, and as a result our inventories at the end of the second and third quarters were higher than we intended them to be. We are required to accurately predict customer demand because we must often make commitments to have products manufactured before we receive firm purchase orders from our customers. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand, we may be unable to manufacture sufficient products quickly enough to meet actual demand, causing us to lose customers and impairing our ability to grow our business. In preparation for new product introductions, we gradually ramp down production of established products. With our 12-14 week production cycle, it is extremely difficult to predict precisely how many units of established products we will need. It is also difficult to accurately predict the speed of the ramp of our new products and the impact on inventory levels presented by the shorter life cycles of end-user products. The shorter product life cycle is a result of an increase in competition and the growth of various consumer-product applications for image sensors. For example, although in the security and surveillance market we continue to sell image-sensor products introduced more than four years ago, in the camera cell phone market, the product life cycle of image sensors can be as little as six months. Under these circumstances, it is possible that we could suffer from shortages for certain products and, if we underestimate market demand, we face the risk of being unable to fulfill customer orders. We also face the risk of excess inventory and product obsolescence if we overestimate market demand for our products and build inventories in excess of demand. Our ability to accurately forecast sales is also a critical factor in our ability to meet analyst expectations for our quarterly and annual operating results. Any failure to meet these expectations would likely lead to a substantial decline in our stock price. We depend on the increased acceptance of mass-market image sensor applications to grow our business and increase our revenues. Our business strategy depends in large part on the continued growth of various markets into which we sell our image-sensor products, including the markets for camera cell phones, digital still and video cameras, commercial and security and surveillance applications, personal computers and lap-tops, toys and games, including interactive video games, and automotive applications. Our ability to sustain and grow our business also depends on the continued development of new markets for our products such as medical imaging devices. If these current and new markets do not grow and develop as anticipated, we may be unable to sustain or grow the sales of our products. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected if certain of these new markets do not emerge or develop as expected. Securities analysts may already factor revenue from such new markets into their future estimates of our financial performance and should such markets not develop as expected by such securities analysts the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 20 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) Our lengthy manufacturing, packaging and assembly cycle, in addition to our customers’ design cycle, may result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenues. The production of our image sensors requires a lengthy manufacturing, packaging and assembly process, typically lasting approximately 12-14 weeks. Additional time may pass before a customer commences volume shipments of products that incorporate our image sensors. Even when a manufacturer decides to design our image sensors into its products, the manufacturer may never ship final products incorporating our image sensors. Given this lengthy cycle, we experience a delay between the time we incur expenditures for research and development and sales and marketing efforts and the time we generate revenue, if any, from these expenditures. This delay makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand, which adds uncertainty to the manufacturing planning process and could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the product life cycle for certain of our image-sensor products designed for use in certain applications can be relatively short. If we fail to appropriately manage the manufacturing, packaging and assembly process, our products may become obsolete before they can be incorporated into our customers’ products and we may never realize a return on investment for the expenditures we incur in developing and producing these products. Our ability to deliver products that meet customer demand is dependent upon our ability to meet new and changing requirements for color filter application and sensor packaging. We expect that as we develop new products to meet technological advances and new and changing industry and customer demands, our color filter application and ceramic, plastic and chip-scale packaging requirements will also evolve. Our ability to continue to profitably deliver products that meet customer demand is dependent upon our ability to obtain third party services that meet these new requirements on a cost-effective basis. We have historically relied exclusively on third parties, and more recently, on one of our joint ventures, to provide these services. There can be no assurances that any of these parties will be able to develop enhancements to the services they provide to us to meet these new and changing industry and customer requirements. Furthermore, even if these service providers are able to develop their services to meet new and evolving requirements, these services may not be available at a cost that enables us to sustain our profitability. The high level of complexity and integration of our products increases the risk of latent defects, which could damage customer relationships and increase our costs. Because we integrate many functions on a single chip, our products are complex and are based upon evolving technology. The integration of additional functions into the complex operations of our products could result in a greater risk that customers or end users could discover latent defects or subtle faults after volumes of product have already been shipped. Although we test our products, we have in the past and may in the future encounter defects or errors. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, we made a provision of $2.7 million related to the possible replacement of products that did not meet a particular customer’s standards. Delivery of products with defects or reliability, quality or compatibility problems may damage our reputation and ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, product defects and errors could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical resources, delayed product shipments, increased product returns, product warranty costs for recall and replacement and product liability claims against us which may not be fully covered by insurance. Historically, our revenues have been dependent upon a few key customers, the loss of one or more of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Historically, a relatively small number of OEMs, VARs and distributors have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Any material delay, cancellation or reduction of purchase orders from one or more of our major customers or distributors could result in our failure to achieve anticipated revenue for a particular period. In addition, if we are unable to retain one or more of our largest OEM, distributor or VAR customers, or if we are unable to maintain our current level of revenues from one or more of these significant customers, our business and results of operation would be impaired and our stock price could decrease, potentially significantly. In fiscal 2007, one OEM customer accounted for approximately 14.0% of our revenues. In fiscal 2007, two distributors accounted for approximately 15.1% and 12.9% of our revenues In addition, approximately 50% of our revenues have historically come from our top five customers. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will continue to depend significantly on our ability to retain our current key customers and attract new customers, as well as on the financial condition and success of our OEMs, VARs and distributors. 21 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) Changes in accounting rules for stock-based compensation have adversely affected our reported operating results, and may adversely affect our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Since our founding, we have used employee stock options and other stock-based compensation to attract, motivate and retain our employees. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS No. 123(R). We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on May 1, 2006 and accordingly, we began to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation at fair value and recognize these costs as expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The recognition of these expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income has had a negative effect on our earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, if we reduce or alter our use of stock-based compensation to minimize these expenses, our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees may be impaired, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage in the employee marketplace. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or long-term investments become impaired. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which we determine that our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or long-term investments have been impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our results of operations. As of April 30, 2007, our net goodwill and amortizable intangible assets totaled approximately $28.0 million and our long term investments totaled approximately $67.3 million. We maintain a backlog of customer orders that is subject to cancellation or delay in delivery schedules, and any cancellation or delay may result in lower than anticipated revenues. Our sales are generally made pursuant to standard purchase orders. We include in our backlog only those customer orders for which we have accepted purchase orders and assigned shipment dates within the upcoming 12 months. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to cancellation or changes in delivery schedules, and backlog may not necessarily be an indication of future revenue. Any cancellation or delay in orders which constitute our current or future backlog may result in lower than expected revenues. If we are unable to maintain processes and procedures to sustain effective internal control over our financial reporting, our ability to provide reliable and timely financial reports could be harmed and this could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We are required to comply with the rules promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 requires that we prepare an annual management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and requires a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing this assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control that need improvement. For example, we restated our financial statements for the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2004. If these or similar types of issues were to arise with respect to our internal controls in future periods, they could impair our ability to produce accurate and timely financial reports. As our business expands, ongoing compliance with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and maintenance of effective internal control over financial reporting will require that we hire additional qualified finance and accounting personnel. Because other businesses face similar challenges, there is significant competition for such personnel, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and/or retain suitably qualified employees. Corporate governance regulations have recently increased our compliance costs and could further increase our expenses if changes occur within our business. Changes in laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, have imposed new requirements on us and on our officers, directors, attorneys and independent registered 22 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) public accounting firm. In order to comply with these new rules, we added internal resources and have utilized additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services, which increased our operating expenses in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 as compared to prior fiscal years. We expect to incur ongoing operating expenses as we maintain compliance with Section 404. In addition, if we undergo significant modifications to our structure through personnel or system changes, acquisitions, or otherwise, it may be increasingly difficult to maintain compliance with the existing and evolving corporate governance regulations. There are risks associated with our operations in China. In December 2000, we established Hua Wei Semiconductor (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., or HWSC, as part of our efforts to streamline our manufacturing process and reduce the costs and working capital associated with the testing of our image-sensor products, and relocated our automated image testing equipment from the United States to China. In addition, we also expect to expand testing capabilities with additional automated testing equipment, which will also be located in China. However, there are significant administrative, legal and governmental risks to operating in China that could result in increased operating expenses or that could prevent us from achieving our objectives in operations. The risks from operating in China that could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to deliver our products and grow our business include, without limitation: · difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, particularly in attracting and retaining personnel qualified to design, sell and support CMOS image sensors; · difficulties in coordinating our operations in China with those in California; · diversion of management attention; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across our global operations, including inventory management and financial consolidation; · political and economic instability, which could have an adverse impact on foreign exchange rates in Asia and could impair our ability to conduct our business in China; and · inadequacy of the local infrastructure to support our needs. We may experience integration or other problems with potential future acquisitions, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. New acquisitions could dilute the interests of existing stockholders, and the announcement of new acquisitions could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We may in the future make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe would complement our products, including CMOS image sensor manufacturers. We may also make acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses that we believe could expand our distribution channels. Even if we were to announce an acquisition, we may not be able to complete it. In addition, any future acquisition or substantial investment could present numerous risks, including: · difficulty in realizing the potential technological benefits of the transaction; · difficulty in integrating the technology, operations or work force of the acquired business with our existing business; · unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; · disruption of our ongoing business; · difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; · difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; · possible impairment of relationships with employees, customers, suppliers and strategic partners as a result of integration of new businesses and management personnel; · reductions in our future operating results from amortization of intangible assets; · impairment of resulting goodwill; and · potential unknown or unexpected liabilities associated with acquired businesses. 23 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) We expect that any future acquisitions could include consideration to be paid in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and our common stock. If and when consideration for a transaction is paid in common stock, it will result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We may never achieve all of the anticipated benefits from our joint venture with TSMC. In October 2003, we entered into an agreement with TSMC to form VisEra, a joint venture in Taiwan, for the purposes of providing manufacturing services. In August 2005, we amended and restated our agreement with TSMC in part to enable VisEra to acquire 29.6% of XinTec, a supplier of chip-scale packaging services in which we originally invested in April 2003 and in which we directly hold an approximate four percent interest. In January 2007, we entered into a further amendment to the agreement with TSMC to expand the scope of VisEra’s activities and provide additional funding for the expansion of VisEra. In January 2006, VisEra acquired certain color filter processing equipment from TSMC and assumed direct responsibility for providing the color filter processing services that had previously been provided by TSMC. We expect that VisEra will be able to provide us with a committed supply of high quality manufacturing services at competitive prices. However, there are significant legal, governmental and relationship risks to developing VisEra, and we cannot ensure that we will receive the expected benefits from the joint venture. For example, VisEra may not be able to provide manufacturing services that have competitive technology or prices, which could adversely affect our product offerings and our ability to meet customer requirements for our products. In addition, the existence of VisEra may also make it more difficult for us to secure dependable services from competing merchant vendors who provide similar manufacturing services. We may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our alliances with, and strategic investments in, third parties. We expect to develop our business partly through forming alliances or joint ventures with and making strategic investments in other companies, some of which may be companies at a relatively early stage of development. For example, in April 2003, we made an investment in XinTec, a chip scale packaging service company, and in June 2003 we made an investment in ImPac, a plastic packaging service company. In December 2005, VisEra, our joint venture with TSMC, completed the acquisition of a further 29.6% of the issued and outstanding shares of XinTec. In January 2007, TSMC acquired directly a 43.0% interest in XinTec, thus reducing our beneficial ownership in XinTec to 12.4%. In May 2004, we entered into an agreement with PSC under which we established SOI, a joint venture as a company incorporated under the laws of Taiwan., The purpose of the joint venture is to conduct the business of manufacturing, marketing and selling of certain of our legacy products. In March 2005, we assumed control of the board of directors of SOI and we have consolidated SOI since April 30, 2005. Our investments in these companies may negatively impact our operating results, because, under certain circumstances, we are required to recognize our portion of any loss recorded by each of these companies or to consolidate them into our operating results. We expect to continue to utilize partnerships, strategic alliances and investments, particularly those that enhance our manufacturing capacity and those that provide manufacturing services and testing capability. These investments and partnering arrangements are crucial to our ability to grow our business and meet the increasing demands of our customers. However, we cannot ensure that we will achieve the benefits expected as a result of these alliances. For example, we may not be able to obtain acceptable quality and/or wafer manufacturing yields from these companies, which could result in higher operating costs and could impair our ability to meet customer demand for our products. In addition, certain of these investments or partnering relationships may place restrictions on the scope of our business, the geographic areas in which we can sell our products and the types of products that we can manufacture and sell. For example, our agreement with TSMC provides that we may not engage in business that will directly compete with the business of VisEra. This type of non-competition provision may impact our ability to grow our business and to meet the demands of our customers. Changes in our relationships with our joint ventures and/or companies in which we hold less than a majority interest could change the way we account for such interests in the future. As part of our strategy, we have formed joint ventures with two of our foundry partners, and we hold a minority interest in two companies from which we purchase certain manufacturing services. Under the applicable provisions of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, we currently consolidate one 24 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) of these joint ventures into our consolidated financial statements and results of operations, and record the equity interests that we do not own as minority interests. For the investments that we account for under the equity method, we record as part of other income or expense our share of the increase or decrease in the equity of the companies in which we have invested. It is possible that, in the future, our relationships and/or our interests in or with these joint ventures or other investees could change. Such changes have in the past, and could in the future result in deconsolidation or consolidation of such entities, as the case may be, which could result in changes in our reported results. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, and therefore we may lose some of our competitive advantage. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods to protect our proprietary technologies. We have been issued patents and have a number of pending United States and foreign patent applications. However, we cannot provide assurance that any patent will be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, that any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. It is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For example, in August 2002 we initiated a patent infringement action in Taiwan, Republic of China against IC Media Corporation of San Jose, California for infringement of a Taiwanese patent that had been issued to us. In response to our patent infringement action, in October 2002, IC Media Corporation initiated a cancellation proceeding in the Taiwan Intellectual Property Office with respect to our patent. In July 2003, the Taiwan Intellectual Property Office made an initial determination to grant the cancellation of the subject patent, which decision was upheld by the Taiwan Ministry of Economic Affairs and the High Administrative Court. We decided not to appeal such decision by the May 31, 2005 deadline. Although we do not believe the cancellation of the Taiwanese patent at issue in the dispute described above has had a material adverse effect on our business or prospects, there may be other situations where our inability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and operating results. If a third party can copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop corresponding technology independently or design around our patents, this could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. Any disputes over our intellectual property rights, whatever the ultimate resolution of such disputes, may result in costly and time-consuming litigation or require the license of additional elements of intellectual property for a fee. Litigation regarding intellectual property could divert management attention, be costly to defend and prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving intellectual property rights, including in the semiconductor industry. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to legal proceedings and claims with respect to our intellectual property, including such matters as trade secrets, patents, product liabilities and other actions arising out of the normal course of business. These claims may increase as our intellectual property portfolio becomes larger or more valuable. Intellectual property claims against us, and any resulting lawsuit, may cause us to incur significant expenses, subject us to liability for damages and invalidate our proprietary rights. In fiscal 2002, we paid $3.5 million to settle an intellectual property litigation matter. Any potential intellectual property litigation against us would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention and could also force us to take actions such as: · ceasing the sale or use of products or services that incorporate the infringed intellectual property; · obtaining from the holder of the infringed intellectual property a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all; or · redesigning those products or services that incorporate the disputed intellectual property, which could result in substantial unanticipated development expenses and delay and prevent us from selling the products until the redesign is completed, if at all. If we are subject to a successful claim of infringement and we fail to develop non-infringing intellectual property or license the infringed intellectual property on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, we may be unable to sell some or all of our products, and our operating results could be adversely affected. We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of competitors. These claims could also result in significant expense and the diversion of technical and management attention. 25 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) We have been named as a defendant in certain litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We are currently a defendant in ongoing litigation matters as described in Part I, Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report. We have reached an agreement in principle to settle the shareholder class action lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We accrued $3.3 million in litigation settlement expenses during the quarter ended October 31, 2006 to reflect our share of the settlement, including unreimbursed defense costs, net of $13.0 million in recoverable insurance proceeds. The parties have executed a Stipulation of Settlement that was filed with the Court in May 2007. Notice of the settlement must be provided to the purported shareholder class and the Court must grant final approval of the settlement. There is no assurance that the settlement will become final. If there is no final settlement of the matters described in Part I, Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings,” and we fail to prevail in such matters, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. In addition, the results of litigation are uncertain, and the litigation process may utilize a portion of our cash resources and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to increase our revenues and improve our earnings could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management and other resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must, among other things: · significantly improve our operational, financial and accounting systems; · train and manage our existing employee base; · attract and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience; and · effectively manage accounts receivable and inventory. For example, our failure to effectively manage our inventory levels could result either in excess inventories, which could adversely affect our gross margins and operating results, or lead to an inability to fill customer orders, which would result in lower sales and could harm our relationships with existing and potential customers. We must also manage multiple relationships with customers, business partners and other third parties, such as our foundries and process and assembly vendors. Moreover, our growth may significantly overburden our management and financial systems and other resources. We may not make adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with our expansion. In addition, our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations, and we may not be able to expand quickly enough to capitalize on potential market opportunities. Our future operating results will also depend, in part, on our ability to expand sales and marketing, research and development, accounting, finance and administrative support. Our future tax rates could be higher than we anticipate if the proportion of future operating income generated outside the U.S. by our foreign subsidiaries is less than we expect, or the mix differs from that which we expect. A number of factors will affect our future tax rate, and certain of these factors could increase our effective tax rate in future periods, which could adversely impact our operating results. For example, the complex rules for accounting for the tax effects of stock-based compensation under SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in an increase in our effective tax rate in the fiscal year ended April 30, 2007. Similarly, we anticipate that there will be greater volatility in our future effective tax rates due to the adoption of FIN 48 in the fiscal year which began on May 1, 2007. In addition, our future effective tax rates could be negatively affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In common with all multinational companies, we are subject to tax in multiple jurisdictions. The tax authorities in any given jurisdiction may seek to increase the taxes being collected by, for example, asserting that the transfer prices we charge between related entities are either too high or too low depending on which side of the transaction they are looking at. Although we believe we have provided sufficient taxes for all prior periods, adjustments could be proposed that would, in some cases, result in liabilities in excess of such provisions. 26 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) Our sales through distributors increase the complexity of our business and may reduce our ability to forecast revenues. During fiscal 2006 and 2007, approximately 31.1% and 40.0%, respectively, of our revenues came from sales through distributors. We expect that revenues from sales through distributors will continue to represent higher proportion of our total revenues than they have in the past. Selling through distributors reduces our ability to accurately forecast sales and increases the complexity of our business, requiring us to, among other matters: · manage a more complex supply chain; · manage the level of inventory at each distributor; · provide for credits, return rights and price protection; · estimate the impact of credits, return rights, price protection and unsold inventory at distributors; and · monitor the financial condition and creditworthiness of our distributors. Any failure to manage these challenges could cause us to inaccurately forecast sales and carry excess or insufficient inventory, thereby adversely affecting our operating results. We face foreign business, political and economic risks, because a majority of our products and those of our customers are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. We face difficulties in managing our third party foundries, color filter application service providers, ceramic and plastic packaging service providers and our foreign distributors, most of whom are located in Asia. Any political and economic instability in Asia might have an adverse impact on foreign exchange rates and could cause service disruptions for our vendors and distributors and adversely affect our customers. Sales outside of the United States accounted for substantially all of our revenues for fiscal 2006 and 2007. We anticipate that sales outside of the United States will continue to account for nearly all of our revenues in future periods. Dependence on sales to foreign customers involves certain risks, including: · longer payment cycles; · the adverse effects of tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions that impair trade; · decreased visibility as to future demand; · difficulties in accounts receivable collections; and · burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices. Sales of our products have to date been denominated principally in U.S. dollars. Over the last several years, the U.S. dollar has weakened against most other currencies. Future increases in the value of the U.S. dollar, if any, would increase the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which our customers are located. This may result in our customers seeking lower-priced suppliers, which could adversely impact our operating results. A larger portion of our international revenues may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which would subject us to increased risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, which has occurred from time to time, or the decision of one or more of these individuals to join a competitor, could adversely affect our business and harm our operating results and financial condition. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management and certain other key technical personnel. None of our senior management is bound by an employment or non-competition agreement. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified sales, marketing, finance, management and technical personnel, particularly analog or mixed signal design engineers. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. If we 27 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our revenues and product development efforts could be harmed. We are in the process of upgrading our enterprise resource planning and other management information systems. As our business grows and becomes more complex, we have to expand and upgrade our enterprise resource planning system and other management information systems which are critical to the operational, accounting and financial functions of our company. We have evaluated alternative solutions, both short-term and long-term, to meet the operating, administrative and financial reporting requirements of our business and have decided to implement a system based on a suite of application software developed by Oracle Corporation. Implementation of such a system requires significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors in or delay in the implementation of the system could materially adversely affect our operating results and impact our ability to manage our business. Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. Disasters and business interruptions such as earthquakes, water, fire, electrical failure, accidents and epidemics affecting our operating activities, major facilities, and employees’ and customers’ health could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In particular, our Asian operations and most of our third party service providers involved in the manufacturing of our products are located within relative close proximity. Therefore, any disaster that strikes within close proximity of that geographic area could be extremely disruptive to our business and could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We do not currently have a disaster recovery plan. Acts of war and terrorist acts may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition. Acts of war or terrorist acts, wherever they occur around the world, may cause damage or disruption to our business, employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors or customers, which could significantly impact our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition. In addition, as a company with significant operations and major distributors and customers located in Asia, we may be adversely impacted by heightened tensions and acts of war that occur in locations such as the Korean Peninsula, Taiwan and China. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot presently be predicted. We are uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law, as well as our stockholders’ rights plan, could prevent or delay a change in control of our company and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: · adjusting the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of preferred stock without stockholder approval; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three year terms; · requiring supermajority voting to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and · prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent. Provisions of Delaware law also may discourage, delay or prevent another company from acquiring or merging with us. Our board of directors adopted a preferred stock rights agreement in August 2001. Pursuant to the rights agreement, our board of directors declared a dividend of one right to purchase one one-thousandth share of our Series A Participating Preferred Stock for each outstanding share of our common stock. The dividend was paid on September 28, 2001 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on that date. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred at an exercise price of 28 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) $176.00, subject to adjustment. The exercise of the rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company, including, without limitation, discouraging a proxy contest or making more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. The rights agreement could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Our stock has been and will likely continue to be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, that may prevent our stockholders from selling our common stock at a profit. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not continue. Since the beginning of fiscal 2002 through April 30, 2007, the closing sales price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $33.90 per share to a low of $1.26 per share. The closing sales price of our common stock on June 22, 2007 was $17.38 per share. The securities markets have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in the past, and the market prices of the securities of semiconductor companies have been especially volatile. This market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; · changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; · release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding shares of common stock or sales of additional shares of common stock; · sales or the perception in the market of possible sales of shares of our common stock by our directors, officers, employees or principal stockholders; · changes in market valuations of other technology companies; and · announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, design wins, contracts, standards or acquisitions. Due to these factors, the price of our stock may decline and investors may be unable to resell their shares of our stock for a profit. In addition, the stock market experiences extreme volatility that often is unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to decline regardless of our performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 