Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us. 10 Table of Contents The SPHC and Bondex Chapter 11 proceedings involve various risks and uncertainties that could have a material effect on us. We have entered into an agreement in principle with the official representatives of current and future claimants that would resolve all present and future asbestos personal injury claims related to Bondex and other related entities. The agreement contemplates the filing of a plan or plans of reorganization and related documents (the “Plan”) with the United States Bankruptcy Court in Delaware (the “Bankruptcy Court”). The Plan will be subject to approval of the claimants, as well as the Bankruptcy Court and U.S. District Court. Under the terms of the agreement in principle, a trust or trusts (the “Trust”) will be established under Section 524(g) of the United States Bankruptcy Code for the benefit of current and future asbestos personal injury claimants. Upon effectiveness of the Plan (the “Effective Date”), the Trust will be funded with $450 million in cash and one or more promissory notes, bearing no interest and maturing on or before the fourth anniversary of the Effective Date. The Plan shall provide for the following contributions to the Trust: • On or before the second anniversary of the Effective Date, an additional $102.5 million in cash, RPM International stock or a combination thereof (at our discretion in this and all subsequent cases) will be deposited into the Trust; • On or before the third anniversary of the Effective Date, an additional $120 million in cash, RPM International stock or a combination thereof will be deposited into the Trust; and • On or before the fourth anniversary of the Effective Date, a final payment of $125 million in cash, RPM International stock or a combination thereof will be deposited into the Trust. Of the first $450 million payment, $2.5 million relates to the resolution of all present and future asbestos personal injury claims related to NMBFil, Inc., an indirect subsidiary of RPM International, which is the subject of a separate settlement term sheet. A portion of the payments due under the promissory note(s) will be secured by a right to the equity of Bondex and related chapter 11 debtor entities. All present and future asbestos personal injury claims against Bondex and the other related entities would be channeled to and paid by the Trust. The agreement in principle will automatically terminate if the Plan is not filed by October 31, 2014. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the Plan must be confirmed and effective no later than October 31, 2015, otherwise simple interest at the rate of 3.45% will begin to accrue on the aggregate funding amount of the trust through the effective date of the Plan. There is no guaranty that the Plan will be filed or confirmed or of the timing of any such confirmation. If the Plan is not filed or if the Plan, or a substantially similar plan, is not confirmed, the interests of SPHC, Bondex and RPM International may be significantly and adversely affected, SPHC and Bondex will remain in chapter 11, the amount of the asbestos liabilities of SPHC and Bondex will remain unresolved and the terms, timing and impact of any plan of reorganization ultimately confirmed will be unknown. If the Plan is not confirmed, the amount of SPHC’s and Bondex’s asbestos personal injury liabilities will not be resolved and will continue to be subject to substantial dispute and uncertainty as the appeals process with respect to the estimation ruling will then move forward. If the Plan is not confirmed, the amount of the asbestos personal injury liabilities could ultimately be determined to be significantly different from the amount agreed to by the parties in the agreement. This difference could be material to our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. In the event the Plan is not confirmed it is unclear whether any channeling injunction entered in connection with a plan of reorganization will extend to all non-filing affiliates of the filing entities, including RPM International. As a result of the chapter 11 filing, the filing entities are precluded from paying dividends to shareholders and making payments on any pre-bankruptcy filing accounts or notes payable that are due and owing to any other entity within the RPM group of companies (the “Pre-Petition Intercompany Payables”) and other pre-petition creditors during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceedings, without the Bankruptcy Court’s approval. If the Plan is not confirmed, no assurances can be given that any of the Pre-Petition Intercompany Payables will be paid or otherwise satisfied in connection with the confirmation of an alternative plan of reorganization. As of May 30, 2010, the day prior to the Chapter 11 filing, SPHC and its subsidiaries had Pre-Petition Intercompany Payables of 11 Table of Contents approximately $209.6 million and pre-petition intercompany receivables from other entities within the RPM group of companies (other than subsidiaries of SPHC) of approximately $87.3 million. As previously disclosed, on May 20, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware issued an opinion estimating the current and future asbestos claims associated with Bondex and SPHC at approximately $1.17 billion. The estimation hearing represents one step in the legal process in helping to determine the amount of potential funding for a 524(g) asbestos trust. Bondex and SPHC firmly believe that the opinion substantially overstates the amount of their liability and is not supported by the facts or the law. Bondex and SPHC and we have filed appeals of the decision with the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and sought certification of the appeal directly to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, but were denied. The appeals remain pending before the District Court. The asbestos claimants and the future claims representative have moved to dismiss the appeals, arguing that the estimation order is not a final, appealable order. Bondex, SPHC and we believe that the order is final and appealable, and that, even if it were not, the appeals should be treated as motions to appeal which should be granted. Assuming that the motion to dismiss the appeals is not granted, it is anticipated that the appeal process could take two to three years. We believe that the Bankruptcy Court’s estimation opinion, if not vacated on appeal, may increase the likelihood that claims may be asserted against RPM International alleging that we are liable for the asbestos liabilities of the filing entities. We expect that these appeals will be stayed pending confirmation of the Plan. As previously disclosed, at a hearing held on November 13, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court granted the motion of the Official Committee of Asbestos Personal Injury Claimants and the Future Claimants’ Representative (collectively the “ACC/FCR”) for standing to pursue the SPHC estate claims against us, certain of our directors and executive officers, and third party advisors. We anticipated that the ACC/FCR might be permitted to pursue claims on behalf of the SPHC and Bondex estates against us. We believe that the alleged SPHC estate claims are without merit and, if such claims are made, intend to contest them vigorously, but if the ACC/FCR are successful in any such effort, it may increase the amount that RPM International may need to contribute to any 524(g) trust. The ACC/FCR have agreed not to proceed with any such claims unless the Plan is not confirmed. There is also a possibility that the Bankruptcy Court could lift the injunction precluding litigation of asbestos claims against us and permitting such claims against us in the tort system. Although we believe we have no responsibility for asbestos liabilities of the filing entities, we cannot assure you that the resolution of such claims, or the perception that RPM International may have a risk of exposure to liability for the asbestos-related liabilities of the filing entities, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our securities. We are the subject of an ongoing SEC investigation, which could divert management’s focus, result in substantial investigation expenses and have an adverse impact on our reputation and financial condition and results of operations. We were notified by the SEC on June 24, 2014 that we are the subject of a formal investigation pertaining to the timing of our disclosure and accrual of loss reserves in fiscal 2013 with respect to the previously disclosed General Services Administration (“GSA”) and Department of Justice investigation into compliance issues relating to Tremco Roofing Division’s GSA contracts. We accrued $68.8 million for a settlement with the GSA during the third quarter of fiscal 2013, which was revised to $65.1 million during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, and the investigation was ultimately resolved with a payment to the GSA of $61.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. We are cooperating with the SEC in its ongoing investigation. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (the “Audit Committee”), with the assistance of independent advisors, conducted an investigation into the foregoing matters. On August 11, 2014, the Audit Committee concluded that our previously issued consolidated financial statements for the quarterly periods ended August 31, 2012, November 30, 2012 and February 28, 2013 (collectively, the “Affected Periods”), should no longer be relied upon due to an error in the timing of disclosure and accrual of loss reserves for the GSA matter. We have amended our prior Form 10-Q filings for the Affected Periods to include restated financial information for such periods. For additional information concerning the restatements, see Note R of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 12 Table of Contents We have incurred significant legal and accounting expenditures in connection with the SEC’s and the Audit Committee’s investigation. We are unable to predict how long the SEC’s investigation will continue or whether, at the conclusion of its investigation, the SEC will seek to impose fines or take other actions against us. A protracted investigation could impose substantial additional costs and distractions, regardless of its outcome. Furthermore, publicity surrounding the foregoing or any enforcement action or private litigation prompted by or resulting from the SEC’s investigation, even if ultimately resolved favorably for us, could have an adverse impact on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations have been adversely affected by global market and economic conditions. Global economic uncertainty continues to exist. Our operations could be adversely affected by global economic conditions if global markets were to decline in the future. Any future economic declines may result in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collection of customer receivables. We also have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, increased competitive pricing pressure. In addition, customer difficulties in the future could result in decreases in product demand, increases in bad debt write-offs, decreases in timely collection of accounts receivable and adjustments to our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable. Global economic and capital market conditions may cause our access to capital to be more difficult in the future and/or costs to secure such capital more expensive. We may need new or additional financing in the future to provide liquidity to conduct our operations, expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. Any sustained weakness in general economic conditions and/or U.S. or global capital markets could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. From time to time we have relied, and we may also rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for working capital requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to that facility to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Moreover, the obligations of the financial institutions under our credit facility are several and not joint and, as a result, a funding default by one or more institutions does not need to be made up by the others. Longer term volatility and continued disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of financial institutions, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the liquidity needed for our businesses in the longer term. Such disruptions could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Volatility in the equity markets or interest rates could substantially increase our pension costs and required pension contributions. We sponsor qualified defined benefit pension plans and various other nonqualified postretirement plans. The qualified defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities and other investments. Among other factors, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can (i) affect the level of plan funding; (ii) cause volatility in the net periodic pension cost; and (iii) increase our future contribution requirements. A significant decrease in investment returns or the market value of plan assets or a significant decrease in interest rates could increase our net periodic pension costs and adversely affect our results of operations. A significant increase in our contribution requirements with respect to our qualified defined benefit pension plans could have an adverse impact on our cash flow. The results of our annual testing of goodwill and other intangible assets have required, and in the future may require that we incur non-cash impairment charges. As of May 31, 2014, we had approximately $1.6 billion in goodwill and other intangible assets. The Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) section 350 requires that goodwill be tested at least on an annual basis, or more frequently as impairment indicators arise, using either a qualitative assessment or a fair-value 13 Table of Contents approach at the reporting unit level. We perform our annual required impairment tests, which involve the use of estimates related to the fair market values of the reporting units with which goodwill is associated, as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter. The evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes determining whether indicators of impairment exist, which is a subjective process that takes into account both internal and external factors. Impairment assessment requires the use of significant judgment with regard to estimates and assumptions surrounding future results of operations and cash flows. For the fiscal years ended May 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, our impairment testing did not result in any impairment loss. In the future, if global economic conditions were to decline significantly, or if our reporting units experienced significant declines in business, we may incur substantial non-cash goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges. The amount of any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our significant amount of indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our total debt levels remained flat at approximately $1.4 billion for May 31, 2014 and May 31, 2013, which compares with $1.4 billion in stockholders’ equity at May 31, 2014. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, stock repurchases or other general corporate requirements; • result in a downgrade of our credit rating, which would increase our borrowing costs, adversely affect our financial results, and make it more difficult for us to raise capital; • restrict our operational flexibility and reduce our ability to conduct certain transactions, since our credit facility contains certain restrictive financial and operating covenants; • limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, which would make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions; and • have a material adverse effect on our short-term liquidity if large debt maturities occur in close succession. We cannot assure you that our business always will be able to make timely or sufficient payments of our debt. Should we fail to comply with covenants in our debt instruments, such failure could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials may negatively impact our financial results. We obtain the raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. Many of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market and from a variety of producers. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. The costs of the raw materials we use are under generally upward pressure due to escalating energy and related feedstock costs, increased levels of global demand, improved levels of supplier pricing discipline and declines in the value of the U.S. dollar. If the prices of raw materials continue to increase and we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, we could experience reduced gross profit margins. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. The markets in which we operate are fragmented, and we do not face competition from any one company across all of our product lines. However, any significant increase in competition, as a result of the consolidation of competitors or otherwise, may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. Increased competition may also impair our 14 Table of Contents ability to grow or to maintain our current levels of revenues and earnings. Companies that compete in our markets include Akzo Nobel, Ferro, H.B. Fuller, Masco, PPG, Sherwin-Williams and Valspar. Several of these companies are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could prevent the institution of price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending to maintain our market share, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior management. Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time. We depend on a number of large customers for a significant portion of our net sales and, therefore, significant declines in the level of purchases by any of these key customers could harm our business. Some of our operating companies, particularly in the consumer segment, face a substantial amount of customer concentration. Our key consumer segment customers include Ace Hardware, Cotter & Company, Do It Best, The Home Depot, Lowe’s, Menards, Orgill, Rona, Wal-Mart and W.W. Grainger. Sales to our ten largest consumer segment customers accounted for approximately 24%, 22% and 22% of our total net sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and 64%, 63% and 67%, respectively, of the consumer segment’s net sales for those same fiscal years. Sales to the Home Depot represented less than 10% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2012 and 2013; 11% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2014; and 29%, 28% and 28% of our consumer segment net sales for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If we were to lose one or more of our key customers, or experience a delay or cancellation of a significant order, or incur a significant decrease in the level of purchases from any of our key customers, or experience difficulty in collecting amounts due from a key customer, our net revenues could decline and our operating results could be reduced materially. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and downward economic cycles may have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our customers, across both reportable segments, are in businesses and industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, construction activity, and other factors, including changes in consumer spending and preferences. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Downward economic cycles affecting the markets of our customers may reduce the sales of our products resulting in material reductions to our revenues and net earnings. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. Our family of products includes a number of well-known brand names that are used in a variety of construction, industrial maintenance, consumer DIY and professional applications. We believe that continuing to maintain the strength of our brands is critical to increasing demand for our products and maintaining their widespread acceptance among our customers. The reputations of our branded products depend on numerous factors, including the successful advertising and marketing of our brand names, consumer acceptance, the availability of similar products from our competitors, and our ability to maintain our products’ quality and technological advantages. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. 15 Table of Contents Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our material trademarks and other proprietary information. We have numerous valuable patents, trade secrets and know-how, domain names, trademarks and trade names, including certain marks that are significant to our business, which are identified under Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Despite our efforts to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, other parties, including our former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or marks without our authorization. Unauthorized use of our trademarks, or unauthorized use or disclosure of our other intellectual property, could negatively impact our business and financial condition. The chemical and construction products industries in which we operate expose us to inherent risks of legal and warranty claims and other litigation-related costs, which could adversely impact our business. As a participant in the chemical and construction products industries, we face an inherent risk of exposure to legal claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. In the course of our business we are subject to a variety of inquiries and investigations by regulators, as well as claims and lawsuits by private parties including those related to product liability, asbestos, product warranty, environmental, contracts, intellectual property and commercial matters, which due to their uncertain nature may result in losses, some of which may be material. Many of our industrial segment products are used in industrial, commercial or institutional building construction projects. In some instances, our companies offer extended term warranties and as a result, from time to time we may experience higher levels of warranty expense, which is typically reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses. The nature and extent to which we use hazardous or flammable materials in our manufacturing processes creates risk of damage to persons and property that, if realized, could be material. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to unforeseen future expenditures or liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., Canada and other countries where we conduct business. Governmental and regulatory authorities impose various laws and regulations on us that relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes, the use of certain chemicals in product formulations, and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, TSCA, and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. In addition, these laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and third party disposal sites. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of facilities and properties and have received notices under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or analogous state laws of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our current or former operations. Further, we also could be subject to future liability resulting from conditions that are currently unknown to us that could be discovered in the future. The environmental laws under which we operate are numerous, complicated and often increasingly stringent, and may be applied retroactively. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in full compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which we conduct our business. In addition, if we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We also could be liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances relating to our products or operations. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to make additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Our businesses are dependent on the issuance of operating permits and registrations required from government agencies. In connection with the performance of certain activities, our businesses are required to seek permission from agencies in the states, provinces, and countries in which they operate. If regulatory permits or registrations are delayed, restricted, or rejected, subsequent operations at our businesses could be delayed or restricted, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We expect that the environmental, health and safety laws and regulations applicable to our business will continue to become more stringent in the future which may result in increased costs to us for compliance therewith. Further, failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines and penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations, remedial or corrective measures, installations of pollution control equipment, or other actions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our businesses are subject to varying domestic and foreign laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Our businesses are subject to varying domestic and foreign laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. These include securities, environmental, tax, competition and anti-trust, trade controls, data security, employment and privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations change from time to time and thus may result in increased costs to us related to our compliance therewith. From time to time regulators review our compliance with applicable laws. Enforcement actions, fines and private litigation claims and damages may result, notwithstanding our belief that we have in place appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks. If our efforts in acquiring and integrating other companies or product lines or establishing joint ventures fail, our business may not grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and creating joint ventures. Our ability to continue to grow in this manner depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. In addition, acquisitions and their subsequent integration involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • inaccurate assessments of disclosed liabilities and the potentially adverse effects of undisclosed liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, their products, and their culture into our existing business; • unforeseen delays in realizing the benefits from acquired companies or product lines, including projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and profit margins; • unforeseen diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business matters; • unforeseen difficulties resulting from insufficient prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • unforeseen difficulties in retaining key employees and customers of acquired businesses; and • increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could in turn restrict our ability to raise additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy. Execution of our acquisition strategy with respect to some companies or product lines could fail or could result in unanticipated costs to us that were not apparent despite our due diligence efforts, either of which could hinder our growth or adversely impact our results of operations. Our credit facility contains restrictions on certain mergers and asset dispositions. 17 Table of Contents We derive a significant amount of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our foreign manufacturing operations accounted for approximately 41% of our net trade sales for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2014, not including exports directly from the U.S. which accounted for approximately 2% of our net trade sales for fiscal 2014. We plan to continue to grow our international operations and the growth and maintenance of such operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, inflation rates, trade protection measures, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, changing intellectual property rights, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in material volatility in our costs and earnings and may also adversely affect the carrying values of our assets located outside the U.S. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws of other countries. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (‘‘FCPA’’) and similar anti-bribery laws of other countries generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to governmental officials or others for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or for other unfair advantage. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Although we have internal controls and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our controls and procedures will prevent a violation of these laws. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Our operations are subject to the effect of global tax law changes, some of which have been, and may be in the future, retroactive in application. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign tax laws and regulations which govern, among other things, taxes on worldwide income. Any potential tax law changes may, for example, increase applicable tax rates, have retroactive application, or impose stricter compliance requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which could reduce our consolidated net earnings. In response to, for instance, the recent economic crisis and the recent recession, governments may revise tax laws, regulations or official interpretations in ways that could have a significant impact on us, including modifications that could, for example, reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. If changes in tax laws, regulations or interpretations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate could increase, our profits could be reduced, and if such increases were a result of our status as a U.S. company, could place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. Further, legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the U.S. which, if ultimately enacted, could subject us to increased taxes which could adversely affect our effective tax rate. We cannot predict the outcome or timing of any specific legislative, regulatory or other tax proposals or changes. We could be adversely affected by failure to comply with federal, state and local government procurement regulations and requirements. We have contracts with federal, state and local governmental entities, and are required to comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements relating to those contracts. We also enter into subcontracts with other federal, state, or local prime contractors. Further, we may serve as a supplier to an entity that is a federal, state, or local prime or subcontractor. Requirements in our contracts and those requirements 18 Table of Contents flowed down to us in our capacity as a subcontractor or supplier, although customary in government contracts, may impact our performance and compliance costs. Failure to comply with these regulations and requirements or to make required disclosures under contract could result in reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination for cause, adverse past performance ratings, actions under a federal or state false claims statute, suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time and the assessment of penalties and fines, any of which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition and could have a negative impact on our reputation and ability to procure other government contracts in the future. Terrorist activities and other acts of violence or war, natural disasters and other disruptions have negatively impacted in the past and could negatively impact in the future the U.S. and foreign countries, the financial markets, the industries in which we compete, our operations and profitability. Terrorist activities and natural disasters have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence, war or natural disasters could affect the industries in which we compete, our ability to purchase raw materials, our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, terrorist activities and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, which could impact our sales, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Disruptions could also occur due to cyber-attacks, computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error or process failures. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Data privacy and data security considerations could impact the Company’s business. The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. Complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive information and confidential and personal data and comply with and implement data security measures, our facilities and systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, including cyber-attacks. This could lead to negative publicity, legal claims, theft, modification or destruction of proprietary information or key information, manufacture of defective products, production downtimes, operational disruptions and other significant costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have insurance, it may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Although we maintain insurance of various types to cover many of the risks and hazards that apply to our operations, our insurance may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales. From time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the U.S. and other countries in which we do business have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings, roofing, construction products and related products. For example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the general construction and exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of such products. As a result, we have historically experienced weaker sales and net income in our third fiscal quarter (December through February) in comparison to our performance during our other fiscal quarters. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 