Risk Factors The following factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report and other reports and documents submitted to, or filed with, the SEC, could affect our results. If any of the following risks actually occur, our company could be seriously harmed, and the market price of our ADSs could decline. Risks Related to Our Overall Operations Our revenues and profitability are difficult to predict and can vary significantly from period to period which could cause our share price to decline significantly. Our revenues and profitability have grown rapidly in recent years and may fluctuate significantly in the future from period to period. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. The quarterly fluctuation of revenues is primarily because we derive our revenues from fees for services generated on a project-by-project basis. Our projects vary in size, scope and duration. For example, we have some projects that employ several people for only a few weeks and we have other projects that employ over 100 people for six months or more. A customer that accounts for a significant portion of our revenue in a particular period may not account for a similar portion of our revenue in future periods. In addition, customers may cancel contracts or defer projects at any time for a number of different reasons. Furthermore, increasing wage pressures, employee attrition, pressure on billing rates, the time and expense needed to train and productively utilize new employees and changes in the proportion of services rendered offshore can affect our profitability in any period. There are also a number of factors, other than our performance, that are not within our control that could cause fluctuations in our operating results from period to period. These include (i) the duration of tax holidays or tax exemptions and the availability of other Government of India or GoI incentives; (ii) currency fluctuations, particularly when the rupee appreciates in value against the U.S. dollar, since the majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars and a significant part of our costs are in rupees; and (iii) other general economic and political factors, including, in particular, the economic conditions in the United States. As a result, our revenues and our operating results in a particular period are difficult to predict, may decline in comparison to corresponding prior periods regardless of the strength of our business. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the price of our equity shares and our ADSs would likely decline significantly. Any inability to manage our rapid growth could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We have experienced significant growth in recent periods. In fiscal 2008, our total revenues increased by 46.3% as compared to fiscal 2007, and in fiscal 2007, our total revenues increased by 33.3% as compared to fiscal 2006. As of March 31, 2008, we had 50,570 employees, whom we refer to as associates, worldwide as compared to 39,018 associates as of March 31, 2007. In addition, we are continuing our geographical expansion. We have offshore facilities in India and overseas facilities located in Australia, Canada, China, Egypt Hungary, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and United States. In addition, we have sales and marketing offices located in Brazil, Canada, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom and United States. We have incurred $96.7 million of capital expenditures in fiscal 2008 and in fiscal 2009 we expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately $125.0 million to finance the construction of new facilities and the expansion of our existing facilities in our offshore centers and to establish offsite centers outside of India. We expect our growth to place significant demands on our management and other resources and to require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in India and elsewhere. In particular, continued growth increases the challenges involved in: • recruiting and retaining sufficiently skilled technical, marketing and management personnel • providing adequate training and supervision to maintain our high quality standards; • preserving our culture and values and our entrepreneurial environment; and • developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems Our inability to manage our growth effectively could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. 6 Table of Contents The economic environment, pricing pressure and rising wages have negatively impacted our revenues and operating results. We experience pricing pressures from our customers, which can negatively impact our operating results. If economic growth slows, our utilization and billing rates for our associates could be adversely affected which may result in lower gross profits and operating income. Wage costs in India, including in the IT services industry, have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, large companies are establishing offshore operations in India, resulting in wage pressures for Indian companies, which may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. Wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in increased cost of IT professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive with other employers, or seek to recruit in other low labor cost jurisdictions to keep our wage costs low. Compensation increases may result in a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Our business will suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and the industries on which we focus. The IT services market is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer preferences and new service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate these advances and develop new service offerings to meet customer needs and complement our offerings of end-to-end IT services. For example, we have invested resources in research and development efforts in order to continually develop capabilities to provide new services to our customers. Should we fail to develop such capabilities on a timely basis to keep pace with the rapidly changing IT market or if the services or technologies that we develop are not successful in the marketplace, our business and profitability will suffer and it is unlikely that we would be able to recover our research and development costs. Moreover, products, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our revenues are highly dependent on customers primarily located in the United States and customers concentrated in certain industries, and economic slowdowns or factors that affect the economic health of the United States and our customers’ industries may affect our business. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, approximately 60.1%, 63.2% and 64.9% respectively, of our total revenues were derived from the North America. For the same periods, we earned 23.9 %, 27.0% and 28.6% of our IT revenues from the manufacturing industry and 22.1%, 26.3% and 27.3% of our IT revenues from the banking, financial services and insurance sector respectively. If the economy in the United States weakens, our customers may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Any slowdown or recession in the United States economy will have an adverse impact on us since a large portion of our revenues is derived from the United States. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the manufacturing or banking and finance sectors, or other industry segments on which we focus, may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs. In the United States, in particular, there has been increasing political and media attention on these issues following the growth of offshore outsourcing. Any changes in existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing may adversely impact our ability to do business in the United States, which is the largest market for our services. In the recent past, some U.S. states have proposed legislation restricting government agencies from outsourcing their back office processes and IT solutions work to companies outside the United States or have enacted laws that limit or to discourage such outsourcing. Such laws restrict our ability to do business with U.S. government- related entities. It is also possible that U.S. private sector companies working with these governmental entities may be restricted from outsourcing projects related to government contracts or may face disincentives if they outsource certain projects. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Similarly, legislation came into effect in the United Kingdom in April 2006 requiring offshore outsourcing providers in certain circumstances to compensate U.K. employees for loss of jobs arising from the offshore migration of business processes. 7 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the IT services and BPO markets which could prevent us from attracting and retaining customers and could reduce our revenues. The markets for IT services and business process outsourcing, or BPO, are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect that competition will continue to intensify. We face competition in India and elsewhere from a number of companies, including: • offshore IT services firms such as Infosys Technologies Limited, Tata Consultancy Services Limited and Wipro Limited • consulting firms such as Accenture, Bearing Point, Capgemini and Deloitte Consulting; • divisions of large multinational technology firms such as Hewlett-Packard; and • IT outsourcing firms such as Computer Sciences Corporation, Electronic Data Systems and IBM Global Services; We also compete with software firms such as Oracle and SAP, service groups of computer equipment companies, in-house IT departments of large corporations, programming companies and temporary staffing firms. Satyam BPO Limited (formerly known as Nipuna Services Limited), our wholly-owned subsidiary, through which we provide BPO services, faces competition from firms like Infosys BPO Limited (formerly known as Progeon Limited) and Wipro BPO Solutions Limited (formerly known as Wipro Spectramind Services Limited). A significant part of our competitive advantage has historically been the cost advantage relative to service providers in the United States and Europe. Since wage costs in this industry in India are presently increasing at a faster rate than those in the United States and Europe, our ability to compete effectively will become increasingly dependent on our reputation, the quality of our services and our expertise in specific markets. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have and generate greater revenues than we do, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with such competitors and will not lose existing customers to such competitors. We believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on a number of factors outside our control, including the ability of our competitors to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technical associates, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to customer needs. Our revenues are highly dependent upon a small number of customers. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of corporate customers. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, our largest customer together with its affiliates, accounted for 4.9%, 6.3% and 8.8% respectively, of our total revenues. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, our second largest customer accounted for 4.8%, 4.4% and 5.1% respectively, of our total revenues. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, our five largest customers accounted for 19.3%, 23.3% and 24.2% respectively, of our total revenues. The volume of work performed for specific customers is likely to vary from year to year, particularly since we are usually not the exclusive outside service provider for our customers. There are a number of factors other than our performance that could cause the loss of a customer and that may not be predictable. In certain cases, services provided by us to a customer may be significantly reduced when the customer either changes its outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or replaces its existing software with packaged software supported by the licensor. Some customers could also potentially develop competing offshore IT centers in India and as a result, work that may otherwise be outsourced to us may instead be performed in-house. Reduced technology spending in response to a challenging economic or competitive environment may also result in lower revenues or loss of a customer. If we lose one of our major customers or one of our major customers significantly reduces its volume of business with us, our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected. Our fixed-price contracts expose us to additional risks, many of which are beyond our control, which may reduce the profitability of these contracts. We offer our services either on a fixed-price basis or on a time-and-materials basis. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, we derived 31.9%, 39.0% and 35.1% respectively, of our IT services revenues from fixed-price contracts. Although we use our software engineering processes and past project experience to reduce the risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price projects, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. We may also have to pay damages to our customers for completion delays. Many of these project risks may be beyond 8 Table of Contents our control. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a project, future wage inflation and currency exchange rates, or our failure to complete our contractual obligations within the time frame committed could reduce the profitability of our fixed-price contracts. Our customers may terminate projects before completion or choose not to renew contracts, many of which are terminable at will, which could adversely affect our profitability. Our contracts with customers do not commit our customers to provide us with a specific volume of business and can typically be terminated by our customers with or without cause, with little or no advance notice and without penalty. Any failure to meet a customer’s expectations could result in a cancellation or non-renewal of a contract. Additionally, our contracts with customers are typically limited to a specific project and not any future work. Our multi-year contracts will be due for renewal from time to time, and we cannot assure you that our customers will choose to renew such contracts for a similar or longer duration, on terms as favorable as their current terms or at all. Other than our performance, there are also a number of factors not within our control that could cause the loss of a customer. Our customers may demand price reductions, change their outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or to one of our competitors, or replace their existing software with packaged software supported by licensors, any of which could reduce our revenue and profitability. A number of our customer contracts may be conditioned upon our performance, which, if unsatisfactory, could result in less revenues than previously anticipated. We have not yet offered any performance-based or variable pricing terms to our customers. However we continue to consider the viability of introducing performance-based or variable-pricing contracts. Should we use value-based pricing terms, it will become more difficult for us to predict the revenues we will receive from our customer contracts, as such contracts would likely contain a higher number of contingent terms for payment of our fees by our customers. Our failure to meet contract goals or a customer’s expectations in such performance-based contracts may result in lower revenues, and a less profitable or an unprofitable engagement. Some of our multi-year customer contracts contain certain provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and profitability under the contract. Some of our multi-year customer contracts contain benchmarking provisions, most favored customer clause and/or provisions restricting personnel from working on projects of our customers’ competitors. Benchmarking provisions allow a customer in certain circumstances to request a benchmark study prepared by an agreed upon third-party comparing our pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services with that of an agreed list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the benchmarking study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to make improvements in the services we provide or to reduce the pricing for services to be performed under the balance term of the contract, which may result in lower future revenues and profitability under the contract. Most favored customer clauses generally provide that if, during the term of the contract, we were to offer similar services to any other customers on terms and conditions more favorable than those provided in such contract, we would be obligated to offer equally favorable terms and conditions to the customer. As pricing pressures increase, some customers may demand price reductions or other pricing incentives. Any pricing reduction agreed to in a subsequent contract may require us to offer equally favorable terms to other customers with whom we have a most favored contract under the remaining term of contracts with those customers which may result in lower future revenues and profitability. The contracts containing benchmarking provisions/most favored customer/and other similar clauses impact new projects or future services on existing projects and do not impact the terms of previously delivered projects/services. The most favored customer clause provides that the Company will offer the best pricing to a new customer if they are identified as a most favored customer. If an existing customer is granted a most favored customer status, the revised terms would apply to the services rendered to such customer after the grant of the most favored customer status. This clause is triggered if a similar contract is negotiated at a lower rate with a new / existing customer having similar volume, skill set, services offered, geography and domain. The reduction in the rates for a most favored customer would be applicable only from the time the Company offers a lower rate to any other customer who enters into a contract similar in nature to the most favored customer. Historically no delivery / price adjustments have been required to be made on account of any of these clauses and we do not anticipate that these clauses will have a material future effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents A number of our customer contracts provide that, during the term of the contract and for a certain period thereafter ranging from six to twelve months, we may not provide similar services to any of their competitors using the same personnel. This restriction may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to customers in the same industry, which may result in lower future revenues and profitability. We may be unable to attract skilled professionals in the competitive labor market. Our ability to execute projects and to obtain new customers depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technical associates, particularly project managers, project leaders and other senior technical personnel. We believe that there is significant competition for technical associates who possess the skills needed to perform the services that we offer. An inability to hire and retain additional qualified personnel will impair our ability to bid for or obtain new projects and to continue to expand our business. Also, we cannot assure you that we will be able to assimilate and manage new technical associates effectively. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, we experienced associate attrition in the IT services segment at a rate of 13.1%, 15.7% and 19.2% respectively. Any increase in our attrition rates, particularly the attrition rate of experienced software engineers, project managers and project leaders, could harm our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in recruiting and retaining a sufficient number of replacement technical associates with the requisite skills to replace those technical associates who leave. Further, we cannot assure you that we will be able to redeploy and retrain our technical associates to keep pace with continuing changes in evolving technologies and changing customer preferences. If we are unable to successfully recruit, retain, redeploy or retrain our technical associates, we may become less attractive to potential customers and may fail to satisfy the demands of existing customers, which would result in a decrease in revenues and profitability. We dedicate significant resources to develop international operations which may be more difficult to manage and operate. In addition to our offshore IT centers in India, we have established IT centers in Australia, Canada, China, Hungary, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States and plan to open additional international facilities. Because of our limited experience in managing and operating facilities outside of India, we are subject to additional risks related to our international expansion strategy, including risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with local conditions or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities and physical infrastructure and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. As of March 31, 2008, we had contractual commitments of approximately $101.0 million for capital expenditures, and we estimate a total spending of $125.0 million in fiscal 2009. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. These expansions will significantly increase our fixed costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to customers in the United States and in other countries, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline. The vast majority of our associates are Indian nationals. Most of our projects require a portion of the work to be completed at the customer’s location which is typically outside India. The ability of our associates to work in the United States, Europe and in other countries outside India depends on the ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits. As of March 31, 2008, the majority of our associates located outside India were in the United States and held either H-1B visas or L-1 visas, allowing the employee to remain in the United States during the term of the work permit only temporarily. Although there is no limit to new L-1 visas, there is a limit to the aggregate number of new H-1B visas that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, or CIS, may approve in any government fiscal year. The 2005 Appropriations Bill further precludes foreign companies from obtaining L-1 visas for employees with specialized knowledge: (1) if such employees will be stationed primarily at the worksite of another company in the U.S. and the employee will not be controlled and supervised by his employer, or (2) if the placement is essentially an arrangement to provide labor for hire rather than in connection with the employee’s specialized knowledge. The CIS has also issued new guidelines to more closely verify the qualifying criteria to restrict the liberal usage of L1visas. Immigration laws in the United States may also require us to meet certain levels of compensation and to comply with other legal requirements including labor certifications as a condition to obtaining or maintaining work visas for our associates working on H1B in the United States. 10 Table of Contents The CIS announced on April 8, 2008 that it had received sufficient applications to fill up all 65,000 H-1B visas that are available for the calendar year 2009. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and labor and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our employees. Our reliance on work visas for a significant number of associates makes us particularly vulnerable to such changes and variations as it affects our ability to staff projects with associates who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. As a result, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our associates or may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining the condition of such visas. We may engage in acquisitions, strategic investments, strategic partnerships or alliances or other ventures that may or may not be successful. We may acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties in order to enhance our business. It is possible that we may not be able to identify suitable acquisitions targets and candidates for strategic investments or partnerships, or if we do identify such targets or candidates, we may not be able to complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. The inability to identify suitable acquisition targets or investments or the inability to complete such transactions may affect our competitiveness and our growth prospects. If we acquire a company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology and software. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. In some cases, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. We may make strategic investments in early-stage technology start-up companies in order to gain experience in or exploit niche technologies. However, our investments may not be successful. The lack of profitability of any of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. System failure could disrupt our business. To deliver our services to our customers, we must maintain a high speed network of satellite, fiber optic and land lines and an active voice and data communications 24 hours a day between our main offices in Hyderabad, our other IT centers in India and globally and the offices of our customers worldwide. Any systems failure or a significant lapse in our ability to transmit voice and data through satellite and telephone communications could result in loss of customers and curtailed operations which would reduce our revenue and profitability. We may be liable to our customers for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failure. We are often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential customer and consumer data based on the agreements we enter into with our customers. Many of our customer agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our associates, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our customers or from our customers’ clients for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer and consumer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, system failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our customers’ businesses and provide benefits which may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a customer’s system or breaches of security could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our alleged responsibility for such failure. Generally, we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services; however these limitations on liability may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. In respect of some of our contracts, we sub-contract a part of the work to certain sub-contractors. We are liable to our customers for any breach or non-performance by our sub-contractors under the sub-contracts. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions; however this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms and may be unavailable in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. Further, an insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or results in changes in our insurance policies, including premium 11 Table of Contents increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirement, could adversely affect our operating results and profitability. Our success depends in large part upon our management team and key personnel and our ability to attract and retain them. We are highly dependent on the senior members of our management team. Our future performance will be affected by any disruptions in the continued service of these persons. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team or other key personnel, except for our chief executive officer. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain such senior management personnel or attract and retain new senior management personnel in the future. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our insiders, who are shareholders, may be able to influence the election of our board and may have interests which conflict with those of our shareholders or holders of our ADSs. Our executive officers and directors, together with members of their immediate families, beneficially owned, in the aggregate approximately 0.5% of our outstanding equity shares as of March 31, 2008. In addition, two of our executive directors control SRSR Holdings Private Limited, which holds approximately 8.3 % of our outstanding equity shares as of March 31, 2008. As a result, acting together, this group may be able to exercise influence over most matters requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the election and removal of directors and significant corporate transactions. These insider shareholders may exercise influence even if they are opposed by our other shareholders and may delay or prevent us from entering into transactions (including the acquisition of our company by third parties) that may be viewed as beneficial to us and our other shareholders. The value of our interest in our subsidiaries may decline. Satyam BPO, our wholly-owned subsidiary, has experienced losses during each year since its inception and it is likely that it will continue to experience such losses in the future. Our other acquired subsidiaries, Citisoft and Knowledge Dynamics have also experienced losses since their acquisition and they may also incur losses that might have an adverse effect on our operating results in future periods. Impairment of goodwill on account of our investments may impact our net income under U.S. GAAP. We make estimates in the preparation of financial statements including testing of goodwill for impairment, if any. Changes in such estimates resulting from events, many of which are outside of our control, may result in the impairment of goodwill which would negatively impact our net income under U.S. GAAP. Such impact on net income may result in a reduction of the market value of our shares. Stock-based compensation expenses may significantly reduce our net income. Our reported income has been and will continue to be affected by the grant of warrants, options or RSUs under our various employee benefit plans. Under the terms of our existing plans, employees are typically granted warrants, options or RSUs to purchase equity shares at a substantial discount to the current market value. Effective April 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R. We adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective transition method, which required the application of the accounting standard as of April 1, 2006, the first day of our fiscal year 2007. Under this transition method, stock-based compensation expensed for the year ended March 31, 2008 includes a) compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards granted prior to, but not yet vested as of April 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS 123 and b) Stock-based compensation expenses for all stock-based compensation awards granted after April 1, 2006 is based on the grant-date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 123R. In accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our consolidated financial statements for the prior periods have not been restated to reflect and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123R. Depending on the grant date fair value and future grants are made, amortization of deferred stock-based compensation may contribute to reducing our operating income and net income. Our subsidiaries also have stock option schemes which may generate stock-based compensation expenses and which have and in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce our operating income and net income. 12 Table of Contents Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC, regulations, the New York Stock Exchange or NYSE, rules, NYSE EURONEXT rules, Financial Markets Supervision Act (FMSA) of The Netherlands, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, rules, and Indian stock market listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time, as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such corporate governance standards. In particular, our efforts to continue to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We consistently assess the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, remediate any control deficiencies that may be identified, and validate through testing that our controls are functioning as documented. While currently we do not have any material weaknesses there can be no assurance that future tests will not result in our independent auditors being unable to issue unqualified attestation reports on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Additionally, under revised corporate governance standards adopted by the Bombay Stock Exchange Ltd, or BSE, and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited, or NSE, which we collectively refer to as the Indian Stock Exchanges, we have been required to comply with additional standards from December 31, 2005. These standards include a certification by our chief executive officer and chief financial officer that they have evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control systems and that they have disclosed to our independent auditors and our audit committee any deficiencies in the design or operation of our internal controls of which they may become aware, as well as any steps taken or proposed to resolve the deficiencies. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws, regulations or standards of corporate governance, our business and reputation may be harmed. As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic issuer, which may, among other things, limit the information available to holders of our securities. As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to requirements under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, which are different from the requirements applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. For example, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules there under with respect to their purchases and sales of our equity shares and/or ADSs. The periodic disclosure required of foreign private issuers is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of domestic U.S. issuers and therefore there may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about U.S. public companies in the United States. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the attacks of July 7, 2005 in London, the attacks of July 11, 2006 in Mumbai, the attacks of June 30, 2007 in Glasgow airport, and other acts of violence or war, such as the continuing conflict in Iraq, have the potential to have a direct impact on our customers. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the United States, our business may be significantly impacted, as the majority of our revenues are derived from customers located in the United States. In addition, such attacks may make travel more difficult, may make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of our associates who are required to work in the United States, and may effectively curtail our ability to deliver our services to our customers. Such obstacles to operate our business may increase our expenses and negatively affect the results of our operations. Many of our customers visit several IT services firms, including their offshore facilities, prior to reaching a decision on vendor selection. Terrorist threats, attacks or war could make travel to our facilities more difficult for our customers and may delay, postpone or cancel decisions to use our services. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies We are incorporated in India, and a substantial portion of our assets and our employees are located in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ADSs will be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, GoI policies, including taxation policies, as well as political, social and economic developments affecting India. The GoI has recently taken actions to curtail or eliminate tax benefits that we have historically benefited from. The statutory corporate income tax rate in India is currently 30.0%. This tax rate is presently subject to a 10.0% surcharge. The amount of tax and surcharge payable is further subject to a 3.0% education cess, resulting in an effective tax rate of 33.99%. We benefit from tax incentives provided to software entities such as an exemption from payment of Indian corporate income taxes until the earlier of fiscal 2010 or 10 consecutive years of operations for software development facilities designated as “Software Technology Parks,” or STP units. The benefits of this tax incentive have historically resulted in our effective tax rate being well below statutory rates. The exemption for our STP units was reduced from 100.0% to 90.0% from fiscal 2003. The exemption for two of our STP units in Hyderabad expired at the beginning of fiscal 2006, one STP unit in Bangalore expired at the beginning of fiscal 2007, one STP unit each in Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune and Bhubaneswar expired at the beginning of fiscal 2008. The benefit for one STP unit in Hyderabad expired at the beginning of fiscal 2009 and the remaining thirteen STP units, including five in Hyderabad, three in Chennai, two in Bangalore and one each in Visakhapatnam, Gurgaon and Pune were scheduled to expire after fiscal 2009. The GoI has extended the tax exemption for STP units by one year to March 31, 2010, pursuant to the extension, the exemption for the balance thirteen of our STP units will be extended by one year and expire in fiscal 2010. We also earn certain other foreign income and domestic income, which is taxable irrespective of the above tax exemption. When our tax holidays expire or terminate, our tax expense will materially increase, reducing our profitability. We cannot assure you as to what action the present or future governments of India will take regarding tax incentives for the IT industry. In addition, we are in the process of setting up many offices in various special economic zones (SEZs) in India which are subject to the SEZ Act, 2005. SEZs have many tax incentives, including 100% exemption from income tax for the first 5 years and 50% for the next 5 years. Foreign investment restrictions under Indian law may adversely impact the value of our ADSs, including, for example, restrictions that limit your ability to reconvert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to the market price of our ADSs. Our equity shares are listed and traded on the Indian Stock Exchanges, and they may trade on these stock exchanges at a discount or premium to the ADSs traded on the NYSE and NYSE EURONEXT, in part because of restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying shares. Our ADSs are freely convertible into our equity shares under the deposit agreement governing their issuance, or the Deposit Agreement. The Reserve Bank of India, or RBI, prescribes fungibility regulations permitting, subject to compliance with certain terms and conditions, the reconversion of equity shares to ADSs provided that such equity shares are purchased from an Indian Stock Exchange through stock brokers and the actual number of ADSs outstanding after such reconversion is not greater than the original number of ADSs outstanding. If you elect to surrender your ADSs and receive equity shares, you will only be able to trade those equity shares on an Indian Stock Exchange and, under present law, it is unlikely you will be permitted to reconvert those equity shares to ADSs. Additionally, investors who exchange ADSs for the underlying equity shares and are not holders of record will be required to declare to us details of the holder of record, and the holder of record will be required to disclose the details of the beneficial owner. Any investor who fails to comply with this requirement may be liable for a fine of up to Rs.1,000 for each day such failure continues. Such restrictions on fungibility of the underlying equity shares to ADSs may cause our equity shares to trade at a discount or premium to the ADSs. The sale of equity shares underlying the ADSs by a person not resident in India to a resident of India does not require the prior approval of the RBI, provided such sales are effected through the Indian Stock Exchanges. Any sale of such underlying equity shares by a person not resident in India to a resident of India outside of the Indian Stock Exchanges can, however, be completed without prior RBI approval, provided such equity shares are transferred based on a pricing formula established by the Indian foreign exchange laws which set a maximum price requirement for sale of such equity shares. 14 Table of Contents Regional conflicts or natural disasters in South Asia and elsewhere could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. In recent years there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan that have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the India-Pakistan border. There has also been a recent increase in the incidence of terrorist attacks in India, including bombings at Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. In addition, as an international company, our offshore and onsite operations may be impacted by natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, disease and health epidemics. In December 2004, certain parts of India were severely affected by a tsunami triggered by an earthquake in the Indian Ocean, and in October 2005, certain parts of northern India, Pakistan and Afghanistan were severely devastated by a major earthquake. Though our operations were not affected by these disasters, we cannot guarantee that in the future our operations will not be affected by the effect such natural disasters may have on the economies of India and other countries in the region. Political instability could seriously harm business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. During the past decade, the GoI has pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. The general elections in 2004 for the lower house of the Indian Parliament resulted in no party winning an absolute majority and a coalition government was formed. We cannot assure you that these liberalization policies will continue in the future. Government corruption scandals and protests against privatization could slow down the pace of liberalization and deregulation. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the value of our ADSs and our financial condition. Our functional currency is the Indian rupee, although we transact a major portion of our business in U.S. dollars and several other currencies and accordingly face foreign currency exposure through our sales in the United States and elsewhere and purchases from overseas suppliers in U.S. dollars and other currencies. Historically, we have held a substantial majority of our cash funds in rupees. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, other income, cost of services sold, gross margin and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The exchange rate between the rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. In fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2006, our U.S. dollar-denominated revenues represented 71.7%, 74.7% and 77.6% respectively, of our total revenues. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in U.S. dollars for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in rupees. Consequently, our results of operations will be adversely affected to the extent that the rupee appreciates against the U.S. dollar. Depreciation of the rupee will result in foreign currency translation losses in respect of foreign currency borrowings, if any. We have sought to reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results by entering into foreign exchange forward and options contracts to cover a portion of outstanding accounts receivable. As of March 31, 2008 and 2007, we had outstanding forward and options contracts in the amount of $1,133.1 million and $ 452.6 million respectively. We may not be able to purchase contracts adequate to insulate ourselves from foreign exchange currency risks. Additionally, the policies of the RBI may change from time to time which may limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposures adequately. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the rupee and the U.S. dollar will also affect the U.S. dollar conversion by our Depositary of any cash dividends paid in rupees on the equity shares represented by the ADSs. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Indian rupee price of our equity shares on the Indian Stock Exchanges. As a result, these fluctuations are likely to affect the prices of our ADSs. These fluctuations will also affect the dollar value of the proceeds a holder would receive upon the sale in India of any equity shares 15 Table of Contents withdrawn from our Depositary under the deposit agreement. We cannot assure you that holders of ADSs will be able to convert rupee proceeds into U.S. dollars or any other currency or with respect to the rate at which any such conversion could occur. In addition, our market valuation could be seriously harmed by the devaluation of the rupee if U.S. investors analyze our value based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to acquire companies organized outside India as part of our growth strategy depends on the approval of the GoI and/or the RBI and failure to obtain this approval could negatively impact our business. We have developed a growth strategy based on, among other things, expanding our presence in existing and new markets and selectively pursuing joint venture and acquisition opportunities. Foreign exchange laws in India presently permit Indian companies to acquire or invest in foreign companies without any prior governmental approval if the transaction amount does not exceed 400% of the net worth of the foreign company as of the date of its most recent audited balance sheet. If consideration for the transaction is paid out of the proceeds of an American Depositary Receipt, or ADR, or Global Depositary Receipt, or GDR, sale, Indian exchange control laws do not impose any investment limits. Acquisitions in excess of the 400% net worth threshold require prior RBI approval. It is possible that any required approval from the RBI may not be obtained. Our failure to obtain approvals for acquisitions of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, or if we infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, our business may be harmed. The laws of India do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws in the United States. Further, the global nature of our business makes it difficult for us to control the ultimate destination of our products and services. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could curtail our operations or reduce our profitability. We rely upon a combination of non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements and copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Ownership of software and associated deliverables created for customers is generally retained by or assigned to our customers, and we do not retain an interest in such software and deliverables. We have registered “Satyam” and other related marks in India and the United States under certain classes and have applied for the registration of such marks in other jurisdictions where we carry on business. We currently require our technical associates to enter into non-disclosure and assignment of rights agreements to limit use of, access to and distribution of confidential and proprietary information. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Although we believe that our services and products do not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, we cannot assure you that such a claim will not be asserted against us in the future. Assertion of such claims against us could result in litigation, and we cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation or be able to obtain a license for the use of any infringed intellectual property from a third party on reasonable commercial terms. We expect that the risk of infringement claims against us will increase if more of our competitors are able to obtain patents for software products and processes. Any such claims, regardless of their outcome, could result in substantial cost to us and divert the management’s attention from our operations. In the future, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any infringement claim or litigation against us could therefore result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Indian laws limit our ability to raise capital outside India and may limit the ability of others to acquire us, which could prevent us from operating our business or entering into a transaction that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Presently, Indian technology companies such as ours are able to raise capital outside of India without the prior approval of any Indian governmental authority through an ADR or GDR issuance or an issuance of convertible debt securities so long as the proceeds are kept outside India and used only for specified permitted purposes, and subject with respect to convertible debt issuances to a limit of $500 million in any fiscal year. Changes to Indian foreign exchange laws may create restrictions on our capital raising abilities. For example, a limit on the foreign equity ownership of Indian technology companies may constrain our ability to seek and obtain additional equity investment by foreign investors. In addition, these restrictions, if applied to us, may 16 Table of Contents prevent us from entering into certain transactions, such as an acquisition by a non-Indian company, which might otherwise be beneficial for us and the holders of our equity shares and ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of our equity shares and our ADSs. The Indian securities markets are more volatile than securities markets in more developed economies. The Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of listed securities and the price of our equity shares has been especially volatile. The Indian Stock Exchanges have also experienced problems that have affected the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies. These problems have included temporary exchange closures, the suspension of stock exchange administration, broker defaults, settlement delays and strikes by brokers. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian Stock Exchanges have, from time to time, restricted securities from trading, limited price movements and restricted margin requirements. Moreover, from time to time, disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have had a negative effect on market sentiment. Similar problems could occur in the future and, if they do, they could harm the market price and liquidity of our equity shares and our ADSs. It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of the Republic of India. Many of our directors and key managerial personnel and some of the experts named in this document reside outside the United States. In addition, virtually all of our assets and the assets of many of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, you may be unable to: • effect service of process upon us outside India or these persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence; or • enforce against us in courts outside of India or these persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence, judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our Indian counsel, that the United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in India. However, the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered may bring a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment which has been obtained in the United States. If and to the extent Indian courts were of the opinion that fairness and good faith so required, it would, under current practice, give binding effect to the final judgment which had been rendered in the United States unless such a judgment was founded on a claim which breached the laws of India. You may be subject to Indian taxes arising out of capital gains on the sale of the underlying equity shares. Generally, capital gains, whether short-term or long-term, arising from the sale of the underlying equity shares in India are subject to Indian capital gains tax. For the purpose of computing the amount of capital gains subject to tax, Indian law specifies that the cost of acquisition of the equity shares will be deemed to be the share price prevailing on the BSE or the NSE on the date the Depositary advises the custodian to exchange receipts for underlying equity shares. The period of holding of such equity shares, for determining whether the gain is long-term or short-term, commences on the date of the giving of such notice by our Depositary to the custodian. With effect from October 1, 2004, any gains realized on the sale of listed equity shares held for more than 12 months to an Indian resident, or a non-resident investor in India, will not be subject to Indian capital gains tax if the securities transaction tax has been paid on the transaction. Investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors and to consider carefully the potential tax consequences of an investment in our ADSs. There may be less company information available in Indian securities markets than securities markets in other countries. There is a difference between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants and that of markets in the United States and other developed economies. SEBI is responsible for improving disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. SEBI has issued regulations and guidelines on disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in developed economies. 17 Table of Contents Risk Related to our ADSs and our Trading Market Historically, our ADSs have traded at a significant premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares, a situation which may not continue. Historically, our ADSs have traded on the NYSE at a substantial premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares on the Indian Stock Exchanges. We believe that this price premium has resulted from the relatively small portion of our market capitalization represented by ADSs, restrictions imposed by Indian law on the conversion of equity shares into ADSs, and an apparent preference for some investors to trade U.S. dollar-denominated securities. Over time, some of the restrictions on the issuance of the ADSs imposed by Indian law have been relaxed and we expect that other restrictions may be relaxed in the future. As a result, the historical premium enjoyed by ADSs as compared to equity shares may be reduced or eliminated due to sponsored ADS offering or similar transactions in the future, a change in Indian law permitting further conversion of equity shares into ADSs or changes in investor preferences. You may be restricted in your ability to exercise preemptive rights under Indian law and thereby may suffer future dilution of your ownership position. Under the Companies Act, 1956 of India, or the Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages before the issuance of any new equity shares, unless the preemptive rights have been waived by adopting a special resolution by holders of three-fourths of the shares which are voted on the resolution. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to the rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Our decision to file a registration statement will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any given registration statement as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of our ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights and any other factors that we deem appropriate to consider at the time the decision must be made. We may elect not to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights otherwise available by law to you. In the case of future issuances, the new securities may be issued to our Depositary, which may sell the securities for your benefit. The value, if any, our Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities cannot be predicted. To the extent that you are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by your ADSs, your proportional interests in our company would be reduced. Holders of ADSs may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, our Depositary will mail to you any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct our Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If our Depositary timely receives voting instructions from you, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by your ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of our Depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure you that you will receive voting materials in time to enable you to return voting instructions to our Depositary in a timely manner. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. Under Indian law, subject to the presence in person at a shareholder meeting of persons holding equity shares representing a quorum, all resolutions proposed to be approved at that meeting are voted on by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by a shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy holding at least 10.0% of the total shares entitled to vote on the resolution or by those holding shares with an aggregate paid up value of at least Rs. 50,000. Equity shares not represented in person at the meeting, including equity shares underlying ADSs for which a holder has provided voting instructions to our Depositary, are not counted in a vote by show of hands. As a result, only in the event that a shareholder present at the meeting demands that a poll be taken will the votes of ADS holders be counted. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted on a poll. As a foreign private issuer, we are not subject to the SEC’s proxy rules, which regulate the form and content of solicitations by U.S.-based issuers of proxies from their shareholders. To-date, our practice has been to provide advance notice to our ADS holders of all shareholder meetings and to solicit their vote on such matters through our Depositary, and we expect to continue this practice. The form of notice and proxy statement that we have been using does not include all of the information that would be provided under the SEC’s proxy rules. 18 Table of Contents An active or liquid trading market for our ADSs is not assured. We cannot predict the extent to which an active, liquid public trading market for our ADSs will exist. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. The lack of an active, liquid trading market could result in the loss of market makers, media attention and analyst coverage. If there is no longer a market for our equity shares, or if we fail to continue to meet eligibility requirements, we may be required to delist from the NYSE or NYSE EURONEXT and this may cause our share prices to decrease significantly. In addition, if there is a prolonged decline in the price of our equity shares, we may not be able to issue equity securities to fund our growth, which would cause us to limit our growth or to incur higher cost funding, such as short-term or long-term debt. Liquidity of a securities market is often a function of the volume of the underlying shares that are publicly held by unrelated parties. Although you are entitled to withdraw the equity shares underlying the ADSs from our Depositary at any time, there is no public market for our equity shares in the United States. The future sales of securities by our company or existing shareholders may harm the price of our ADSs or our equity shares. The market price of our ADSs or our equity shares could decline as a result of sales of a large number of ADSs or equity shares or the perception that such sales could occur. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell ADSs or equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 31, 2008, we had an aggregate of equity shares outstanding of 668,277,613 (excluding 2,201,680 equity shares held by the Satyam Associate Trust), which includes underlying equity shares of 130,505,900 represented by 65,252,950 ADSs. In addition, as of March 31, 2008 we had outstanding options to purchase approximately 21,908,995 of our equity shares. All ADSs are freely tradable, other than ADSs purchased by our affiliates. The remaining equity shares outstanding may be sold in the United States only pursuant to a registration statement under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. 