Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be harmed. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are not currently known to us or that we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors may be larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. The industries in which we operate are fragmented and we do not face competition from any one company across our product lines. Any increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced gross margins. This may impair our ability to grow or even to maintain our current levels of revenues and earnings. Companies that operate in our industry include Carlisle, 10 Table of Contents Degussa, GE Plastics, ICI, Masco, PPG, Rohm and Haas, Sika Finanz, Sherwin-Williams and Valspar. Several of these companies are larger than us and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could prevent the institution of price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending on research and development and marketing and sales, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. Changes to the Company’s asbestos liability could impact our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we recorded a liability on our balance sheet for estimated pending and unasserted potential future asbestos claims, including defense costs, through fiscal 2016. The amount that we recorded for asbestos-related liability relied on assumptions that are based on currently known facts and the input of an independent third party expert. The process and methodology used to develop this long-term asbestos liability reserve are set forth in Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in the 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders. Our actual expenses could be significantly higher or lower than those recorded if the assumptions that we used or relied upon vary significantly from actual results or if federal trust fund legislation governing asbestos claims is enacted. We review these assumptions on a periodic basis to determine whether adjustments are required to our recorded asbestos-related liability. Adjustments, if any, to the estimate of our recorded asbestos-related liability could negatively impact the results of operations for the period or periods in which such adjustments are made. See Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in the 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information regarding asbestos claims. The chemical and construction products industries in which we serve expose us to inherent risks of legal claims and other litigation-related costs, which could adversely impact our business. As a participant in the chemical and construction products industries, we face an inherent risk of exposure to legal claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. For example, one of our subsidiaries, Dryvit Systems, Inc. (“Dryvit”), a manufacturer of coatings for exterior insulating finishing systems, or EIFS, is a defendant or co-defendant in numerous ongoing property damage claims related to the alleged defects of EIFS. Some of the EIFS claims also stem from alleged personal injuries from exposure to mold. Dryvit’s and our insurers, which include First Colonial Insurance Company, one of our wholly owned captive insurance companies, have in the past paid for a substantial portion of Dryvit’s defense and/or settlement costs in the EIFS-related litigation. Dryvit has recently sued certain of our third party insurers to cover certain of its EIFS claims. If we are unable to secure payments from these insurers in an amount sufficient to cover the insurance receivable, our business, cash flows and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted. For further information regarding our EIFS litigation, please refer to Note H of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders. 11 Table of Contents We depend on a number of large customers for a significant portion of our net sales and, therefore, significant declines in the level of purchases by any of these key customers could harm our business. Some of our operating companies, particularly in the consumer segment, face a substantial amount of customer concentration. Our key customers include Ace Hardware Stores, Canadian Tire, Cotter & Company, Do It Best, The Home Depot, Lowe’s Home Centers, Menards, Orgill, W.W. Grainger and Wal-Mart. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 22%, 25% and 25% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and 55%, 57% and 55% of the consumer segment’s net sales for the same years. Sales to The Home Depot accounted for approximately 10%, 11% and 11% of our consolidated net sales and 25%, 26% and 25% of our consumer segment net sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. If we lose one or more of our key customers or experience a delay or cancellation of a significant order or a decrease in the level of purchases from any of our key customers, our net revenues could decline and our operating results and business could be harmed. In addition, our net revenues could decline and our operating results and business could be harmed if we experience any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more of our key customers. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and downward economic cycles may reduce our business. Many of our customers, especially in our industrial segment, are in businesses and industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions and other factors, including consumer spending and preferences. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Downward economic cycles affecting the industries of our customers may reduce sales of our products resulting in reductions to our revenues and net earnings. If our efforts in acquiring and integrating other companies or product lines fail, our business may not grow. As part of our growth strategy, we have pursued, and intend to continue pursuing, acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and joint ventures. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or joint ventures depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate and complete suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. In addition, acquisitions and integration of those acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: • inaccurate assessments of disclosed liabilities and the potentially adverse effects of undisclosed liabilities; • difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits from acquired companies or products, including projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and profit margins; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • difficulties resulting from our lack of or limited prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • difficulties in retaining key employees and customers of the acquired businesses; and 12 Table of Contents • increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could in turn restrict our ability to access additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy. Our acquisition strategy with respect to some companies or product lines could fail or could result in unanticipated costs to us that are not readily apparent, any of which could hinder our growth or adversely impact our results of operations. Our significant amount of indebtedness could have an adverse impact on our operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our total debt increased from $719.9 million at May 31, 2004 to approximately $876.6 million at May 31, 2006, largely as a result of acquisition activities during that time period. This compares with approximately $925.9 million in stockholders’ equity at May 31, 2006. Nevertheless, our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it: • may require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments or other general corporate purposes; • could result in a downgrading of our credit rating, which would increase our borrowing costs and subsequently diminish our financial results and also would likely require us to pay a higher interest rate in future financings which could cause our potential pool of investors and funding sources to decrease; • may restrict our operations since our credit facility contains certain financial and operating covenants; or • may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to a competitor that may have less debt. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our foreign manufacturing operations accounted for approximately 25% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2006, not including exports directly from the United States which accounted for 3% of our net sales for fiscal 2006. Our international operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in increases or decreases in our costs and earnings and may adversely affect the value of our assets outside the United States. 13 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials may negatively impact our financial results. We obtain the raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. Many of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market and from a variety of producers. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials, or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. If the prices of raw materials increase, and we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, we could experience reduced profit margins. Costs of certain raw materials, particularly resins and petroleum-based feedstocks, have continued to increase over the last 30 months. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2006, increased raw material costs negatively impacted our consolidated gross profit margin by approximately 210 basis points. The costs of raw materials have further increased due to the broad impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita on the petrochemical industry. If such cost increases continue, our results of operations could be significantly adversely impacted. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. Our family of products includes a number of well-known brand names that are used in a variety of industrial maintenance, consumer do-it-yourself and professional applications. We believe that continuing to maintain the strength of our brands is critical to increasing demand for and maintaining widespread acceptance of our products. The reputation of our branded products depend on numerous factors, including the successful advertising and marketing of our brand names, consumer acceptance, the availability of similar products from our competitors and our ability to maintain our product quality through research and product development. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. Environmental laws and regulations could subject us to significant future expenditures or liabilities, which could have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that impose various environmental controls on us or otherwise relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes, and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. These laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up our, or our predecessors’, past or present facilities, and at third party disposal sites. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of facilities and properties, and have received notices under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or analogous state laws of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our current or former operations. Further, we also could be subject to future liability resulting from conditions that are currently unknown to us that could be discovered in the future. Our expenditures related to environmental matters have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. However, the environmental laws under which we operate are 14 Table of Contents numerous, complicated and often increasingly stringent, and may be applied retroactively. In addition, if we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We also could be liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances relating to our products or operations. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to make additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our material trademarks and other proprietary information. We have numerous valuable patents, trade secrets and know-how, domain names, trademarks and trade names, including certain marks that are material to our business, which are identified under Item 1 of this Report. Despite our efforts to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, other parties, including our former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or marks without our authorization. Unauthorized use of our trademarks, or unauthorized use or disclosure of our other intellectual property, could negatively impact our business and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 