D. Risk Factors The risk factors below are associated with our company and our American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”). An investment in our ADSs involves a high degree of risk. Before purchasing our ADSs, you should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and, in particular, the risks 3 Table of Contents described below. If any of the following risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely suffer materially, the market price of our ADSs could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our ADSs. The risks and uncertainties below are not the only ones we face, but represent the risks that we believe are material. However, there may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware and these risks could have the effects set forth above. Risks Related to Our Business Our customers may stop or reduce their outsourcing, which will reduce demand for our services and cause our revenue to decrease. We depend on the trend towards increased outsourcing of assembly and test services by integrated device manufacturers. Integrated device manufacturers continually evaluate our services against their own in-house assembly and test services and may decide to shift some or all of their outsourced assembly and test services to their internal capacity at any time. Any shift or a slowdown in this outsourcing trend would reduce demand for our services and cause our revenue to decrease. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and the loss of one or more of our significant customers could reduce our profitability. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 91% in 2007, 91% in 2006, 87% in 2005, 81% in 2004 and 81% in 2003 of our total revenues (including revenue generated by discontinuing operations). Infineon Technologies, Inc. (Infineon) has been our largest customer since 2003, accounting for approximately 49%, 48% and 35% of our total revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. On June 19, 2006, we entered into Sales and Investment Agreement with Infineon Technologies (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (Infineon-Malaysia) for the supply of certain power packaging devices for one-year period. The Sales and Investment Agreement requires Infineon-Malaysia a minimum number of power devices to be purchased with us. This Agreement expired on January 23, 2008. However, we continue to trade these devices to Infineon-Malaysia with no fixed volume requirement. If our relationship with Infineon were to erode, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We have lost major customers in the past and could lose other major customers in the future. For example, in 2005, Fairchild Korea Semiconductor (Fairchild Korea) terminated its relationship with us. Fairchild Korea accounted for 1.9%, 3.1% and 5.6% of our total revenues in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We cannot guarantee that we can generate the same level of sales from our largest customers and we cannot ascertain that they will not solicit alternative suppliers. Many of our major customers operate in cyclical businesses that are also highly competitive, and their own demand and market positions may vary considerably. Such customers have in the past and may in the future vary order levels significantly from period to period. It would be difficult for us to quickly replace a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its commercial relationship with us, as new customers usually require us to pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process. Also, semiconductor companies generally rely on service providers with which they have established relationships to meet their assembly and testing needs for existing and future applications. If any one of our key customers were to reduce its purchases significantly, any inability on our part to attract new major customers or shift our excess production capacity to our remaining customers could materially impact our financial viability and profitability. Most of our customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum amount of our products or services. We may not receive sufficient customer orders in the future to meet our costs and remain profitable. Most of our customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum amount of our assembly and test services or to provide us with binding forecasts of their demand for any period. As a result, we have difficulty in forecasting our revenue for any future period. We expect that revenue in any quarter will continue to be 4 Table of Contents substantially dependent on orders received during that quarter. The level of orders we receive from our customers has varied and may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. In some cases, we experienced unfilled orders as our customers encountered wafer supply constraints arising from the time required to ramp-up their wafer fabrication facilities. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as they have had in prior periods. We depend on our customers to provide us with a satisfactory supply of wafers, and shortages or disputes regarding the supply and quality of wafers may reduce our ability to fill our customers’ orders, reduce our revenue and increase our costs. Our operations and general competitiveness depend on a satisfactory supply of wafers from our customers for assembly and test services. Shortages or shipments of defective wafers can result from supply chain interruptions, including disruptions from a change in manufacturing site or wafer provider, and inferior manufacturing or design flaws. Moreover, disputes as to the origin of defects and responsibility for defective wafers or dice already built into finished products could strain our relationships with existing customers. An insufficient supply of wafers, defective wafers, defective dice in finished products and any disputes relating thereto could reduce our ability to fulfill our customers’ orders, decrease our revenue, increase our costs and materially impact our financial viability and profitability. The average selling price for electronic devices tends to decrease over the product life cycle, which may force us to lower our prices and reduce our profitability. The decreasing average selling price of most electronic devices places significant pressure on the prices of the components, including semiconductors that are used in those devices. If the average selling price of electronic devices continues to decrease, the pricing pressure on our services may reduce our revenue and our gross profit. Pricing pressure on our assembly and test services is likely to continue and our ability to maintain or increase our profitability will depend in large part upon our ability to: • reduce our raw material costs; • improve production efficiency; • increase the number of units assembled and tested; and • shift to higher margin test and assembly services or products. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for a discussion of the historical decline of our average selling price. We may be unable to obtain assembly or test equipment when we need it, which will prevent us from expanding our business and increasing our revenue. Our operations and expansion plans are highly dependent upon our ability to obtain a significant amount of capital equipment, which is manufactured by a limited number of suppliers. In periods of high demand, the lead time from order to delivery for assembly and test equipment ranges from four to six months. If we cannot obtain equipment in a timely manner, we may be unable to fill our customers’ orders or accept orders from new customers, which could reduce revenue and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to recoup the cost of significant capital expenditures made in anticipation of increased sales, which would have a negative effect on our profitability and financial viability. We increased and plan to continue to increase our assembly and test capacity in order to grow our business. This required and will require substantial capital expenditures, primarily for additional assembly and test equipment, and facilities support equipment. We have already made and will continue to make these capital 5 Table of Contents expenditures and we cannot assure you that our sales will increase or that our revenues and cash flow are sufficient to cover these capital expenditures and the outcomes and results of our investments and capital expenditures may differ materially from our expectations. Our failure to increase our revenue and/or margins or obtain additional financing following significant capital expenditures could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, as we may not be able to offset our increased costs, cash flow requirements and related depreciation expense. We need a significant amount of capital to fund our capital expenditures and execute our business strategies. We may be unable to repay short-term suppliers and bank credit facilities incurred to fund our capital expenditures program, which would have a negative effect on our operations and financial viability. We may not have sufficient cash flow from operations or available lines of credit to pay our liabilities with our suppliers and outstanding bank loans. Therefore, we may have to raise capital by accessing external financing sources to meet such liabilities. The terms of any new funding we obtain could restrict our future operations and affect your investment in a number of ways, including, but not limited to: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to the payment of interest and principal due from such obligations, which may reduce funds available for other business purposes; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • forcing us to sell assets or terminate or suspend some of our planned expansion projects; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds because of financial and other restrictive covenants governing our debt. In July 2003, we issued a $4.0 million, 5-year exchangeable senior subordinated note (2003 Note) to Merrill Lynch Global Emerging Markets Partners, LLC (Merrill Lynch LLC), an affiliate of Merrill Lynch Global Emerging Market Partners, L.P. (Merrill Lynch), due on June 1, 2008 which bears interest at a rate of 10% per annum, net of Philippine withholding tax. The 2003 Note was issued to pay off certain liabilities related to our capital expenditures incurred in 2002, which were due by the end of the second and third quarters of 2003 and could not be paid out of current cash flow from operations or available lines of credit. Further, in June 2005, we issued a $7.0 million, 4-year exchangeable senior subordinated note (2005 Note) to Merrill Lynch LLC, due on June 1, 2009, which bears interest at a rate of 10% per annum, net of Philippine withholding tax. The proceeds of the 2005 Note was used to partially finance capital expenditures related to the introduction of our company’s Power QFN (Quad Flat No-Lead) Package and for the repayment of due and outstanding suppliers’ credits and capital expenditures payables. On May 30, 2008, our company and Merrill Lynch LLC executed the first amendment to the 2003 Note extending the maturity of the 2003 Note from June 1, 2008 to July 31, 2008. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—The Merrill Lynch Exchangeable Notes.” We have a $10 million credit facility from the Singapore Branch of Raiffeisen Zentralbank Oesterreich AG (RZB-Austria) of which $8.8 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007. The credit facility has been available to our company since 2002 and has been renewed annually every year thereafter until December 31, 2006. On April 27, 2007, we entered into a Second Supplemental Agreement (Second Agreement) with RZB-Austria under which the credit facility was extended from December 31, 2006 through March 31, 2008. We are currently in the process of finalizing the documentation and contractual requirements for the extension of the $10.0 million credit facility from RZB-Austria. We have a $3 million revolving promissory note, including a letter of credit of up to $450,000 with Philippine Veterans Bank (PVB) a local commercial bank. The facility is subject to annual review by PVB on or 6 Table of Contents before April 11 of each year until April 11, 2010 and is available in multiple draw downs of up to 90-days. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate outstanding amount under this facility was $1.3 million. On May 16, 2008, the board of directors of PVB after completing its annual review of our existing $3.0 million credit facility, approved an increase of the letter of credit from $450,000 to $1.5 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain other financings with satisfactory terms to support our future operations and plans. Failure to obtain any such required additional financings or generate sufficient cash flows to meet our financing obligations could have a material adverse effect on our company. Also, we may not be able to renew our existing credit facilities nor repay these obligations when they mature. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt will depend on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, any future borrowings we make will most likely be subject to covenants limiting our operating and financial flexibility and would require the consent of Merrill Lynch LLC. The recurring losses from our operations and negative net working capital position raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred recurring losses since 2001. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $9.7 million, $11.6 million and $19.7 million, respectively, while deficit amounted to $71.4 million as of December 31, 2007 and $61.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Further, our negative working capital amounted to $15.2 million as of December 31, 2007 and $13.4 million as of December 31, 2006. In 2007 and 2006, we recognized provision for impairment losses on certain property, plant and equipment amounting to $0.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively, primarily due to low sales volume, and idle machinery and equipment that our company no longer uses in its operations and has zero salvage value. The foregoing conditions, risks and uncertainties raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern and may affect our ability to develop advanced technology and expanded services, compete against companies with greater operating capacity and financial resources, increase production capacity, obtain assembly and test equipment to meet the demand for our products and services, obtain favorable terms from suppliers, and repay bank loans and obtain additional bank credit facilities. Our continued operation as a going concern is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and/or seek other sources of financing; however, there are no assurances that positive operating results can be achieved or that any additional financing or refinancing can be obtained on favorable terms. We plan to mitigate our going concern risk by engaging in cost reduction measures through plant closures, rationalizing our capital expenditures and promoting better operating efficiencies. In addition, we plan to increase our revenue by targeting higher volume and margin sales from existing and new customers. We rely on external financing for major capital expenditures to support our strategic expansion. Currently, we are in discussions with the Philippine Export and Import Credit Agency, to guarantee a syndicated term loan amounting to $15 million. Further, as of July 11, 2008, the PVB and the Bank of Commerce have obtained their management approval to proceed with the due diligence and support for the syndicated loan amounting to $5.0 million and $10 million, respectively. We are dependent on entering into financing arrangements with third parties to meet our financing obligations. The 2003 Exchangeable Senior Subordinated Note (the “2003 Note”) issued to Merrill Lynch LLC was amended to mature on July 31, 2008, all other terms and conditions apply. On July 31, 2008, Merrill Lynch LLC may opt to redeem the note together with the accrued interest and any unpaid interest. The Board of Directors in its May 26, 2008 meeting, after reviewing the financial condition of the company and in consideration of the maturity date, terms and conditions of the 2003 Note has delegated to the Audit Committee the negotiation with Merrill Lynch LLC regarding the extension of the 2003 Note to June 2009. The Audit Committee, being an independent body, in its subsequent meetings has reviewed the financial position of the company and in consideration of the general business environment, including the performance of the company’s share price, has proposed a term sheet which is currently under discussion. As of July 11, 2008, the Audit Committee and Merrill Lynch LLC have reached an agreement in principle for the extension. 7 Table of Contents For more information on these arrangements, see “Note 9 of the Consolidated Financial Statements”. We may be unable to repay short-term suppliers and bank credit facilities incurred to fund our capital expenditures program, which would have a negative effect on our operations and financial viability” as discussed in the section of this Annual Report of Form 20-F entitled “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.” In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs adversely impact our financial results. We are driven to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures and, at the same time, we are also faced with a decline in utilization rates in our plants due to decreases in demand for our power packages. Because our industry is characterized by high fixed costs, we are not always able to reduce our total costs in line with revenue declines. Reduced average selling prices for our power packages, will adversely affect our results of operations. Although we achieved a gross profit of $4.7 million in 2007, an increase of 26.5% as compared to gross profit of $3.7 million in 2006 resulting from changes in package mix, process improvements and cost reduction initiatives, and increase in sales volume in our Laguna facility, we cannot assure you that difficult market conditions will not affect the capacity utilization of our plants and consequently, our future gross profit margins. Further, increased competition in the power semiconductor sector may lead to further price erosion, lower revenue growth rates and lower gross profit margins in the future. We depend on a limited number of suppliers to provide us with sufficient quantities of raw materials on a timely basis at acceptable quality and price levels in order to sustain our operations. It is important to our operations and general competitiveness that we obtain raw materials from our vendors in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities and qualities and at competitive prices. We obtain most of our critical materials from a limited group of suppliers on a purchase order basis and without the benefit of long-term contracts. Some of our suppliers provide us with equipment and raw materials on a credit basis, with payment for such items deferred until a later date. Our failure to repay our liabilities with these suppliers in a timely manner could cause our suppliers to cease in providing us with such credits or such materials. The loss of such supplier credits or materials could have an adverse impact on our business and operations, including our ability to meet our customers’ requirements. Shortages occur in our essential raw materials due to interruptions or limitations in supply or increased demand in the industry. While we believe that we have identified adequate alternative suppliers for our raw materials, any transition to a new supplier could take time, increase costs and disrupt our business. In the past, we have experienced difficulty obtaining acceptable raw materials on a timely basis and delays in the delivery of raw materials we have ordered. We have experienced delays in the delivery of lead frames from a major European supplier, due to the inability of the supplier to source copper base material on a timely basis. As copper supply remains constrained, we may continue to occasionally experience these delays in delivery. We may reject and return to our suppliers those raw materials that do not meet our quality criteria. While we believe that we have identified suppliers according to specific qualification criteria, we cannot assure you that our suppliers will supply us with raw materials that consistently meet our quality criteria. This may limit the amount of raw materials available to meet customers’ order requirements. Our inability to obtain satisfactory raw materials could limit our ability to fill our customer orders and/or increase our costs relative to the revenues that we generate. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems in the future. Our quarterly and annual results of operations would be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials or equipment in a timely manner or if there were significant increases in the cost of raw materials or problems with the quality of these raw materials. Our financial condition may be adversely affected by credit risk. Our customers are from time to time are indebted to us as a result of normal trading arrangements with them. We attempt to mitigate credit risk through customer diversification to minimize customer concentration 8 Table of Contents and by screening our customers for creditworthiness. However, the information provided to us by our customers may not be accurate, complete, updated or properly evaluated, which may create a risk of having delinquent customers or uncollected receivables. Neither can we assure you that our policies, procedures and ability to diversify and manage credit risk will be effective. Although none of our customers has defaulted on their payments to us due to bankruptcy, deterioration of their creditworthiness, lack of liquidity, operational failure, or other reasons, we cannot assure you that such an event will not occur. We may suffer financially and our liquidity may be severely impaired if our customers will not pay us according to contractual terms of payment. We may be unable to increase our production capacity to meet the demand for our products and services. In 2007, we acquired property, plant and equipment totaling $3.4 million (including equipment acquired on account through suppliers’ credits of $0.4 million as of December 31, 2007) for our Taguig and Laguna manufacturing facilities. If we experience delays in the purchase and delivery of equipment needed to expand and support our capacity, we may not be able to meet the demand for our products and services. Our inability to expand capacity could reduce our ability to meet customer needs, which may prompt our customers to place orders with our competitors. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry resulting periodic overcapacity of our manufacturing facilities may seriously harm our company. Our operations are substantially affected by market conditions in the semiconductor industry, which are highly cyclical and, at various times, have experienced significant economic downturns characterized by reduced product demand and production overcapacity, which can result in the erosion of average selling prices. The semiconductor industry experienced a significant downturn in 2001 and the lingering effects of that downturn adversely affected our operating results in the succeeding years. The 2001 downturn was characterized by production overcapacity, reduced product demand, excessive inventories and rapid erosion of average selling prices. Historically, companies in the semiconductor industry (including ourselves and our competitors) have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. As a result, periods of overcapacity in the semiconductor industry have in the past followed periods of increased demand. In addition, the markets for semiconductors are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, intense competition and fluctuations in end-user demand. In 2002, the market for semiconductors stabilized, registering growth in worldwide semiconductor revenues as measured by Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA)/World Semiconductor Trade Statistics (WSTS) of 1.3%. The market has continued to expand through 2007, with a compounded annual growth rate of 11.3% for the five-year period ended December 31, 2007. Nonetheless, a future downturn in the semiconductor industry could seriously harm our company. In particular, the combination of weak demand, a sharp correction of inventory by our customers and their end markets, and deterioration in economic performance, particularly in the United States, and an increase in underutilized capacity in 2007 could seriously harm our industry and our company. Upward changes in the price of copper, gold, crude oil and certain other commodities used by our suppliers or by us as raw materials for our products could materially harm our business by increasing our costs. We are particularly affected by fluctuations in the prices of commodities such as copper, nickel, aluminum, gold, silver and other metals used in our raw materials and manufacturing process, and higher energy costs. Copper base materials that form significant part the cost of our finished product cost have increased by 6.7% from US$6,671 average price per ton in 2006 to US$7,115 average price per ton in 2007. Crude oil prices were higher by 65.5%, gold prices were higher by 14.8%, silver prices were higher by 15.8% and nickel prices were higher by 83.5% in 2007 as compared to 2006. The continuous increase in oil prices has resulted and will further result to higher importation costs, increase energy and utility costs as well as upsurge of costs of oil-based packaging materials. We attempt to negotiate competitive prices of raw materials with our suppliers, which helps to reduce the impact of any increases in the price of raw materials linked to commodities. Similarly, we attempt to mitigate the 9 Table of Contents impact of higher crude oil prices, which leads to higher energy and utilities expenses, through improvements in our operating efficiencies and adjustments in scheduling our production according to forecasted loadings. We cannot assure you that the prices of these commodities will not continue to rise, or that we will be able to negotiate competitive pricing with our suppliers, or that we will be able to mitigate the increase in our utilities expense. As a result, we may have to pass on to our customers such increases in costs. Any inability on our part to negotiate competitive pricing for raw materials or inability on our part to mitigate the increase in utilities expense or to pass on to our customers such higher costs could materially impact our financial viability and profitability. Fluctuations in exchange rates could materially harm our business by increasing costs. All of our consolidated revenue is U.S. dollar-denominated, our functional and reporting currency. The largest share of our costs is also U.S. dollar-denominated. Some of our raw material costs are incurred in European euro and Japanese yen. All of our operating expenses are incurred in U.S. dollars and Philippine pesos while our capital expenditures are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen. As a result, we are particularly affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Philippine peso, the Japanese yen and the U.S. dollar, and the Euro and the U.S. dollar. Since all of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the European euro and Japanese yen, could also increase the price we pay for equipment and raw materials, which could also increase our raw material and equipment costs. An overall decrease in demand for power semiconductors may significantly decrease the demand for our services and materially reduce our revenue. We derive majority of our revenue from assembly and/or test services for manufacturers of semiconductors used for power conversion or power management applications. Currently, many electronic devices use multiple power semiconductors, but electronics manufacturers are aggressively seeking to decrease the number of components used in devices and simplify system design. Any significant decrease in the need for power semiconductors within electronic devices may decrease the demand for our services and materially reduce our revenue. In addition, the economic slowdown in the technology sector and the increase in overall inventory levels have caused a decrease in demand for electronic devices and semiconductors and/or, in turn, our services. These trends could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to develop the advanced technology and expanded services we need to maintain our competitive position and our profitability. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological development. We need to provide our customers with advanced assembly and testing capabilities and quick production time for their increasingly complex devices. In addition, we must continue to expand our selection of packages to remain competitive. If we rely on older products, our margins and cash flow could be reduced because prices of older products tend to decrease when newer, higher performance products are introduced. Our customers may also opt to phase out or discontinue marketing and selling these older products. Any failure on our part to advance our design and process technologies successfully and in a timely manner could materially harm our competitiveness and our profitability. We may not be able to compete successfully in our industry because many of our competitors are much larger in size, have greater operating capacity and financial resources and have proven research and development and marketing capabilities. The semiconductor assembly and testing industry is highly competitive. We face substantial competition from: • the in-house assembly and testing divisions of major integrated device manufacturers; • other independent companies such as Carsem Semiconductor Co. Ltd., Greatek Electronics, Inc., AUK Corp., Enoch Semiconductor Corp., Huashan Electronic Devices Co., GEM Services and Nantung Fujitsu, Inc. that specialize in providing assembly and test services for power semiconductors; and 10 Table of Contents • a number of large companies, such as Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Amkor Technology, Inc., ASE Test Limited, ASAT, Ltd., STATS ChipPAC Ltd., Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd., • ST Assembly and Test Services Pte., Ltd., and Shinko Electric Industries Co. Ltd., that focus primarily on non-power semiconductor assembly and test services. These companies may compete more aggressively over a longer period of time than we can due to potentially greater economies of scale, lower costs, more efficient manufacturing processes, higher amounts of cash generated from operations and allocated to research and development and greater financial stability. A number of these companies also have established relationships with many of our current or potential customers. We may also face increasing competition from competitors located in lower cost centers such as Vietnam and China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Competition.” We may not be able to keep or replace key executive officers and employees, which would impair our ability to implement our business plan and continue our assembly and test processes. We depend on our key executive officers and employees to implement our business plan and oversee our assembly and test processes. It is difficult to attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel, and replace key personnel, as competition for qualified personnel in the Philippines is intense. We have had significant executive turnover in the past and may experience difficulty retaining key executives in the future. On March 31, 2007, Thelma G. Oribello, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer resigned to join her family in Jakarta, Indonesia. She was replaced by Francisco H. Suarez, Jr. On October 31, 2007, Mr. Suarez also resigned as Chief Financial Officer and he was replaced by Hilarion V. Cajucom, Jr. on October 16, 2007. In May 2006, our Chief Technology Officer, James Knapp, resigned and was replaced when we appointed Thomas Moersheim in April 2007 as our new Chief Technology Officer. On March 1, 2008, Gordon J. Stevenson relinquished his position as Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President. On February 1, 2008, we appointed George J. Shaw as the new Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President. We cannot assure you that we will not lose, or that we will be able to attract and retain, additional personnel required to successfully develop new and enhanced assembly and test services and to continue to grow and operate profitably. We maintain limited directors and officers liability insurance. We may be unable to develop and protect the intellectual property needed to compete successfully with other assembly and test companies. Our ability to compete successfully and achieve future growth in revenue will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology and the proprietary technology of our customers entrusted to us during the assembly or testing process. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop or protect proprietary technology or that our competitors will not develop, patent or gain access to similar know-how and technology. We cannot assure you that any confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements that we rely on to protect trade secrets and other proprietary information will be adequate to protect our or our customers’ proprietary technology. We may become subject to intellectual property rights disputes that may be costly and limit our ability to continue our business operations as planned. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others and not breaching licenses granted to us. We have not established procedures to help prevent us from infringing the patented technology of our competitors or other parties. As a result, we may not be aware of the intellectual property rights of others or familiar with the laws governing intellectual property rights in countries where our products are sold. If we become aware that third party-owned intellectual property may 11 Table of Contents affect our business, we intend to either avoid technology protected by existing patents, or to cross-license or otherwise obtain the right to use the process or package technologies we require. We believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent patent infringement claims as the number and coverage of patents, copyrights and other third party intellectual property rights in our industry increases. In the event a valid claim is made against us, we may be required to: • stop using critical assembly and test processes; • cease manufacturing, using, importing or selling infringing packages; • develop non-infringing technologies; • acquire and pay for licenses to use the infringed technology; or • pay substantial damages. We may be required to seek licenses from or enter into agreements with third parties covering intellectual property. We cannot guarantee that any of those licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. We may also have to commence lawsuits against companies who infringe on our intellectual property rights. Those potential claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Our assembly and test processes are susceptible to human error, which can reduce our productivity and harm our operations. Our failure to maintain high training standards and monitor our operators could result in significant operator error, which could reduce our production yields, cause us to miss committed deliveries to our customers, erode product quality, damage our customer relationships and materially harm our business. Any lost customers, increased costs, production delays, substantial amounts of returned goods and claims by customers resulting from human error could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to maintain the clean room environment we need for our operations, which can reduce our productivity and harm our operations. Our assembly and test operations take place in areas where air purity, temperature and humidity are controlled. If we are unable to control our assembly and test environment, our equipment may malfunction or our products may be defective. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview—Quality Management.” Any prolonged interruption in our operations due to problems in our clean room environment could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental, health and safety laws could require us to incur additional capital and operational costs. We are subject to liabilities and compliance obligations arising under environmental, health and safety laws. These laws impose various controls on the quality of our air and water discharges, on the storage, handling, discharge and disposal of chemicals our company uses, and on employee exposure to hazardous substances in the workplace. Environmental, health and safety laws could require us to incur capital and operational costs to maintain compliance and could impose liability to remedy the effects of hazardous substance contamination. We have complied with the requirements of the Philippine environmental standards and paid the applicable penalties and fees. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Property, Plants and Equipment—Environmental Matters” for more details. We cannot assure you that applicable environmental, health and safety laws will not in the future impose the need for additional capital equipment or other process requirements upon our company, curtail its operations, or restrict its ability to expand its operations. The adoption of new environmental, health and safety laws, the failure to comply with new or existing laws, or issues relating to hazardous substance contamination could subject our company to future material liability. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain the non-unionized status of our workforce or limit employee turnover, which can reduce our productivity and harm our operations. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to keep labor costs low. We provide compensation, benefits, and a working environment in accordance with standards mandated by Philippine law, regulations and codes which has resulted in a union-free workplace. Any initiative by the workforce to unionize or the occurrence of high employee turnover in any of our two manufacturing facilities may result in lost productivity and higher labor costs that could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on income tax incentives to preserve funds allocated for specific business purposes and a loss of these tax benefits would prevent us from using funds in accordance with our business plan. As a result of our decision to register with the Philippine Economic Zone Authority (“PEZA”) as a tax planning strategy, we are subject to a final tax, in lieu of all other taxes, computed at 5% of our gross income less allowable deductions as defined in Republic Act (RA) No. 8748 of the Philippines. We recognized ITH incentives amounting to $83,185 in 2007 and $61,351 in 2006. Our Laguna facility, through PSi Laguna, Inc., however, received tax incentives amounting to $62,884 in 2007 and $44,271 in 2006. It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. Our company is incorporated under the laws of the Republic of the Philippines and substantially all of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. In addition, virtually all of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process upon us or one of those persons in the United States to enforce any judgment obtained in U.S. courts against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. If original actions are brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, it may be difficult for investors to enforce liabilities based upon U.S. securities laws. The Philippines is not a party to any international treaty concerning the recognition or enforcement of foreign judgments although the Philippine Rules of Court do provide that a foreign judgment may be enforced in the Philippines through an independent action filed to enforce the judgment. A foreign judgment may not be enforced, however, if there is evidence of a lack of jurisdiction, absence of notice, collusion, fraud or clear mistake of law or fact or if it is found to be contrary to the laws, customs or public policy of the Philippines. Risks Related to Our ADSs Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Philippines. Legal principles such as a director’s or officer’s duty of care and loyalty, and the fiduciary duties of controlling shareholders exist in the Philippines. However, these principles are relatively untested in Philippine courts, and their application is uncertain in comparison to their application in U.S. courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or our controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a company incorporated in the United States. Our existing principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting shares and their interests may conflict with the interests of our company. Our principal shareholders, Merrill Lynch and Greathill Pte., Ltd. (“Greathill”), own, in the aggregate, approximately 68.5% of our outstanding voting securities as of December 31, 2007. Greathill was a wholly-owned subsidiary of NJI NO.2 Investment Fund (NJI) that was in members voluntary liquidation. However, on 13 Table of Contents February 27, 2007, NJI and Primasia and Bridge No. 1 Greater China Secondary Fund L.P. (“Primasia”) entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement under which NJI transferred its ownership of Greathill to Primasia effective March 1, 2007. Primasia is managed by Primasia Private Equity Management, Ltd. Acting together, or in Merrill Lynch’s case, individually, our principal shareholders will be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Articles of Incorporation and By-laws.” Matters that require shareholder approval through two-thirds vote include, among other things: • our merger or consolidation with any other entity; • any sale of all or substantially all of our assets; and • the timing and payment of stock dividends if any. Our principal shareholders have entered into a shareholders agreement relating to their ownership, transfer and voting of our shares. As a result of the level of their shareholdings and the provisions of the shareholders agreement, our principal shareholders will have the power to determine the election of our directors and the approval of any other action requiring the approval of our shareholders, including any amendments to our articles of incorporation and by-laws. In addition, our principal shareholders could prevent us from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us or the holders of our ADSs. Under the terms of the exchangeable notes issued to Merrill Lynch LLC in July 2003 and June 2005, Merrill Lynch LLC also has the right to approve a broad range of material transactions undertaken by us or our subsidiaries. See “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Transactions—The Merrill Lynch Exchangeable Notes.” Your percentage ownership in our company could be diluted by the action of our principal shareholders. Our shareholders do not have preemptive rights. Our principal shareholders have a sufficient number of votes to approve the authorization, sale and issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities of our company. You do not have a right to participate in any such sale or issuance and as a result your ownership interest in us could be diluted. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws” for a discussion on the rights of shareholders. The market price for our ADSs has fluctuated significantly in the past, and the market price of our ADSs may be lower than you expect. Since our initial public offering in March of 2000, the closing price of our ADSs has fluctuated significantly, ranging from a high of $25.44 per share to a low of $0.49 per share. As of July 11, 2008, the closing price of our ADSs was $0.27 per share. Fluctuations in our stock price could continue. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • quarterly variations in our operating results and our lack of profitability; • the introduction and development of new packages; • the amount of our indebtedness; • our ability to access additional financing on economical terms to fund capital expenditures; • general market conditions; and • general economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock markets in general, and the markets for technology companies in particular, have experienced a high degree of volatility not necessarily related to the operating performance of particular companies. 14 Table of Contents On January 31, 2008, our company received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency letter indicating that our company fails to comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in Marketplace Rule 4320(e)(2)(E)(i). Our company was provided 180 calendar days, or until July 29, 2008, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per ADS of our company for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If the minimum bid price requirement has not been met by July 29, 2008, Nasdaq Staff will provide our company with an additional 180 calendar day compliance period only if our company meets certain listing criteria. We cannot provide assurances as to the price of our ADSs. The market price of our ADSs could decrease as our principal shareholders sell their shares. The market price of our ADSs could decrease if large numbers of ADSs are sold into the public market or if the public expects those sales to occur. These sales could make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We have 13,289,525 common shares outstanding, including the common shares represented by our ADSs. The 4,025,000 common shares represented by our ADSs are freely tradeable in the public market unless purchased by our affiliates, as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act as natural persons or other entities that directly or indirectly control, are controlled by, or are under common control with us. The remaining 9,264,525 common shares are restricted securities, as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act, which means they may not be offered or sold unless pursuant to a registration statement that has been filed and declared effective by the Commission or pursuant to an available exemption from registration under the Securities Act. These common shares may be sold in the public market in the form of ADSs, upon a deposit of such shares with the depositary, but only if they are registered under the Securities Act or if they qualify for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. Your voting rights as ADS holders are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement for the ADSs. Your ability to participate in the management of our company is impaired relative to our common shareholders. Holders of ADSs may exercise the voting rights of the common shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are practical limitations on the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional procedural steps involved in communicating with the holders of ADSs. For example, our common shareholders receive notices of meetings directly from us and are able to exercise their voting rights by either attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. ADS holders, by comparison, do not receive notices directly from us. The deposit agreement provides that upon its receipt of notice from us of any meeting of holders of our common shares, the depositary will then mail to ADS holders as soon as practicable: • the notice of the meeting; • the voting instruction forms; and • a statement explaining how instructions can be given by ADS holders. To exercise voting rights, ADS holders must instruct the depositary how to vote their shares. Because of this extra procedural step involving the depositary, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for ADS holders than for holders of our common shares. ADSs for which the depositary does not receive voting instructions will not be voted at any meeting. Except as described in this annual report, ADS holders are not able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ADSs. Please see “Item 10—Additional Information—Articles of Incorporation and By-laws” for additional information relating to our common shares. 15 Table of Contents Your ability to participate in any rights offering of our company is limited, which may dilute your ownership of our company. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities under the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. The depositary will not offer rights to holders of our ADSs unless both the rights and the securities to which those rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act or are registered under the provisions of the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement for any of those rights or underlying securities or to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. As a result, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in rights offerings by us and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. Risks Related to the Philippines Our business may be affected by political or social or economic instability in the Philippines. On May 10, 2004, the Philippines held a presidential election, where the incumbent President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo successfully retained her post. Shortly after the elections, allegations of irregularities in the presidential elections, such as stolen ballots and vote buying intensified. The Philippine Congress commenced an inquiry into a wire tapped audio tape which contains a conversation allegedly between President Arroyo and a commissioner of the Commission on Elections discussing the counting of certain votes during the last presidential election. On June 27, 2005, President Arroyo publicly stated that she did speak to a commissioner of the Commission on Elections in order to protect her votes, but not to influence the outcome of the election. Impeachment complaints based on allegations of culpable violation of the Constitution, graft and corruption and betrayal of public trust were filed against President Arroyo with the Philippine Congress. In 2005 and 2006, the Philippine Congress voted to reject the impeachment complaints against President Arroyo. On May 14, 2007, the Philippines held its national and local elections for the Senate and House of Representatives. The elections resulted in victory for majority of the opposition candidates in the Senate and majority of the Administration candidates in the House of Representatives. In view thereof, any impeachment complaints against President Arroyo will probably not succeed. However, with opposition candidates ruling the Senate, there can be no assurance that economic policies conducive to sustain economic growth of the country will be adopted by the Philippine Congress. Throughout 2007 and the first half of 2008, there have been significant increases in the cost of oil and basic household goods and food, which have resulted in rice shortages, the country’s main staple food. Further, the country faces a large fiscal deficit. The fiscal deficit position of the Philippine government and ongoing political and economic uncertainty has resulted in increased concerns about the political and economic stability of the country. There can be no assurance that the political environment in the Philippines will be stable or that the current or any future government will adopt economic policies conducive to sustained economic growth or which do not impact adversely on the current regulatory environment for companies operating in the Philippines. These events have created uncertainty as to the stability of the Philippine economy. The Philippine government has implemented a number of measures designed to mitigate the effects of the region’s financial crisis on the Philippine economy. The Philippine government’s stated objective has been to restore economic confidence and stability by strengthening economic fundamentals. We cannot assure you that the Philippines will not be subject to increased economic difficulties in the future or that the current trends will significantly improve in the near future. 16 Table of Contents A continuation or worsening of the current financial and economic conditions in the Philippines could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, our lenders could cancel our short-term credit facilities, which would limit our access to capital to finance our operations, future expansion and development. The cancellation of such facilities or the inability to obtain sufficient capital to finance our operations could materially harm our business. New laws and regulations, currency devaluation and political instability in the Philippines and foreign countries could make it more difficult for us to operate successfully. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from international markets, including customers in Southeast Asia, the United States and Europe. All of the facilities currently used to provide our packaging services are located in the Philippines. Our future operations and earnings could be affected by new laws, new regulations, a volatile political climate, and changes in or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations in countries where we have customers or operations. If future operations are negatively affected by these changes, our sales or profits may suffer. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other disruptive events. We currently conduct our assembly and test operations at our facilities in Taguig, Metro Manila and Calamba, Laguna. Significant damage or other impediments to these facilities may occur as a result of: • natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and typhoons; • disease and epidemics; • industrial accidents; • utilities outages, including power, water and industrial gases, among others; • equipment failure; • industrial strikes; • terrorist events; • disruptions to our transportation network; or • political assembly/mass actions could disrupt our manufacturing operations and/or significantly increase our operating costs. To date, we have not experienced significant damage or other disruptions at our facilities as a result of these events. However, such events may occur in the future which could have a negative impact on our business. We maintain insurance, including business interruption insurance, against some, but not all, of these events. We cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover any direct or indirect losses or liabilities we may suffer. Epidemics, such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome or avian influenza or other contagious diseases, may adversely affect our operations and our profitability. Epidemics such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”) or a potential avian influenza pandemic could materially affect our operations and our financial health. We rely on more than 2,500 individuals located in manufacturing facilities in the Philippines, without whom it is not possible to assemble and test our products. The Philippines was one among 30 countries identified by the World Health Organization wherein there were confirmed cases of SARS, although the magnitude of the illness in the Philippines is substantially less than in other Asian countries such as China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. There were no report of SARS or avian influenza in the Philippines since 2005. 17 Table of Contents Illness from an individual that is successively transferred to other individuals could result in a quarantine of our Taguig or Laguna manufacturing facilities or mass absences, leading to lost productivity and revenue that could irreparably harm our company. We cannot assure you that our operations and finances will not be affected should there be a recurrence of SARS in the Philippines, within the region or other parts of the world, or any other types of epidemics. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war both domestically and overseas, may affect the markets on which our securities trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect our operations and your investment. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States, United States businesses or other countries or foreign businesses. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Our current facilities include administrative, sales, and manufacturing facilities in the Philippines. Furthermore, these attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and ultimately affect the sales of our products in the United States and overseas. The armed conflict between coalition forces led principally by the United States against armed forces in Iraq could have a further impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability and our ability to deliver product to our customers. The Philippines has experienced several major terrorist incidents in the southern island of Mindanao and bombing threats within Metro Manila. We cannot assure you that political and economic instability in the Philippines or other regions of the world may not also result and will not negatively impact our business. The consequences of any of these armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could ultimately have an adverse effect on our business or your investment. 