ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statements and Risk Factors Set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are important risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results of operations, business and financial condition to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. 13 Risks Related to Our Business Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report contains an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had inadequate revenues and incurred net losses of $2,121,574 and $561,467, respectively. Cash used in operating activities for operations was $632,335 and $1,789,231 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Based upon projected operating expenses, we believe that our working capital as of the date of this report may not be sufficient to fund our plan of operations for the next twelve months. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles require that the auditors include this going concern statement where we do not have at least twelve months of operating capital on our balance sheet. This statement has been included on our financial statements since our inception. We need to raise additional capital in order to be able to accomplish our business plan objectives. We have historically satisfied our capital needs primarily from the sale of debt and equity securities. We are continuing our efforts to secure additional funds through debt and/or equity instruments. The principal sources of capital for us are private individual accredited investors and investment banks specializing in raising capital for micro-cap companies like us. Since 2009, the principal source of funding for us has been these private accredited investors, who have invested $1,747,000 in notes (including convertible notes) and $637,500 in stock purchases or a total of $2,384,500. In addition, we closed a private placement with an investment bank in 2010 for gross proceeds of $1,600,000 in stock purchases. Also, a bank loaned us $300,000 of which $275,000 is still outstanding as of December 31, 2011. Finally, board members and management have loaned us $220,000 that has not been repaid or converted to stock and has provided either short term or longer term capital to us. These totals do not include other short term loans principally from non-affiliated third parties that were loaned to us and repaid since 2009. We have successfully raised capital for our day-to-day operations since our inception in January 2003; however, no assurance can be provided that we will continue to be able to do so. There is no assurance that any funds secured will be sufficient to enable us to attain profitable operations or continue as a going concern. To the extent that we are unsuccessful, we may need to curtail our operations and implement a plan to extend payables and reduce overhead until sufficient additional capital is raised to support further operations. At any time until substantial capital is raised, there is also a significant risk of bankruptcy. There can be no assurance that any plan to raise additional funding will be successful. These consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Subsequent to December 31, 2011, we have secured additional financing from four parties in the aggregate amount of $155,000. We have a limited operating history on which to evaluate our potential for executing our business strategy. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risk of success or failure of our business. We began our Internet technology operations in 2003; therefore your evaluation of our business and prospects will be based on the limited operating history of this business. Consequently, our historical results of operations may not give an accurate indication of our future results of operations or prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter in a relatively new and rapidly evolving market. We may not be able to address these risks and difficulties, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the viability of our business. We have experienced significant and continuing losses from operations. In fiscal years 2010 and 2011, we have incurred net losses for these two years of $2,121,574 and $561,467, respectively. If such losses continue, we may not be able to continue our operations. We incurred a net loss of $2,121,574 for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $561,467 for the year ended December 31, 2010. From February 2003 to date, our operations have been funded almost entirely through the proceeds that we have received from the issuance of our common stock in private placements, the issuance of our 7% convertible promissory notes in two private financings in 2005, the issuance of convertible and non-convertible notes in a private financing in June 2006, the issuance of our common stock at our initial public offering, from a private financing in 2007 and 2010 and various individual private placements and shareholder loans in 2007 - 2011. A specific discussion of our funding sources since January 2009 is included in the first risk factor above. If we continue to experience losses, we may not be able to continue our operations or may have to declare bankruptcy. 14 If we are unable to retain current clients and attract new clients, or if our clients do not actively submit defaulted consumer debt accounts on our solutions or successfully promote access to the solutions, we will not be able to generate revenues or continue our business. We expect that our revenue will come from taking a success fee equal to a percentage of defaulted consumer debt accounts that are settled and collected through our online Debt Resolve solutions, from a flat fee per settlement or from recurring monthly fees for the use of our system, potentially coupled with success or other transaction fees. We depend on our creditor clients, who include but are not limited to first-party creditors such as banks, lenders, credit card issuers, telecoms and utilities, third-party collection agencies or collection law firms and purchasers of charged-off debt, to initiate the process by submitting defaulted consumer debt accounts on our system along with the settlement offers. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our existing, and enter into new, relationships with creditor clients in the future. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to establish these creditor client relationships on favorable economic terms. Finally, we cannot control the number of accounts that our clients will submit on our system, how successfully they will promote access to the website, or whether the use of our solutions will result in any increase in recovery over traditional collection methods. If our client base, and their corresponding claims submission, does not increase significantly or experience favorable results, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue and sustain our business. We may be unable to meet our future liquidity requirements due to ongoing losses. We depend on both internal and external sources of financing to fund our operations as discussed in the first risk factor above. Our inability to obtain financing and capital as needed or on terms acceptable to us would limit our ability to operate our business or cause us to seek bankruptcy protection from our creditors. We may fail to successfully integrate acquisitions and reduce our operating expenses. Although we have no definitive agreements in place to do so currently, we may in the future seek to acquire additional complementary businesses, assets or technologies. The integration of the businesses, assets and technologies we have acquired or may acquire will be critical. Integrating the management and operations of these businesses, assets and technologies is time consuming, and we cannot guarantee we will achieve any of the anticipated synergies and other benefits expected to be realized from acquisitions. We currently have limited experience with making acquisitions, and we expect to face one or more of the following difficulties: · integrating the products, services, financial, operational and administrative functions of acquired businesses, especially those larger than us, · delays in realizing the benefits of our strategies for an acquired business which fails to perform in accordance with expectations, · diversion of our management’s attention from our existing operations since acquisitions often require substantial management time, and · acquisition of businesses with unknown liabilities, software bugs or adverse litigation and claims. 15 If we are unable to implement our marketing program or if we are unable to build positive brand awareness for our company and our services, demand for our services will be limited, and we will not be able to grow our client base and generate revenues. We believe that building brand awareness of our solutions and marketing our services in order to grow our client base and generate revenues is crucial to the viability of our business. Furthermore, we believe that building brand awareness will ultimately be a key differentiating factor among providers of online services, and given this, we believe that brand awareness will become increasingly important as competition has increased substantially in our target markets. In order to increase brand awareness, we must devote significant time and resources in our marketing efforts, provide high-quality client support and increase the number of creditors and consumers using our services. While we may maintain a “Powered by Debt Resolve” logo on each screen that consumer’s view when they log on to our solutions, this logo may be inadequate to build brand awareness among consumers. If initial clients do not perceive our services to be of high quality, the value of our brand could be diluted, which could decrease the attractiveness of our services to creditors and consumers. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand, our ability to generate revenues could be negatively affected. Moreover, if we incur significant expenses in promoting our brand and are unable to generate a corresponding increase in revenue as a result of our branding efforts, our operating results would be negatively impacted. Currently, we are targeting our marketing efforts towards the collection and settlement of overdue or defaulted consumer debt accounts generated primarily in the United States. To grow our business, we will have to achieve market penetration in this segment and expand our service offerings and client base to include other segments and international creditor clients. We have unsuccessful previous experience marketing our services and may not be able to implement our sales and marketing initiatives. We may be unable to hire, retain, integrate and motivate sales and marketing personnel. Any new sales and marketing personnel may also require a substantial period of time to become effective. There can be no assurance that our marketing efforts will result in our obtaining new creditor clients or that we will be able to grow the base of creditors and consumers who use our services. We also lost considerable marketing exposure while we restructured our balance sheet with limited resources by discharging certain notes, interest and payables by stock or settlement at a reduced value in 2009 and 2010. We are working to regain the market awareness that we had prior to the period where we were less active and visible. There can be no assurance that we can rebuild the original perception that we were the original company and leader in the industry for web collections technology. We are again attending trade shows and doing limited appropriate advertising, but it takes substantial time and effort to rebuild our brand, and there is no assurance that we will be successful. The ultimate validation of our market position will be our ability to generate significant revenue from our solutions. We may not be able to protect the intellectual property rights upon which our business relies, including our licensed patents, trademarks, domain name, proprietary technology and confidential information, which could result in our inability to utilize our technology platform, licensed patents or domain name, without which we may not be able to provide our services. Our ability to compete in our sector depends in part upon the strength of our proprietary rights in our technologies. We consider our intellectual property to be critical to our viability. We do not hold patents on our consumer debt-related product, but rather license technology for our DR Settle solution from James D. Burchetta and Charles S. Brofman, the co-founders of our company, whose patented technology is now, and is anticipated to continue to be, incorporated into our service offerings as a key component. Unauthorized use by others of our proprietary technology could result in an increase in competing products and a reduction in our sales. We rely on patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws to protect our licensed and proprietary technology and other intellectual property. We cannot be certain, however, that the steps that we have taken to protect our proprietary rights to date will provide meaningful protection from unauthorized use by others. We have initiated litigation and could pursue additional litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. 16 However, we may not prevail in these efforts, and we could incur substantial expenditures and divert valuable resources in the process. In addition, many foreign countries’ laws may not protect us from improper use of our proprietary technologies. Consequently, we may not have adequate remedies if our proprietary rights are breached or our trade secrets are disclosed. Finally, protection of our intellectual property through legal means is very expensive. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property will consume capital that would otherwise go to sales, marketing and operations and may negatively impact our financial performance in the short term. We believe that it is critical to our long term success to allocate resources to these activities from time to time. In the future, we may be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay damages and which could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future and thereby result in loss of clients and revenue. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the Internet and technology industries. We expect that Internet technologies and software products and services may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlaps. Under our license agreement, we have the right and obligation to control and defend against third-party infringement claims against us with respect to the patent rights that we license. Any claims relating to our services or intellectual property could result in costly litigation and be time consuming to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause delays in releasing new or upgrading existing products and services or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. There can be no assurance that our services or intellectual property rights do not infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. A successful claim of infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology or content could prevent us from continuing our business. Conversely, a very expensive effort to protect our rights even if successful may negatively impact our ability to operate by draining our cash resources from us. The intellectual property rights that we license from our co-founders are limited in industry scope, and it is possible these limits could constrain the expansion of our business. We do not hold patents on our consumer debt-related product, but rather license technology for our DR Settle solution from James D. Burchetta and Charles S. Brofman, the co-founders of our company, whose patented technology is now, and is anticipated to continue to be, incorporated into our service offerings as a key component. This license agreement limits usage of the technology to the creation of software and other code enabling an automated system used solely for the settlement and collection of credit card receivables and other consumer debt and specifically excludes the settlement and collection of insurance claims, tax and other municipal fees of all types. These limitations on usage of the licensed technology could constrain the expansion of our business by limiting the different types of debt for which some of our Debt Resolve solutions can potentially be used, and limiting the potential clients that we could service. Potential conflicts of interest exist with respect to the intellectual property rights that we license from our co-founders, and it is possible our interests and their interests may diverge. We do not hold patents on our consumer debt-related product, but rather license technology for our DR Settle solution from James D. Burchetta and Charles S. Brofman, the co-founders of our company, whose patented technology is now, and is anticipated to continue to be, incorporated into DR Settle as a key component. This license agreement presents the possibility of a conflict of interest in the event that issues arise with respect to the licensed intellectual property rights, including the prosecution or defense of intellectual property infringement actions, where our interests may diverge from those of Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman. The license agreement provides that we will have the right to control and defend or prosecute, as the case may require, the patent rights licensed to us subject, in the case of pleadings and settlements, to the reasonable consent of Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman. Our interests with respect to such pleadings and settlements may be at odds with those of Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman. 17 As of December 2011, Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman own approximately 13% of our outstanding shares of common stock. They controlled or exerted significant influence over our company from 2003 until 2009. In 2009, Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman stopped active involvement with us. Mr. Burchetta is still our non-executive Chairman of our Board. Under the terms of our license agreement, Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman will be entitled to receive stock options to purchase shares of our common stock if and to the extent the licensed technology produces specific levels of revenue for us. They will not be entitled receive any stock options for other debt collection activities such as off-line settlements. The license agreement may present Messrs. Burchetta and Brofman with conflicts of interest. If we cannot compete against competitors that enter our market, demand for our services will be limited, which would likely result in our inability to continue our business. We are aware of several companies that have software offerings that are competitive with our solutions and which compete with us for market share. Two early competitors, Incurrent Solutions, Inc., a division of Online Resources Corp. and Apollo Enterprises Solutions, LLC announced an online collection offering in fall 2004. Additional competitors have emerged in the online defaulted consumer debt market. These and other possible new competitors may have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, greater adaptability to changing market needs, longer operating histories and more established relationships in the banking or collection industries than we currently have. In the future, we may not have the resources or ability to compete. As there are few significant barriers for entry to new providers of defaulted consumer debt services, there can be no assurance that additional competitors with greater resources than ours will not enter our market. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our existing or potential creditor clients will continue to use our services on an increasing basis, or at all. If we are unable to develop and expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our competitors are able to do, now or in the future, we may not be able to continue our business. We are dependent upon maintaining and expanding our computer and communications systems. Failure to do so could result in interruptions and failures of our services. This could have an adverse effect on our operations which would make our services less attractive to consumers, and therefore subject us to a loss of revenue as a result of a possible loss of creditor clients. Our ability to provide high-quality client support largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems to accommodate our creditor clients and the consumers who use our system. In the terms and conditions of our standard form of licensing agreement with our clients, we agree to make commercially reasonable efforts to maintain uninterrupted operation of our solutions 99.99% of the time, except for scheduled system maintenance. In the normal course of our business, we must record and process significant amounts of data quickly and accurately to access, maintain and expand our offerings. The temporary or permanent loss of our computer and telecommunications equipment and software systems, through casualty, operating malfunction, software virus, or service provider failure, could disrupt our operations. Any failure of our information systems, software or backup systems would interrupt our operations and could cause us to lose clients. We are exposed to the risk of network and Internet failure, both through our own systems and those of our service providers. While our utilization of redundant transmission systems can improve our network’s reliability, we cannot be certain that our network will avoid downtime. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware systems are hosted in leased facilities with Cervalis in New York, and under the terms of our hosting service level agreement with Cervalis, they will provide network connectivity availability 99.9% of the time from the connection off their backbone to our hosted infrastructure. Our disaster recovery plan may not be adequate and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that could occur as a result of a network-related business interruption. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our facilities or those of our service providers could cause interruptions or delays in use of our solutions and loss of data. Additionally, we rely on third parties to facilitate network transmissions and telecommunications. We cannot assure you that these transmissions and telecommunications will remain either reliable or secure. Any transmission or telecommunications problems, including computer viruses and other cyber attacks and simultaneous failure of our information systems and their backup systems, particularly if those problems persist or recur frequently, could result in lost business from creditor clients and consumers. Network failures of any sort could seriously affect our client relations, potentially causing clients to cancel or not renew contracts with us. 18 Furthermore, our business depends heavily on services provided by various local and long-distance telephone companies. A significant increase in telephone service costs or any significant interruption in telephone services could negatively affect our operating results or disrupt our operations. David M. Rainey and Michael J. Cassella possess specialized knowledge about our business, and we would be adversely impacted if they were to become unavailable to us. We believe that our ability to execute our business strategy will depend to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of David M. Rainey, our President and Chief Financial Officer, and Michael J. Cassella, our Chief Operating Officer. They have knowledge regarding online debt collection technology and many aspects of company operations that would be difficult to replace. If they were to become unavailable to us, our operations would be adversely affected. We have no insurance to compensate us for the loss of any of our named executive officers or key employees. We could issue “blank check” preferred stock without stockholder approval with the effect of diluting then current stockholder interests and impairing their voting rights, and provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue a series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could dilute the interest of, or impair the voting power of, our common stockholders. The issuance of a series of preferred stock could be used as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control. For example, it would be possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to change control of our company. In addition, advanced notice is required prior to stockholder proposals. Delaware law also could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Specifically, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our board of directors, including discouraging attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares of common stock held by our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Industry The ability of our solutions clients to recover and enforce defaulted consumer debt may be limited under federal, state, local and foreign laws, which would negatively impact our revenues. Federal, state, local and foreign laws may limit our creditor clients’ ability to recover and enforce defaulted consumer debt. Additional consumer protection and privacy protection laws may be enacted that would impose additional requirements on the enforcement and collection of consumer debt. Any new laws, rules or regulations that may be adopted, as well as existing consumer protection and privacy protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to settle defaulted consumer debt accounts on behalf of our clients and could result in decreased revenues to us. We cannot predict if or how any future legislation would impact our business or our clients. In addition, we cannot predict how foreign laws will impact our ability to expand our business internationally or the cost of such expansion. Our failure to comply with any current or future applicable laws or regulations could limit our ability to settle defaulted consumer debt claims on behalf of our clients, which could adversely affect our revenues. 19 For all of our businesses, government regulation and legal uncertainties regarding consumer credit and debt collection practices may require us to incur significant expenses in complying with any new regulations. A number of our existing and potential creditor clients, such as banks and credit card issuers, operate in highly regulated industries. We are impacted by consumer credit and debt collection practices laws, both in the United States and abroad. The relationship of a consumer and a creditor is extensively regulated by federal, state, local and foreign consumer credit and protection laws and regulations. Governing laws include consumer plain English and disclosure laws, the Uniform Consumer Credit Code, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act (including the Fair Credit Billing Act amendments), the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and state law counterparts, the Federal Reserve Board’s implementation of Regulation Z, the federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, and state unfair and deceptive acts and practices laws. Failure of these parties to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations could have a negative impact on us. For example, applicable laws and regulations may limit our ability to collect amounts owing with respect to defaulted consumer debt accounts, regardless of any act or omission on our part. We cannot assure you that any indemnities received from the financial institutions which originated the consumer debt account will be adequate to protect us from liability to consumers. Any new laws or rulings that may be adopted, and existing consumer credit and protection laws, may adversely affect our ability to collect and settle defaulted consumer debt accounts. In addition, any failure on our part to comply with such requirements could adversely affect our ability to settle defaulted consumer debt accounts and result in liability. In addition, state or foreign regulators may take the position that our solutions effectively constitute the collection of debts that is subject to licensing and other laws regulating the activities of collection agencies. If so, we may need to obtain licenses from such states, or such foreign countries where we may engage in our solutions business. Until licensed, we will not be able to lawfully deal with consumers in such states or foreign countries. Obtaining such licenses would be expensive. We face potential liability that arises from our handling and storage of personal consumer information concerning disputed claims and other privacy concerns. Any penetration of our network security or other misappropriation of consumers’ personal information could subject us to liability. Other potential misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes, could also result in claims against us. These claims could result in litigation. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several states have investigated the use by certain Internet companies of personal information. We could incur unanticipated expenses, especially in connection with our settlement database, if and when new regulations regarding the use of personal information are enacted. In addition, pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, our financial institution clients are required to include in their contracts with us that we have appropriate data security standards in place. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act stipulates that we must protect against unauthorized access to, or use of, consumer debtor information that could be detrimentally used against or result in substantial inconvenience to any consumer debtor. Detrimental use or substantial inconvenience is most likely to result from improper access to sensitive consumer debtor information because this type of information is most likely to be misused, as in the commission of identity theft. We believe we have adequate policies and procedures in place to protect this information; however, if we experience a data security breach that results in any penetration of our network security or other misappropriation of consumers’ personal information, or if we have an inadequate data security program in place, our financial institution clients may consider us to be in breach of our agreements with them. Also, as we move into the healthcare space, our healthcare clients must require us to include in their contracts with us that we meet the data protection provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. This law is designed to ensure that patient care data is not personally identifiable in the event of a breach of our solutions. Again, this type of information is very susceptible to misuse in the commission of identity theft. We believe we have adequate policies and procedures in place to protect this information; however, if we experience a data security breach that results in any penetration of our network security or other misappropriation of consumers’ personal information, or if we have an inadequate data security program in place, our healthcare clients may also consider us to be in breach of our agreements with them, and we may be subject to litigation. 20 Government regulation and legal uncertainties regarding the Internet may require us to incur significant expenses in complying with any new regulations. The laws and regulations applicable to the Internet and our services are evolving and unclear and could damage our business. Due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that laws and regulations may be adopted, covering issues such as user privacy, pricing, taxation, content regulation, quality of products and services, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. This legislation could expose us to substantial liability or require us to incur significant expenses in complying with any new regulations. Increased regulation or the imposition of access fees could substantially increase the costs of communicating on the Internet, potentially decreasing the demand for our services. A number of proposals have been made at the federal, state and local level and in foreign countries that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. Such proposals, if adopted, could adversely affect us. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as personal privacy is uncertain. We may be subject to claims that our services violate such laws. Any new legislation or regulation in the United States or abroad or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet could adversely affect our business. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, which as a smaller public company may be disproportionately high. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, XBRL, new SEC regulations and stock market rules, are creating uncertainty for small capitalization companies like us. These new and changing laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards will likely result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting will require the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. The requirement to file our reports in XBRL beginning with the second quarter of 2011 report is also time consuming and costly. In addition, recent pronouncements by the Financial Accounting Standards Board will require a significant commitment of resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Our industry is highly competitive, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully with businesses that may have greater resources than we have. We face competition from a wide range of collection and financial services companies that may have substantially greater financial, personnel and other resources, greater adaptability to changing market needs and more established relationships in our industry than we currently have. We also compete with traditional contingency collection agencies and in-house recovery departments. Competitive pressures adversely affect the availability and cost of qualified recovery personnel. If we are unable to develop and expand our business or adapt to changing market needs as well as our current or future competitors, we may experience reduced profitability. We are subject to ongoing risks of litigation, including individual and class actions under consumer credit, collections, employment, securities and other laws. We operate in an extremely litigious climate, and we are currently and may in the future be named as defendants in litigation, including individual and class actions under consumer credit, collections, employment, securities and other laws. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been filed against a company after a period of volatility in the market price of its stock. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. The use of certain collection strategies could be restricted if class-action plaintiffs were to prevail in their claims. In addition, insurance costs continue to increase significantly and policy deductibles also have increased. All of these factors could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 21 We may not be able to hire and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations, and/or we may experience high rates of personnel turnover. Our industry is very labor-intensive, and companies in our industry typically experience a high rate of employee turnover. We generally compete for qualified personnel with companies in our business and in the collection agency, teleservices and telemarketing industries. We will not be able to service our clients’ receivables effectively, continue our growth or operate profitably if we cannot hire and retain qualified personnel. We specifically compete with large, prominent, well funded employees in our immediate proximity that makes it difficult for a small almost startup company to attract the needed technical talent. Further, a high turnover rate among our employees would increase our recruiting and training costs and may limit the number of experienced personnel available. Our newer employees tend to be less productive and generally produce the greatest rate of personnel turnover. If the turnover rate among our employees increases, we will have fewer experienced employees available to service our clients, which could reduce efficiency and therefore result in lower revenues and earnings. Our employee retention and turnover has also been significantly impacted by our lack of cash or access to significant funding. We may not be able to successfully anticipate, invest in or adopt technological advances within our industry. Our business relies on computer and telecommunications technologies, and our ability to integrate new technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our success. We may not be successful in anticipating, managing, or adopting technological changes on a timely basis. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current and foreseeable demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems. We depend on having the capital resources necessary to invest in new technologies to service receivables. We cannot assure you that we will have adequate capital resources available. We may not be able to anticipate, manage or adopt technological advances within our industry, which could result in our services becoming obsolete and no longer in demand. Our business relies on computer and telecommunications technologies. Our ability to integrate these technologies into our business is essential to our competitive position and our ability to execute our business strategy. Computer and telecommunications technologies are evolving rapidly and are characterized by short product life cycles. We may not be able to anticipate, manage or adopt technological changes on a timely basis. While we believe that our existing information systems are sufficient to meet our current demands and continued expansion, our future growth may require additional investment in these systems so we are not left with obsolete computer and telecommunications technologies. We depend on having the capital resources necessary to invest in new technologies for our business. We cannot assure you that adequate capital resources will be available to us at the appropriate time to effectively compete against our competition. 22 Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock is thinly traded. The daily volume in our stock varies widely and is limited at times. At this time, it is not possible to liquidate a significant position in a relatively short time period. In addition, because we are not traded on a national exchange, there are additional restrictions on the purchase or sale of our common stock. It has become increasingly difficult to find a brokerage firm willing to accept over-the-counter stock certificates due to new Financial Industry Regulatory Authority regulations. Conversion of our outstanding debt to equity results in significant dilution. The conversion of our debt to equity has resulted in significant dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, some of these conversions have resulted in concentrated large illiquid blocks of our shares which overhang our trading for extensive periods of time. These conversions were substantially completed in October 2010. The conversions and settlements removed approximately $8 million of current liabilities from the balance sheet at June 30, 2009 that was filed on our Form 10-Q on August 19, 2009. The liabilities converted and settled were only certain ones existing on that balance sheet date. The conversion to equity of some of these liabilities resulted in the issuance of approximately 23.6 million shares. Approximately $377,000 of notes from that period remain outstanding that are subject to conversion at a conversion rate of $0.10 per share. Our stock price may exhibit a high degree of volatility. Because our stock is traded with relatively low volume, the price can move significantly on small trading volumes. The release of positive news would be expected to move our stock price up, but we have large illiquid blocks discussed above that sell into any upward momentum. These blocks exert a downward influence or may place a temporary cap on our stock price appreciation. Over time, we would expect these blocks to be broadly sold into the market, increasing our shareholder base and trading volume and mitigating the effect of these blocks over time. While we currently do not provide sales or earnings guidance as some larger companies do, we may do so in the future, and our stock price reaction may be volatile depending on our revenue and earnings performance relative to the guidance. Risks Related to the Economy A poor performance by the economy may adversely impact our business. When economic conditions deteriorated, more borrowers became delinquent on their consumer debt. However, while volumes of debt to settle have risen, borrowers have less ability in a downturn to make payment arrangements to pay their delinquent or defaulted debt. As a result, our revenues may decline, or it may be more costly to generate the same revenue levels, resulting in reduced earnings. A poor economy may also slow borrowing or may curb lenders willingness to provide credit, which results in lower business levels. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 