Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our business and your investment in us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be harmed. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are not currently known to us or that we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Our significant amount of indebtedness or our asbestos liability could have a material adverse impact on our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness and a large asbestos liability. Our total debt increased from $988.1 million at May 31, 2007 to $1.1 billion at May 31, 2008, as a result of acquisition activities during the year and our issuance of $250.0 million of notes, a portion of which was used to repay short-term obligations. Our asbestos reserve stood at $559.7 million at May 31, 2008. These items compare with $1.1 billion in stockholders’ equity at May 31, 2008. Nevertheless, our level of indebtedness and our asbestos liability together or separately could have important consequences to you. For example, the presence of these items: • may require us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness or meet our asbestos obligations, thereby reducing the cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments, stock repurchases or other general corporate requirements; • could result in a downgrading of our credit rating, which would increase our borrowing costs, adversely affect our financial results, and make it more difficult for us to raise capital; • may restrict our operational flexibility and reduce our ability to conduct certain transactions, since our credit facility contains certain restrictive financial and operating covenants; • may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions, which would make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions; and • may have a material adverse effect on our short-term liquidity if large debt maturities and asbestos-related cash outlays occur in close succession. Changes to our asbestos liability could impact our results of operations, and ultimately the amount of cash required to settle our current and future obligations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an asbestos liability on our balance sheet to cover the estimated cost of pending claims and unasserted-potential-future-claims, including defense-related costs, through our fiscal year ending May 31, 2028. The amount that we recorded for our asbestos-related liability was based on facts known to us at the time and the input of an independent third-party expert. In light of the uncertainties inherent in making long-term projections, we have determined that a twenty-year period is the most reasonable time period over which reasonably accurate estimates might still be made for projecting asbestos liabilities and defense costs and, accordingly, the liability does not include asbestos liabilities for any period beyond twenty years. The process and methodology used to develop our long-term asbestos liability estimate are set forth in Note I (Contingencies and Loss Reserves) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders. Our actual expenses for asbestos could be significantly higher or lower than those estimated and recorded, if the assumptions that we used or relied upon vary significantly from actual results or if new legislation governing asbestos claims were enacted. We review our assumptions and currently known facts on a periodic basis to determine whether any adjustments are required to our asbestos-related liability. Adjustments, if any, to the estimate of our asbestos-related liability could negatively impact our results of operations for the period or periods in which such adjustments are made and, ultimately, increase the amount of cash necessary to meet our asbestos-related obligations. We do not maintain a sinking fund for our asbestos liability. See Note I (Contingencies and Loss Reserves) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which appear in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders for additional information regarding asbestos claims. Fluctuations in the supply and prices of raw materials may negatively impact our financial results. We obtain the raw materials needed to manufacture our products from a number of suppliers. Many of our raw materials are petroleum-based derivatives, minerals and metals. Under normal market conditions, these materials are generally available on the open market and from a variety of producers. From time to time, however, the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair our ability to procure necessary materials or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. The costs of the raw materials we use are under generally upward pressure due to escalating energy and related feedstock costs, increased levels of global demand, improved levels of 9 Table of Contents supplier pricing discipline and the falling value of the United States dollar. If the prices of raw materials continue to increase and we are unable to pass these increases on to our customers, we could experience reduced gross profit margins. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors may be larger and may have greater financial resources than we do. The markets in which we operate are fragmented, and we do not face competition from any one company across all of our product lines. However, any significant increase in competition may cause us to lose market share or compel us to reduce prices to remain competitive, which could result in reduced gross profit margins. Increased competition may also impair our ability to grow or to maintain our current levels of revenues and earnings. Companies that compete in our markets include AkzoNobel, Carlisle, Degussa, Ferro, GE Plastics, H.B. Fuller, Masco, PPG, Rohm and Haas, Sika Finanz, Sherwin-Williams and Valspar. Several of these companies are much larger than we are and may have greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition with these companies could prevent the institution of price increases or could require price reductions or increased spending to maintain our market share, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on a number of large customers for a significant portion of our net sales and, therefore, significant declines in the level of purchases by any of these key customers could harm our business. Some of our operating companies, particularly in the consumer segment, face a substantial amount of customer concentration. Our key customers include Ace Hardware Stores, Rona, Cotter & Company, Do It Best, The Home Depot, Lowe’s Home Centers, Menards, Orgill, W.W. Grainger and Wal-Mart. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 21%, 20%, and 22% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, and 59%, 55%, and 55%, respectively, of the consumer segment’s net sales for those same fiscal years. Sales to The Home Depot accounted for approximately 9%, 9%, and 10% of our consolidated net sales and 26%, 24% and 25% of our consumer segment net sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. If we were to lose one or more of our key customers, or experience a delay or cancellation of a significant order, or incur a significant decrease in the level of purchases from any of our key customers, or experience difficulty in collecting amounts due from a key customer, our net revenues could decline and our operating results could be reduced materially. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and downward economic cycles may have a material adverse effect on our business. Many of our customers, across both reportable segments, are in businesses and industries that are cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, interest rates, construction activity, and other factors, including changes in consumer spending and preferences. As a result, the demand for our products by these customers depends, in part, upon general economic conditions. Downward economic cycles affecting the markets of our customers may reduce the sales of our products resulting in material reductions to our revenues and net earnings. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. Our family of products includes a number of well-known brand names that are used in a variety of industrial maintenance, consumer do-it-yourself and professional applications. We believe that continuing to maintain the strength of our brands is critical to increasing demand for our products and maintaining their widespread acceptance among our customers. The reputations of our branded products depend on numerous factors, including the successful advertising and marketing of our brand names, consumer acceptance, the availability of similar products from our competitors, and our ability to maintain our products’ quality and technological advantages. A loss in the actual or perceived value of our brands could limit or reduce the demand for our products. 10 Table of Contents Our business and financial condition could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our material trademarks and other proprietary information. We have numerous valuable patents, trade secrets and know-how, domain names, trademarks and trade names, including certain marks that are significant to our business, which are identified under Item 1 of this Report. Despite our efforts to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, other parties, including our former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or marks without our authorization. Unauthorized use of our trademarks, or unauthorized use or disclosure of our other intellectual property, could negatively impact our business and financial condition. The chemical and construction products industries in which we serve expose us to inherent risks of legal claims and other litigation-related costs, which could adversely impact our business. As a participant in the chemical and construction products industries, we face an inherent risk of exposure to legal claims in the event that the failure, use or misuse of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. For example, one of our subsidiaries, Dryvit Systems, Inc. (“Dryvit”), a manufacturer of coatings for exterior insulating finishing systems, or EIFS, is a defendant or co-defendant in numerous ongoing property damage claims related to the alleged defects of EIFS. Some of the EIFS claims also stem from alleged personal injuries from exposure to mold. Dryvit’s and our insurers, which include First Continental Services Co., one of our wholly owned, captive insurance companies, have in the past paid for a substantial portion of Dryvit’s defense and/or settlement costs in the EIFS-related litigation. Dryvit has sued certain of our third party insurers to cover certain of its EIFS claims. The status of this litigation is such that we have recorded an insurance receivable for amounts contractually due and payable to us under the related insurance policies. If, however, we are unable to secure payments from these insurers in an amount sufficient to cover this insurance receivable, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted in the period during which such non-payment occurs. For further information regarding our EIFS litigation, please refer to Note I (Contingencies and Loss Reserves) of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in the 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to unforeseen future expenditures or liabilities, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., Canada and other foreign countries where we conduct business. Governmental and regulatory authorities impose various laws and regulations on us that relate to environmental protection, the sale and export of certain chemicals or hazardous materials, and various health and safety matters, including the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the handling, use, treatment, storage and clean-up of solid and hazardous wastes, and the investigation and remediation of soil and groundwater affected by hazardous substances. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, RCRA, CERCLA, TSCA, and various other federal, state, provincial, local and international statutes. In addition, these laws and regulations often impose strict, retroactive and joint and several liability for the costs of, and damages resulting from, cleaning up our, or our predecessors’, past or present facilities, and third party disposal sites. We are currently undertaking remedial activities at a number of facilities and properties and have received notices under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or analogous state laws of liability or potential liability in connection with the disposal of material from our current or former operations. Further, we also could be subject to future liability resulting from conditions that are currently unknown to us that could be discovered in the future. The environmental laws under which we operate are numerous, complicated and often increasingly stringent, and may be applied retroactively. As a result, we have not always been and may not always be in full compliance with all environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which we conduct our business. In addition, if we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We also could be liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances relating to our products or operations. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to make additional expenditures to remain in or to achieve compliance with environmental laws in the future or that any such additional expenditures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Our businesses are subject to extensive environmental and safety laws and regulations that may restrict or adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Our businesses are also dependent on the issuance of operating permits and registrations required from government agencies. In connection with the performance of certain activities, our businesses are required to seek permission from agencies in the states, provinces, and countries in which they operate. If regulatory permits or registrations are delayed, restricted, or rejected, subsequent operations at our businesses could be delayed or restricted. Any regulatory agency could reject or delay the review of any of our business filings. Delays in obtaining necessary permits and registrations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines and penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations, remedial or corrective measures, installations of pollution control equipment, or other actions. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our efforts in acquiring and integrating other companies or product lines or establishing joint ventures fail, our business may not grow. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue pursuing acquisitions of complementary businesses or products and creating joint ventures. Our ability to continue to grow in this manner depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate and finance suitable acquisitions or joint venture arrangements. In addition, acquisitions and their subsequent integration involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • inaccurate assessments of disclosed liabilities and the potentially adverse effects of undisclosed liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties in assimilating acquired companies, their products, and their culture into our existing business; • unforeseen delays in realizing the benefits from acquired companies or product lines, including projected efficiencies, cost savings, revenue synergies and profit margins; • unforeseen diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business matters; • unforeseen difficulties resulting from insufficient prior experience in any new markets we may enter; • unforeseen difficulties in retaining key employees and customers of acquired businesses; and • increases in our indebtedness and contingent liabilities, which could in turn restrict our ability to raise additional capital when needed or to pursue other important elements of our business strategy. Execution of our acquisition strategy with respect to some companies or product lines could fail or could result in unanticipated costs to us that were not apparent despite our due diligence efforts, either of which could hinder our growth or adversely impact our results of operations. We derive a significant amount of our revenues from foreign markets, which subjects us to additional business risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our foreign manufacturing operations accounted for approximately 35% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2008, not including exports directly from the United States which accounted for approximately 2% of our net sales for fiscal 2008. Our international operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, inflation rates, trade protection measures, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, changing intellectual property rights, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of our products or increase our costs. Also, changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could potentially result in material volatility in our costs and earnings and may also adversely affect the carrying values of our assets located outside the United States. In many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we 12 Table of Contents have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. Any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations. We could be adversely affected by global tax law changes. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign tax laws and regulations which govern, among other things, taxes on worldwide income. Future tax law changes, if any, may increase applicable tax rates or impose stricter compliance requirements in the jurisdictions in which we operate, which could reduce our consolidated net earnings. Terrorist activities and other acts of violence or war and natural disasters have negatively impacted in the past and could negatively impact in the future the U.S. and foreign countries, the financial markets, the industries in which we compete, our operations and profitability. Terrorist activities and natural disasters have contributed to economic instability in the United States and elsewhere, and further acts of terrorism, violence, war or natural disasters could affect the industries in which we compete, our ability to purchase raw materials, our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, terrorist activities and natural disasters may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, which could impact our sales, our production capability and our ability to deliver products to our customers. Any disruption of our ability to produce or distribute our products could result in a material decrease in our revenues or significant additional costs to replace, repair or insure our assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have insurance it may not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Although we maintain insurance of various types to cover many of the risks and hazards that apply to our operations, our insurance will not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. The occurrence of a significant adverse event, the risks of which are not fully covered by insurance, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales. From time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the United States and other countries in which we do business have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. For example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the general construction and exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 