Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. We may not be able to complete the proposed merger with affiliates of Thoma Cressey Bravo, Inc. on the terms previously announced or other acceptable terms. On April 5, 2007, we signed a merger agreement to be acquired by affiliates of Thoma Cressey Bravo, Inc. for a cash purchase price of $7.20 per share. Although we currently expect the transaction will close during the second quarter of 2007, we may not be able to complete the proposed merger as a result of various factors, including: • failure to obtain stockholder approval; • the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; • failure to satisfy the closing conditions of the merger before July 16, 2007 or at all; or • failure of the merger to close for any other reason. In December 2006, we and affiliates of Thoma Cressey Bravo mutually terminated a previous merger agreement because we concluded that we could not proceed with a stockholder vote while the Special Committee’s review was pending and our financial statements could not be relied upon. If we are not able to complete the proposed merger, our stock price would be adversely affected and our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, we believe that the amount of costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the merger could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements contained under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report. Whether or not the proposed merger is completed, the announcement of the merger may cause disruption in our business. Whether or not the proposed merger is completed, the announcement of the merger could be disruptive to our business and operations. Our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees and other business partners may adversely change or terminate their relationship with us in response to the announcement of the merger. In addition, management’s attention could be diverted from our sales plan and business plan by the proposed merger. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in future periods, and, as a result, our stock price may fluctuate or decline. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical results of operations are not indicative of our future performance. Our revenues and operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including the factors discussed below. Seasonal variations in orders for our products also contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. These fluctuations are likely to cause corresponding volatility in our stock price, particularly if our operating results vary from analysts’ expectations. We have experienced declining license revenue in recent periods and license revenue in future periods may fluctuate substantially. Our business depends in large part on our ability to generate license revenues from new and existing customers. In recent periods, our license revenue has declined. License revenue decreased to $6.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 compared to $7.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 and decreased to $26.6 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 compared to $27.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2005. License revenue for the first quarter of 2007 decreased even more significantly to $4.8 million compared to $6.6 million in the first quarter of 2006. We expect that license revenue in future periods, including the rest of fiscal 2007, will fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter and may continue to decline. Our license revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked and delivered in that quarter. Our revenues in a given quarter could be adversely affected if we are unable to complete one or more large license agreements, or if the contract terms were to prevent us from recognizing revenue during that quarter. Variations in the size and timing of our customer orders could expose us to substantial revenue fluctuations and higher operating costs. Further, we have often booked a large amount of our sales in the last 9 Table of Contents month, weeks or days of each quarter and delays in the closing of sales near the end of a quarter could cause quarterly revenue to fall short of anticipated levels. These factors may cause significant periodic variation in our license revenues. In addition, we incur or commit to operating expenses based on anticipated revenue levels, and generally do not know whether revenues in any quarter will meet expectations until the end of that quarter. Historically, we have not placed significant reliance on large sales transactions in any given quarter, with a substantial volume of our revenues being driven from smaller transactions. However, if we encounter difficulty and cannot generate a sufficient number of large customer orders, or if customers delay or cancel such orders in a particular quarter, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. The matters relating to the review by a Special Committee of the Board of our historical stock option grant practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have required us to incur substantial expenses, have resulted in litigation, and may result in additional litigation and future government enforcement actions. In November 2006, the Company announced that the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, with the assistance of independent legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option grant practices covering the time from the Company’s initial public offering in 2000 through August 2006. In December 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors formed a Special Committee to continue this review. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Item 1, and in Note 3 “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Special Committee reached a conclusion that incorrect measurement dates and exercise prices were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. As a result, the Company has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to certain stock option grants, and the Company has restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This review of our historical stock option grant practices has required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, has diverted our management’s attention from our business, and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our historical stock option grant practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. Several derivative complaints have been filed pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. The conduct and resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive and distract management from the conduct of our business. In November 2006, we voluntarily contacted the SEC regarding the stock option review. Shortly thereafter, the SEC requested that the Company produce certain documents relating to the Company’s stock option practices. In December 2006, the Company responded to the SEC’s document production request. In March 2007, special independent counsel to the Special Committee met with the enforcement staff of the SEC and provided them with a report of the Special Committee’s review and findings. There can be no assurance that the SEC will not commence an enforcement action against the Company, or commence proceedings against our directors and officers as individuals, which, in each case, could further divert our management’s attention from our business, and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The finding of the Special Committee’s review are more fully described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Item 1, and in Note 3 “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, which may reduce the price of our common stock and levels of liquidity available to our stockholders and cause confusion among investors. On November 13, 2006, we submitted to the SEC a Notification of Late Filing pursuant to Rule 12b-25 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 (the “Third Quarter 10-Q”). On November 15, 2006, we received a Staff Determination Letter from NASDAQ, stating that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), because we had not filed the Third Quarter 10-Q in a timely manner. The Staff Determination Letter indicated that our securities would be delisted from NASDAQ unless we timely requested a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”). We timely requested such a hearing, and on January 18, 2007, we appeared before the Panel to appeal the Staff’s determination and present a plan to cure our filing deficiencies and regain compliance. On February 9, 2007, the Panel notified us that the Panel had determined to continue the listing of our securities on NASDAQ, provided that we met certain requirements. Those requirements were that we (i) provide NASDAQ with specified information regarding the results of the Special Committee’s review of stock option grant practices on or about March 1, 2007, (ii) file the Third Quarter 10-Q, any other delinquent periodic reports, and any required restatements on or before April 18, 2007, and (iii) comply with all other requirements for continued listing on NASDAQ. On March 1, 2007, we provided NASDAQ with certain information regarding the results of the Special Committee’s review, as requested. On March 16, 2007, we submitted to the SEC an additional Notification of Late Filing pursuant to 10 Table of Contents Rule 12b-25 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On March 21, 2007, we received an additional Staff Determination Letter from NASDAQ stating that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because we had not filed this Annual Report on Form 10-K in a timely manner. The additional Staff Determination Letter indicated that we were required to present our views with respect to the additional deficiency to the Panel in writing no later than March 28, 2007. On March 28, 2007, we responded to the Panel in writing regarding the additional deficiency and our plan to cure our filing deficiencies by April 18, 2007. On April 12, 2007, we requested a further extension of the April 18 deadline for filing the Third Quarter 10-Q and this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On April 18, 2007, the Panel granted an extension of the deadline to May 10, 2007. On May 8, 2007, we informed NASDAQ that we would not be able to meet this deadline for filing the Third Quarter 10-Q and this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On May 10, 2007, the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council (the “Listing Council”) called for review and determined to stay the April 18 decision of the Panel pending further action by the Listing Council. On May 11, 2007, we submitted to the SEC a Notification of Late Filing pursuant to Rule 12b-25 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in respect of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 (the “First Quarter 10-Q”). On May 14, 2007, we received an additional Staff Determination Letter from NASDAQ stating that we are not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) because we have not filed the First Quarter 10-Q in a timely manner. The additional Staff Determination Letter indicated that we were required to make a submission with respect to the additional deficiency to the Listing Council in writing no later than May 21, 2007. On May 21, 2007, we responded to the Listing Council in writing regarding the additional deficiency and our plan to cure our filing deficiencies. The Listing Council has also requested that we submit any additional information that we wish the Listing Council consider regarding the continued listing of our securities on NASDAQ by June 29, 2007. We intend to timely provide such additional information to the Listing Council. The Listing Council has indicated that, following receipt of additional information from us and from the Panel, it will review the written record and make a determination regarding the continued listing of our securities on NASDAQ. There can be no assurance that the Listing Council will determine to continue the listing of our securities on NASDAQ or that we will be able to satisfy any conditions to continued listing set forth by the Listing Council. In the event that we are unable to satisfy any such conditions, or if the Listing Council so determines following its review, our securities will be delisted from NASDAQ. In addition, if we are unable to become current in our SEC filings, our securities could be delisted from NASDAQ. If our common stock is delisted, it may become more difficult for our stockholders to sell our stock in the public market and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected because of the anticipated decreased liquidity. Delisting from NASDAQ could also result in other negative implications including the potential loss of confidence by customers, suppliers and employees, the loss of investor interest, an increase in investor confusion, and fewer business development opportunities, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Claims and litigation based on the Special Committee’s review may require that we incur substantial additional expenses and expend significant additional management time. On February 9, 2007, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California captioned Murray v. Wong et al., C07-00872 SBA. The complaint, which names the Company as a nominal defendant, relates to the Company’s historical stock option grant practices and seeks to bring derivative claims on behalf of the Company against its directors and certain current and former executive officers. The complaint asserts claims under federal and state law including breaches of fiduciary duties, unjust enrichment, statutory violations and other violations of law. The Company is evaluating the lawsuit and intends to respond appropriately. We cannot estimate the ultimate outcome of this case at this preliminary stage. On February 26, 2007, a complaint was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Francisco, captioned Loeb v. Wong et al., CGC-07-460779. The complaint, which was amended on April 10, 2007, names the Company as a nominal defendant, relates to the Company’s historical stock option grant practices and seeks to bring derivative claims on behalf of the Company against its directors and certain current and former executive officers and agents. The amended complaint also seeks to bring direct claims against the Company and the other named defendants. The complaint asserts claims under state law including breaches of fiduciary duties, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment and violations of the California Corporations Code. The amended complaint also asserts direct putative class claims relating to the proposed merger with affiliates of Thoma Cressey Bravo, Inc. The Company is evaluating the lawsuit and intends to respond appropriately. We cannot estimate the ultimate outcome of this case as this preliminary stage. On March 9, 2007, a complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California captioned Redwing v. Wong et al., C07-01401. The complaint, which names the Company as a nominal defendant, relates to the Company’s historical stock option grant practices and seeks to bring derivative claims on behalf of the Company against its directors and certain current and former executive officers. The complaint asserts claims under federal and state law including breaches of fiduciary duties, unjust enrichment, statutory violations and other violations of law. The Company is evaluating the lawsuit and intends to respond appropriately. We cannot estimate the ultimate outcome of this case at this preliminary stage. We may be named as a defendant in additional securities litigation or derivative lawsuits by current or former stockholders based on the restated financial statements. Further, we may be subject to claims relating to adverse tax consequences with respect to stock options covered by the restatement. Defending against potential claims would likely require significant attention and resources of management and could result in significant legal expenses. 11 Table of Contents Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to regulatory actions by government agencies. Any such proceeding would divert the resources of management, could result in significant expenses and could cause our customers, employees and investors to lose confidence in our company. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 that, if not remediated effectively, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements for future periods. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for our Company, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and identified one material weakness, which was a failure to maintain an effective control environment that resulted in incorrect accounting for and disclosure of our stock-based compensation expense relating to options granted prior to March 2005. This lack of an effective control environment also resulted in the restatement of certain of our consolidated financial statements. Company management began efforts in the second quarter of 2005 and continuing throughout 2006 to improve controls relating to our option grant practices, and, as a result, management believes that the likelihood that a material error in our financial statements could have originated during fiscal 2006 and not have been detected as of December 31, 2006 was remote. However, management has concluded that the improved controls were not effective to detect and correct for deficiencies for options granted in periods prior to March 2005. Because of this material weakness, our management concluded, as of December 31, 2006, that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. This material weakness is further described in “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A material weakness is defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) as a significant deficiency, or combination of significant deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. A control deficiency exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent or detect misstatements on a timely basis. We have implemented remedial measures designed to address this material weakness. If these remedial initiatives are insufficient to address the identified material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our financial statements may contain material misstatements, we could be required to restate our prior period financial results, our operating results may be harmed, we may be subject to class action litigation, and our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Select Market. Any failure to address the identified material weakness or any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required to be included in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. We can give no assurance that the measures we have taken to date or any future measures will remediate the material weakness identified or that any additional material weaknesses or additional restatements of financial results will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or circumvention of these controls. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities, or errors or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or SEC reports. We have experienced changes in our senior management team that could affect our business and operations. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management team, including the resignation of Stephen R. Wong, our former Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President in January 2007. In October 2006 we hired Scott B. Schoonover as our Vice President, Worldwide Sales, following the resignation of Robert Lamvik, our former Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations. Because of these significant changes, our management team may not be able to work together effectively to successfully develop and implement our business strategies and financial operations. In addition, management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and the investor community. As announced in January 2007, the Board of Directors formed a Management Oversight Committee following Mr. Wong’s resignation, to assist the Company’s management team on business and operational matters until the proposed merger is completed. If our management team, with assistance from this Management Oversight Committee, is unable to achieve these goals, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. If the proposed merger with affiliates of Thoma Cressey Bravo, Inc. is not completed, we will need to recommence our search for a new Chief Executive Officer, our Senior Vice President of Operations, Raj Sabhlok, will either resign or be terminated, and there would likely be other changes in our senior management team that could adversely affect our business and operations. 12 Table of Contents We have recently implemented changes in our sales force that may affect our revenues in future periods. We have recently restructured and made other adjustments to our sales force in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues and other internal considerations. Additionally, we currently are seeking to fill the open position of vice president of EMEA Sales. We have also recently increased headcount in our telesales groups. These changes to our sales force require a transition phase prior to full productivity. This could have a temporary negative effect on our license revenues. If we do not generate new business from our existing customers and add new customers from our new or existing products, we will not be able to sustain or increase our revenues. Our license arrangements generally do not provide for substantial ongoing license or maintenance payments. Therefore, our future revenue growth depends on our success in expanding our relationships with existing customers and attracting new customers. Further, the expiration or termination of OEM agreements could adversely affect our channel sales. Our ability to expand our relationships with existing customers and attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the performance, quality, breadth, and depth of our current and future products and maintenance. Our failure to expand relationships with existing customers or to add new customers would reduce our future license and maintenance revenues. In addition, if our existing customers do not renew their support contracts, our future maintenance revenues will be adversely affected. If our products do not perform as expected, we may lose customers, our costs will increase and revenues may be delayed or lost. Computer software such as ours often contains undetected errors and may contain design flaws. Errors may be found in current versions, new versions, or enhancements of our products after we make commercial shipments. If our software contains undetected errors, performs unreliably, or if we otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we may suffer: • loss of revenues, market share or customers; • negative publicity and harm to our reputation; • diversion of research and development and management resources; • increased maintenance and warranty costs; • legal actions by customers against us; and • increased insurance costs. Our operating results would be harmed if overall information technology spending were to decrease. The markets into which we sell our products are cyclical and are subject to general economic conditions. The information technology market has generally improved since the second half of 2003. However, economic conditions remain uncertain and this market may decline in the future. Any renewed slowdown in the database market or in general economic conditions would likely result in a reduction in demand for our products and our results of operations would be harmed. If we are not able to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business will not be able to grow. Our success depends on the continued service of our executive officers and other key administrative, sales and marketing, research and development, and support personnel. None of our executive officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term, and we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of these officers or personnel would adversely affect our operations. Given the lengthy financial restatement process, the related SEC and internal investigations and the potential delisting of our common stock from NASDAQ, it has become more difficult to retain key personnel, including members of our finance team. In addition, we have recently experienced increased employee turnover, especially in our sales and marketing and research and development departments. We will need to continue to recruit, new personnel into our organizations. Our business will not be able to grow if we cannot continue to fill these positions and attract, retain, and motivate other qualified personnel. Competition for qualified employees remains intense and we may not be able to attract, assimilate, or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. There has been in the past and there may also be in the future a shortage of personnel that possess the technical background necessary to sell, support, and develop our products effectively. It has also become more difficult to recruit qualified financial personnel since the implementation of the new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and financial reporting. 13 Table of Contents The expansion of our international operations exposes us to risks. We expect to continue to expand our international sales and research and development operations, including the relocation of significant software development activities to Romania. As a result, we could face a number of risks from our expanding international operations including: • staffing and managing foreign operations; • complying with increased financial accounting and reporting complexities, including implementing effective internal controls across international operations; • complying with foreign redundancy notification and severance payment obligations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the loss of revenues and net income resulting from currency fluctuations; • compliance with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; • the impact of war or terrorist activities; • uncertain protection for our intellectual property rights in some countries; • delays of product updates or launches due to the transition of research and development activities to new facilities; • licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; • longer sales and payment cycles; and • costs and difficulties of customizing products for foreign countries. Further expansion of our international operations may require significant management attention and financial resources and may place burdens on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our possible investments to establish facilities in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenues or profitability, which would negatively affect our stock price. We invest heavily in research and development with no guarantee of return from the investments that we make. We have invested significant resources in the development of new products. If our new products are not accepted in the marketplace, we may not achieve future revenue growth and may have limited return on the investments that we have made. In addition, we plan to continue to invest in research and development and could fail to achieve expected returns from future investments. If we are not able to enhance our existing products to adapt to rapid technological change, or if we introduce new products that do not achieve market acceptance, our revenues and earnings may suffer and we may experience loss of market share. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, uncertain product lifecycles, and changes in customer demands and industry standards. Our success depends on our ability to continue to: • enhance our current products; • introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and market conditions; • satisfy increasingly complicated customer requirements; • integrate our products with multiple database platforms; and 14 Table of Contents • modify our products as database platforms change. However, due to the nature of computing environments, new products and product enhancements could require longer development and testing periods than we currently anticipate. Moreover, if we develop new products that do not achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to recoup development and marketing expenses, which could harm our operating results. The introduction of new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Delays in the general availability of new releases or problems in the installation or implementation of new releases could harm our business and operating results. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products or new product enhancements that respond to technological change, evolving industry standards, or customer requirements. Our failure to do so would render our products obsolete and could harm our ability to compete. In addition, our products and product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance. If sales of DBArtisan fall, our revenues and income may decline. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our DBArtisan product line, which was 40% of our license revenue in fiscal 2004 and 39% of our license revenue in fiscal 2005 and 40% of our license revenue in fiscal 2006. We expect that sales of the DBArtisan product line will continue to represent a substantial portion of our license revenues for the foreseeable future. In addition, many of our customers initiate a relationship with us by purchasing DBArtisan. If demand for DBArtisan declines due to competition, technological change or other factors, our revenues and income may decline significantly. Large sales of our products and maintenance involve a lengthy sales cycle, which could cause delays in recognizing revenue or the failure to obtain revenue. Our field sales focus on large sales of our products where the product packages are larger with higher starting prices and longer evaluation periods than our traditional products. These large sales typically involve sales cycles between six and twelve months. This lengthy sales cycle is due to the need to educate and convince prospective customers of the value of our products and to gain approval from more constituencies within a prospective account, including key management personnel. The timing of our revenues has become more difficult to forecast because of this lengthy sales cycle for large sales. We may expend substantial time and resources to negotiate transactions with prospective customers but then be delayed in concluding, or be unable to conclude, sales of our products and maintenance. As we have experienced in recent quarters, a delay in, or failure to complete, sales in a particular period can reduce our revenues in that period as well as in subsequent periods over which revenues for the sale may be recognized. When we experience a delay on one or more large orders, it harms our ability to meet our forecasts for a given period. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens in general or for one or more large sales, it could negatively affect the timing of our revenues and may cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. For example, effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), “Share Based Payment” (SFAS 123(R)), which requires us to calculate compensation expense related to all share-based awards and to recognize the expense in our financial statements. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized $1.5 million, net of tax, in stock-based compensation expenses related to the adoption of SFAS 123(R). In future periods, we expect that compensation expenses associated with the adoption of SFAS 123(R) will be significant and will cause our net income and net income per share to be significantly reduced. An unfavorable government review of our tax returns or changes in our effective tax rates could adversely affect our operating results. Our operations are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. Our tax filings are subject to review or audit by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We exercise judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of our business, there may be transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As of December 31, 2006, we were under IRS audit of our United States federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004. On April 16, 2007, we received a final report from auditors for the IRS with respect to the IRS examination of our U.S. federal tax returns for 2003 and 2004. This 15 Table of Contents report contained a proposed tax assessment for these tax years of approximately $163,000 and an adjustment to net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We have accepted and signed the auditors’ report to close the examination. In the future, we may be subject to additional audits. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. If future audits result in assessment of additional taxes due, our results of operations may be adversely affected for the period in which the matter is ultimately resolved or an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. We have determined that we face certain unpaid sales tax liabilities in various states for previous periods. We have filed under the Streamline Sales Tax Project amnesty program in the applicable states and also filing voluntary disclosure agreements in other states. The calculations of these sales tax liabilities involve uncertainties in the application of complex sales tax regulations, and our results of operations could be adversely affected if our sales tax liabilities are determined to be significantly higher. We may lose market share and be required to reduce prices as a result of competition. The market for our products is highly competitive, dynamic, and subject to rapidly changing technology. Pricing pressure in the market has increased as competitors have lowered prices and engaged in more aggressive discounting. If such pricing pressure continues, it could have an adverse effect on our margins. We compete primarily against other providers of data and database management, data performance and availability, enterprise data design and modeling, and data movement technologies, which include Computer Associates, Quest Software, BMC Software, Informatica Corporation, and other independent software vendors. Our products also compete with products offered by database software manufacturers, including Oracle, Microsoft, Sybase and IBM. Some of these competing products are provided at no charge to their customers. We expect that companies such as Oracle, Microsoft, Sybase, and IBM will continue to develop and incorporate into their products applications which compete with our products and may take advantage of their substantial technical, financial, marketing and distribution resources in those efforts. We may not be able to compete effectively with those products or efforts, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. There has continued to be consolidation in our industry, such as IBM’s acquisition of Ascential Software. This and any future acquisitions may have the effect of improving the competitive positions of the acquired companies and weakening our competitive situation. To effectively compete as the industry consolidates, we may need to seek alliances with other companies in order to gain better acceptance of our products. We may not be able to enter into such alliances on terms favorable to us or at all. In addition, since our acquisition of SHC Ambeo Acquisition Corp. in 2005, we have been competing in the data security market. While industry analysts project the market for data security to grow rapidly competition has been strong and in addition to our traditional competitors, we face competition from new competitors with broad security expertise. If the market for strategic data management solutions grows, some of our competitors may increase their focus on offering software directly competitive with ours, whether by internal development, external development, or acquisition. Our competitors may also attempt to keep us from integrating our software with theirs, making it more difficult for our customers to adopt our software. If such increased competition were to result in resistance to integration of our software with the software of these competitors, we may have difficulty entering markets where our competitors have strong market positions. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. They also may be able to respond more quickly than we can to changes in technology or customer requirements. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products on acceptable terms. Our competitors may pursue the following actions: • develop and market new technologies that render our products obsolete, unmarketable or otherwise less competitive; • make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other companies, thereby enhancing the functionality of their products; or • establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with channel or strategic partners which limit our ability to sell or to co-market products through these channels. Competitive pressures could reduce our market share, reduce customer orders, reduce gross margins, or require us to reduce our prices, any of which would harm our operating results. Our high fixed operating expenses might adversely affect our profitability if future revenue expectations are not met. The majority of our operating expenses consist of personnel and related expenses and facility related costs. These costs are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our operating decisions such as when to hire additional personnel and when to expand our facilities and 16 Table of Contents infrastructure are based in large part on expectations about expected future revenues. If we hire personnel and enter into facilities contracts based on our expectations about future revenues, and then fail to meet those revenue expectations, we would likely have lower than expected earnings, which would negatively affect our stock price. International political instability may increase our cost of doing business and disrupt our business. Continued international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures, sustained military action in Afghanistan and Iraq, strained international relations with foreign governments and other international conflicts, may halt or hinder our ability to do business, may increase our costs, and may adversely affect our stock price. This continued instability may, for example, negatively impact the reliability and cost of transportation, negatively affect the desire of our employees and customers to travel, adversely affect our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates, or require us to take extra security precautions for our domestic and international operations. In addition, this international political instability has had and may continue to have negative effects on financial markets, including significant price and volume fluctuations in securities markets. If this international political instability continues or escalates, our business and results of operations could be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. We may have future non-recurring charges in the event of goodwill impairment. We adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002, and, as a result, we ceased to amortize goodwill. We now test our goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or in the event of a significant change in our business. We performed our impairment test as of September 30, 2006 and determined that there had been no impairment to our goodwill. As of December 31, 2006, our goodwill balance was $14.3 million. In the future, if we determine that this goodwill has been impaired, we will be required to take a non-recurring charge to write down this asset, which would adversely affect our earnings and book value. Increased costs associated with corporate governance compliance may significantly impact our results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance practices, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours in understanding and complying with these laws, regulations and standards. As a result of this uncertainty and other factors, devoting the necessary resources to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure standards has resulted in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention to compliance activities. Our compliance costs in 2006 were lower than in 2005, as we were able to better control our costs in our third year of compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. However, these costs could increase in 2007 or in the future, if the proposed merger with an affiliate of Thoma Cressey Bravo is not completed. In addition, these developments, as well as the litigation we confront based on the Special Committee’s review of our stock option grant practices and the resulting restatements, may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain such coverage. Moreover, we may not be able to comply with these more stringent rules and regulations on a timely basis. These developments could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. Additionally, in fiscal year 2006, we have incurred $1.4 million of additional legal, accounting and consulting costs in connection with the Special Committee’s review of our historical stock option grant practices. As a result of the review, our results of operations for 2006 were adversely affected. We expect these costs to be significantly higher in fiscal 2007, which would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations for 2007. Our proprietary rights may be inadequately protected and infringement claims or independent development of competing technologies could harm our competitive position. We rely on copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants and attempt to restrict access to proprietary information on a need-to-know basis. Despite such precautions, unauthorized third parties may be able to copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we consider as proprietary. Further, the protection of our proprietary rights may be more difficult in countries like Romania, where we are expanding our development activities. We license our software products primarily under shrink-wrap licenses delivered electronically with our software products. Shrink-wrap licenses are not negotiated with or signed by individual licensees and purport to take effect upon installation of the product or downloading of the product from the Internet. These measures afford only limited protection. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as well as the laws of the United States. We may have to enter into litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others with respect to our 17 Table of Contents rights. Litigation is generally very expensive and can divert the attention of management from daily operations. Accordingly, any intellectual property litigation could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Further, the cost we may need to incur in connection with the defense of such lawsuits, if significant, could harm our financial condition. We are not aware of any case in which we are infringing the proprietary rights of others. However, third parties may bring infringement claims against us. Any such claim is likely to be time consuming and costly to defend, could cause product delays and could force us to enter into unfavorable royalty or license agreements with third parties. A successful infringement claim against us could require us to enter into a license or royalty agreement with the claimant or develop alternative technology. However, we may not be able to negotiate favorable license or royalty agreements, if any, in connection with such claims and we may fail to develop alternative technology on a timely basis. Accordingly, a successful product infringement claim against us could harm our business and operating results. We are susceptible to business interruptions that could harm our business. Our operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from computer viruses, human errors, natural disasters, telecommunications failures, intentional acts of vandalism, and other similar events. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in San Francisco, which is known for its seismic activities. Although we have a disaster recovery plan for critical data and business applications, this does not provide assurance that we would not suffer a business interruption. A significant business interruption would result to losses or damages to our operation and harm our business. Our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for losses that might occur, which would result in increased expenses and harm our operating results. Certain persons have substantial control over us, which could impede stockholder approval of certain transactions. Our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially held more than 27% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006. Following the January 2007 resignation of Stephen R. Wong, our former Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially held approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock as of March 31, 2007. These stockholders, if acting together, and Mr. Wong, if acting individually or together with other stockholders, can significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the approval of equity compensation plans, the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. On April 5, 2007, in connection with the execution of the merger agreement relating to the proposed merger with affiliates of Thoma Cressey Bravo, Inc., each of Stephen Wong, Raj Sabhlok, our Senior Vice President of Operations, Michael Shahbazian, our Chief Financial Officer, Wayne Williams, our Chief Technology Officer, and Scott Schoonover, our Vice President, Worldwide Sales, executed a voting agreement pursuant to which each has agreed to vote, or cause to be voted or consented, all of his shares of our common stock and those acquired after the date of the voting agreements, if any, in favor of adoption of the merger agreement. These voting agreements only relate to the adoption of the merger agreement and no other matters, and in the event that the merger agreement is terminated or our board of directors withdraws or modifies its approval or recommendation of the proposed merger, the voting agreements will automatically terminate. The voting agreements cover an aggregate of 4,782,658 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 18.3% of the shares of our common stock entitled to vote upon the adoption of the merger agreement. We expect the price of our common stock to remain volatile, making it difficult for our stockholders to predict the return on their investment. Since our initial public offering, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in response to a number of factors, including: • the announcement of our proposed merger; • the announcement of the termination of the previously proposed merger; • market reaction to our announcement of the non-reliability of our financial statements and related communications for the periods commencing on or after January 1, 2000 through the present, the inability of the investing public to rely on our previously issued financial statements for those periods, and the delayed filing of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007; 18 Table of Contents • market reaction to our announcement of the delayed filing of our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, and the inability of the investing public to rely on our previously issued financial statements for the quarters and year ended December 31, 2004; • market reactions to our announcement of the restatements of our financial statements for the years 2000, 2001, 2002 and 2003, the inability of the investing public to rely on our previously issued financial information for those years ended December 31, and December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the delayed filing of the Form 10-K for 2004; • changes in market valuation of software and technology companies; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • global and domestic economic and political conditions; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • announcements that we or our competitors make related to significant contracts, acquisitions, capital commitments, strategic partnerships or product introductions or enhancements; • additions or departures of key personnel; • stock market price and volume fluctuations, which are particularly volatile among securities of software and Internet companies; and • sales of significant amounts of our common stock or other securities in the open market. If we are not able to complete the merger for any reason, we expect that the price of our stock would decline to historical levels at or below those before we announced the signing of our initial merger agreement on September 6, 2006. Provisions of our charter and bylaws and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts that might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws as well as Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are subject to the provisions of Delaware law that restrict business combinations with interested stockholders, which may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combinations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 