ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below may not be the only ones relating to our company. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition, and future prospects and the trading price of our common stock could be harmed as a result of any of these risks. Investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Risks Relating to our Product Commercialization Pursuits PROVENGE is our only FDA-approved product. If we fail to achieve and sustain commercial success for PROVENGE, our business will suffer, our future prospects may be harmed and our stock price would likely decline. On April 29, 2010, the FDA licensed our autologous cellular immunotherapy, PROVENGE® (sipuleucel-T), for the treatment of men with asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic, metastatic, castrate-resistant (hormone-refractory) prostate cancer. PROVENGE currently generates substantially all of our revenue. Prior to the launch of PROVENGE in May 2010, we had never sold or marketed a pharmaceutical product. Unless we can successfully commercialize another product candidate or acquire the right to market other approved products, we will continue to rely on PROVENGE to generate substantially all of our revenue and fund our operations. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues for PROVENGE will depend on, and may be limited by, a number of factors, including the following: • acceptance of and ongoing satisfaction with PROVENGE as the first in a new class of therapy in the United States and by the medical community, patients receiving therapy and third party payers and eventually in foreign markets if we receive additional marketing approvals; • our ability to develop and expand market share, both in the United States and potentially in the rest of the world if we receive marketing approvals outside of the U.S., in the midst of numerous competing products for late stage prostate cancer, many of which are in late stage clinical development; • successfully expanding and sustaining our manufacturing capacity to meet demand; • whether physicians are willing to adopt PROVENGE as part of the treatment paradigm for men with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer; • whether data from clinical trials for additional indications are positive and whether such data, if positive, will be sufficient to achieve approval from the FDA and its foreign counterparts to market and sell PROVENGE in such additional indications; • adequate coverage or reimbursement for PROVENGE by government healthcare programs and third-party payors, including private health coverage insurers and health maintenance organizations; and • the ability of patients to afford any required co-payments for PROVENGE. If for any reason we became unable to continue selling or manufacturing PROVENGE, our business would be seriously harmed and could fail. 16 If PROVENGE were to become the subject of problems related to its efficacy, safety, or otherwise, our revenues from PROVENGE could decrease. PROVENGE, in addition to any other of our drug candidates that may be approved by the FDA, will be subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that newly discovered or developed safety issues will not arise. With the use of any newly marketed drug by a wider patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. In the event of a withdrawal of PROVENGE from the market, our revenues would decline significantly and our business would be seriously harmed and could fail. Adoption of PROVENGE for the treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer may be slow or limited for a variety of reasons including competing therapies, perceived difficulties in the treatment process and access to reimbursement. If PROVENGE is not successful in broad acceptance as a treatment option for advanced prostate cancer, our business would be harmed. The rate of adoption of PROVENGE for advanced prostate cancer and the ultimate market size will be dependent on several factors including educating treating physicians on the patient treatment process with PROVENGE and immunotherapies generally. As a first in class therapy, PROVENGE utilizes a unique treatment approach, which can have associated challenges in practice for treating physicians. A significant portion of the prospective patient base for treatment with PROVENGE may be under the care of urologists who are less experienced with infusion treatments. Acceptance by urologists of PROVENGE as a treatment option may be measurably slower than adoption by oncologists of PROVENGE as a therapy and may require more educational effort by us. In addition, the tight manufacturing and infusion timelines required for treatment with PROVENGE will require treating physicians to adjust practice mechanics, which may result in delay in market adoption of PROVENGE as a preferred therapy. PROVENGE is presently only approved in the U.S. for the treatment of metastatic asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. Earlier diagnosis of metastatic prostate cancer will be increasingly important, and screening, diagnostic and treatment practices can vary significantly by geographic region. In order to achieve global success for PROVENGE as a treatment we will need to pursue approvals by non-U.S. regulatory authorities, which may result in significant investment in obtaining required data and manufacturing capability. Data from our completed clinical trials of PROVENGE in the U.S. may not be sufficient to support approval for commercialization by regulatory agencies governing the sale of drugs outside the US. This could require us to spend substantial sums to develop sufficient clinical data for licensure by authorities outside the U.S. Submissions for approval by non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not result in marketing approval by these authorities for the requested indication. In addition, certain countries require pricing to be established before reimbursement for the specific indication may be obtained. We may not receive or maintain marketing approvals at favorable pricing levels or at all, which could harm our ability to market PROVENGE globally. Prostate cancer is common in many regions where the healthcare systems are limited and reimbursement for PROVENGE may be limited or unavailable, which will likely limit or slow adoption in these regions. If we are unable to successfully achieve the full global market potential of PROVENGE due to diagnosis practices or regulatory hurdles, our future prospects would be harmed and our stock price could decline. Products we may potentially commercialize and market may be subject to promotional limitations. We may not be able to obtain the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the promotion of our products. The FDA has the authority to impose significant restrictions on an approved product through the product label and allowed advertising, promotional and distribution activities. The FDA also may approve a product for fewer indications than are requested or may condition approval on the performance of post-approval clinical studies. We may also be required to undertake post-marketing clinical trials. If the results of such post-marketing studies are not satisfactory, the FDA may withdraw marketing authorization or may condition continued marketing on commitments from us that may be expensive and/or time consuming to fulfill. Even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals, if we or others identify adverse side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if 17 manufacturing problems occur, regulatory approval may be withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products and additional marketing applications may be required, any of which potential concerns could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Risks Relating to Manufacturing Activities We are rapidly expanding our operations to support commercial launch of PROVENGE, and we may encounter unexpected costs or difficulties. We have and expect to continue to significantly increase our investment in commercial infrastructure. We will need to effectively manage the expansion of our operations and facilities and continue to grow our infrastructure to commercialize PROVENGE and pursue development of our other product candidates. We must effectively manage our supply chain, third-party vendors and distribution network, all of which requires strict planning in order to meet production timelines for PROVENGE. We continue to add manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance, marketing and sales personnel, and personnel in all other areas of our operations, including executive-level personnel, to support commercialization and pursue non-U.S. marketing approvals, which strains our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. In pursuing rapid expansion, we must continue to monitor quality and effective controls, or we risk possible delays in approval of the facilities by the FDA for commercial manufacturing. Any delay in readiness of our expanded New Jersey facility and new facilities in Orange County, California and Atlanta could result in the loss of revenue from potential sales of PROVENGE, and adversely impact market acceptance for PROVENGE. If we fail to manage the growth in our systems and personnel appropriately and successfully in order to achieve our commercialization plans for PROVENGE our revenues could suffer and our business could be harmed. We are presently not at capacity sufficient to manufacture PROVENGE in quantities sufficient to fulfill patient demand. We have experienced and may continue to experience in the near future constraints in our ability to manufacture PROVENGE in sufficient quantities to satisfy market demand. Until the additional capacity from the expansion of our New Jersey Facility is available, which is anticipated for the first quarter of 2011, and at the new manufacturing facilities in Atlanta, Georgia and Orange County, California, which is anticipated for mid-year 2011, we expect to be constrained in our ability to manufacture PROVENGE to supply the potential market. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to significant regulation with respect to manufacturing of our products. All of those involved in the preparation of a therapeutic drug for clinical trials or commercial sale, including our existing supply contract manufacturers and clinical trial investigators, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. Components of a finished therapeutic product approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with Current Good Manufacturing Practices. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of quality systems to control and assure the quality of investigational products and products approved for sale. Our facilities and quality systems and the facilities and quality systems of some or all of our third party contractors must pass inspection for compliance with the applicable regulations as a condition of FDA approval of our products. In addition, the FDA may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility involved with the preparation of PROVENGE or our other potential products or the associated quality systems for compliance with the regulations applicable to the activities being conducted. The FDA also may, at any time following approval of a product for sale, audit our manufacturing facilities or those of our third party contractors. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations or if a violation of our product specifications or applicable regulation occurs independent of such an inspection or audit, we or the FDA may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time consuming for us or a third party to implement and that may include the temporary or permanent suspension of a clinical trial or commercial sales, recalls, market withdrawals, seizures or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract could materially harm our business. 18 Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture PROVENGE in the U.S. and plan to manufacture our product candidates. We may need to contract with a third-party manufacturer in order to commence clinical trials in the European Union prior to establishment of our own facility to supply the European market. Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by: • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier; • capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers; • the performance of our information technology systems; • compliance with regulatory requirements; • inclement weather and natural disasters; • changes in forecasts of future demand for product components; • timing and actual number of production runs for product components; • potential facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses; • updating of manufacturing specifications; and • product quality success rates and yields. If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments or supply constraints. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It is a multi-year process to build and license a new manufacturing facility and it can take significant time to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer. In order to maintain supply, mitigate risks and to satisfy anticipated demand for PROVENGE, we must successfully implement manufacturing projects on schedule. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, and supply constraints for our products. We rely on complex scheduling and product tracking systems. We have developed a comprehensive, integrated IT system for the intake of physician orders for PROVENGE, to track product delivery, and to store patient-related data we obtain for purposes of manufacturing PROVENGE. We rely on this system in order to maintain the chain of identity for each patient-specific dose of PROVENGE, and to ensure timely delivery of product prior to expiration. In addition, this system stores and protects the privacy of the required patient information for the manufacture of PROVENGE. If our systems were to fail or be disrupted for an 19 extended period of time we could lose product sales and our revenue and reputation would suffer. In the event our systems were to be breached by an unauthorized third party, they could potentially access confidential patient information we obtain in manufacturing PROVENGE, which could cause us to suffer reputational damage and loss of customer confidence. Any one of these events could cause our business to be materially harmed and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Risks Relating to Our Clinical Trial and Product Development Initiatives Our clinical and pre-clinical candidates in the pipeline for other potential cancer immunotherapies and small molecule products may never reach the commercial market for a number of reasons. In order to sustain our business, we focus substantial resources on the search for new pharmaceutical products. These activities include engaging in discovery research and product development, conducting preclinical and clinical studies, and seeking regulatory approval in the United States for product candidates and abroad for PROVENGE and other products we may market in the future. Our long term success depends on the discovery and development of new drugs that we can commercialize. Our cancer immunotherapy and small molecule program pipeline candidates are still at a relatively early stage in the development process. There can be no assurance that these product candidates or any other potential therapies we may pursue will become a marketed drug. In addition, we may find that certain products cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale and, therefore, they may not be economical to produce, or may be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including difficulties in formulation which cannot be overcome, timing and competitive concerns. An IND must become effective before human clinical trials may commence. The IND application is automatically effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless, before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions about the product’s safety profile or the design of the trials as described in the application. In the latter case, any outstanding concerns must be resolved with the FDA before clinical trials can proceed. Thus, the submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials in any given case. After authorization is received, the FDA retains the authority to place the IND, and clinical trials under that IND, on clinical hold. If we are unable to commence clinical trials or clinical trials are delayed indefinitely, we would be unable to develop additional product candidates and our business could be materially harmed. Preclinical testing and clinical trials for product candidates must satisfy stringent regulatory requirements or we may be unable to utilize the results. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with regulations by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Clinical trials are subject to continuing oversight by governmental regulatory authorities and institutional review boards and must meet the requirements of these authorities in the United States, including those for informed consent and good clinical practices. We may not be able to comply with these requirements, which could disqualify completed or ongoing clinical trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates, including the following: • safety and efficacy results from human clinical trials may show the product candidate to be less effective or safe than desired or earlier results may not be replicated in later clinical trials; • the results of preclinical studies may be inconclusive or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; • after reviewing relevant information, including preclinical testing or human clinical trial results, we may abandon or substantially restructure programs that we might previously have believed to be promising; 20 • we or the FDA or similar regulatory authorities in other countries may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons; and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that interrupt, delay or cause us or the FDA to halt clinical trials or cause the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities to deny approval of the product candidate for any or all target indications. Each phase of testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is risk that we will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve our goals, and accordingly we may abandon a product in which we have invested substantial amounts of time and money. In addition, we must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with pre-clinical and clinical data that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for each target indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched; or whether any products, once launched, will be commercially successful. The FDA or an Advisory Committee may determine our clinical trials data regarding safety or efficacy are insufficient for regulatory approval. We discuss with and obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on certain aspects of our clinical development activities. These discussions are not binding obligations on the part of regulatory authorities. Under certain circumstances, regulatory authorities may revise or retract previous guidance during the course of our clinical activities or after the completion of our clinical trials. The FDA may also disqualify a clinical trial in whole or in part from consideration in support of approval of a potential product for commercial sale or otherwise deny approval of that product. Even if we obtain successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. Prior to regulatory approval, the FDA may elect to obtain advice from outside experts regarding scientific issues and/or marketing applications under FDA review. These outside experts are convened through the FDA’s Advisory Committee process. An Advisory Committee will report to the FDA and make recommendations. Views of the Advisory Committee may differ from those of the FDA, and may impact our ability to commercial a product candidate. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for our product candidates may require that we identify and enroll a large number of patients with the disease under investigation. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients, or those with required or desired characteristics to achieve diversity in a study, to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including: • design of the trial protocol; • the size of the patient population; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; • perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study; • availability of competing therapies and clinical trials; • efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; • patient referral practices of physicians; • the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and • geographic proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients. If we have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients with sufficient diversity to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, either of which would have a negative effect on our business. 21 Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Operations We have a history of operating losses. We expect to continue to incur losses for the near future, and we may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $1.2 billion. We have incurred net losses as a result of research and development expenses, clinical trial expenses, contract manufacturing expenses and general and administrative expenses in support of our operations and research efforts. We anticipate that near term we will continue to fund our ongoing research, development and general operations from available cash, including proceeds from our January 2011 convertible notes offering, and revenue generated from commercial sales of PROVENGE as we expand our operations including our manufacturing capabilities, continue our clinical trials, apply for regulatory approvals and build commercial infrastructure outside the U.S. and invest in research and product development. The majority of our resources continue to be used in support of the commercialization of PROVENGE. Even if we are able to successfully realize our commercialization goals for PROVENGE, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with commercialization of a biologic, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do produce revenues and achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. We may require additional funding, and our future access to capital is uncertain. It is expensive to develop and commercialize cancer immunotherapy and small molecule product candidates. We plan to continue to simultaneously conduct clinical trials and preclinical research for a number of product candidates while pursuing commercial acceptance and our marketing goals for PROVENGE. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial products, either because our product candidates fail to be found safe or effective in clinical trials or because we lack the necessary financial or other resources or relationships to pursue our programs through commercialization. Even if commercialized, a product may not achieve revenues that exceed the costs of producing and selling it. Our capital and future cash flow may not be sufficient to support the expenses of our operations and we may need to raise additional capital depending on a number of factors, including the following: • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development and clinical trial activities; • to establish additional manufacturing and distribution capability for the potential non-U.S. marketing of PROVENGE; and • to remain competitive in the event of the introduction into the marketplace of competing products and other adverse market developments. We may not be able to obtain additional financing if and when needed. If we are unable to raise additional funds on terms we find acceptable, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate some of our clinical trials and our development programs. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result. In addition, the expectation of future dilution as a result of our offering of securities convertible into equity securities may cause our stock price to decline. Difficulties we may encounter managing our growth may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have been and continue to be engaged in a period of rapid and substantial growth, which places a strain on our commercial, clinical, administrative and operational infrastructure. We will need to continue to manage multiple locations and additional relationships with various collaborative partners, suppliers and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to hire necessary personnel and to continue to improve our reporting systems and procedures as well as our operational, financial and management controls. We may not be able to effectively manage a rapid pace of growth and timely implement improvements to our management information and control systems. Any failure by us to appropriately monitor and manage our business growth could cause one or more of our initiatives to fail to meet its goals, thus harming our business and near term prospects. 22 Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. Our existing indebtedness includes an aggregate of $27.7 million in outstanding 4.75% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) which bear interest at 4.75% and an aggregate of $620 million in outstanding Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “2016 Notes”) which bear interest at 2.875%. Our indebtedness and annual debt service requirements may adversely impact our business, operations and financial condition in the future. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to raise additional funds by borrowing or engaging in equity sales in order to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to service payments on our debt; or • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate or to pursue certain strategic opportunities that may present themselves. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2014 Notes and the 2016 Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008 (and effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008), the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which we refer to as FASB, issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which subsequently was included under FASB Accounting Standards Codification Section 470-20, Debt with Conversion and other Options (“ASC 470-20”). Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for our outstanding convertible notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheets and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the notes. As a result, we will be required to record non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the notes to their face amount over the term of the notes. We will report higher interest expense in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the notes. Finally, because the notes will be convertible at any time until close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, applicable accounting rules may require us to classify all or a portion of the outstanding principal amount of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability which would result in a material reduction in our net working capital. Our stockholders may be diluted by the conversion of our outstanding convertible notes. The holders of the 2014 Notes may choose at any time to convert their notes into common stock prior to maturity in June 2014. The holders of the 2016 Notes may choose at any time to convert their notes prior to maturing in January 2016, and upon conversion we may issue cash, stock, or a combination thereof at our option. The 2014 Notes are convertible into our common stock, initially at the conversion price of $10.28 per share, equal to a conversion rate of approximately 97.2644 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the 2014 Notes. The 2016 Notes are convertible into our common stock initially at the conversion rate of 19.5160 shares per $1,000 principal amount, or approximately $51.24 per share, subject to adjustment. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, and therefore the dilution of existing common stockholders, could increase under certain circumstances described in the indentures under which the 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes were issued. The conversion of the 2014 Notes and potentially the 2016 Notes will result in the issuance of additional shares of common stock, diluting existing common stockholders. 23 We may elect to issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into our common stock, which could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. Future sales of our common stock will depend primarily on the market price of our common stock, the terms we may receive upon the sale of debt or convertible securities, the interest in our company by institutional investors and our cash needs. In addition, we may register additional equity, debt or other convertible securities with the SEC for sale in the future. Each of our issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock to investors under a registration statement or otherwise will proportionately decrease our existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of our total outstanding equity interests and may reduce our stock price. Our business, financial condition and future prospects could suffer as a result of carrying out strategic alternatives in the future. We may decide it is in our best interests to engage in a strategic transaction that could dilute our existing stockholders or cause us to incur contingent liabilities, commitments, or significant expense. In the course of pursuing strategic alternatives, we may evaluate potential acquisitions or investments in related businesses, products or technologies. Future acquisitions or investments could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the assumption of additional indebtedness or contingent liabilities; • risks and uncertainties associated with the other party to such a transaction, including but not limited to the prospects of that party and their existing products or product candidates and regulatory approvals; • the loss of key personnel and business relationships; • difficulties associated with assimilating and integrating new personnel, intellectual property and operations of an acquired company; • our inability to generate revenue from acquired technology and/or products sufficient to meet our objectives in undertaking the acquisition or even to offset the associated acquisition and maintenance costs; and • the distraction of our management from our existing product programs and initiatives in pursuing such a strategic merger or acquisition. In connection with an acquisition, we must estimate the value of the transaction by making certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a transaction. We may incur as part of a transaction substantial charges for closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired in-process research and development charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. Any strategic transaction we may pursue may not result in the benefits we initially believe, and/or result in costs that end up outweighing the benefits, and may adversely impact our financial condition and business prospects. Risks Related to Regulation of the Pharmaceutical Industry PROVENGE and our other products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain required regulatory approvals. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and potentially by foreign regulatory authorities, with regulations differing from country to country. In the United States, the FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, potency, labeling, storage, record keeping, quality systems, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of therapeutic products. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, one or more of the following actions: notices of violation, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. We are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. Obtaining regulatory 24 approval for marketing of a product candidate in one country does not ensure we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in other countries but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries. Once approved, the FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing, change product labeling or mandate withdrawal of our products. The marketing of our approved products will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, including adverse event reporting requirements. In general, the FDA requires advertising and promotional labeling to be truthful and not misleading, and marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA routinely provides its interpretations of that authority in informal communications and also in more formal communications such as untitled letters or warning letters, and although such communications are not final agency decisions, companies may decide not to contest the agency’s interpretations so as to avoid disputes with the FDA, even if they believe the claims to be truthful, not misleading and otherwise lawful. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities were to challenge our promotional materials or activities, they may bring enforcement action. The manufacturing facilities for our approved products are also subject to continual review and periodic inspection and approval of manufacturing modifications. The FDA stringently applies regulatory standards for manufacturing. Manufacturing facilities that manufacture drug products for the United States market, whether they are located inside or outside the United States, are subject to biennial inspections by the FDA and must comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, regulations. The FDA can delay, limit or withhold approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including the following: • a product candidate may not demonstrate sufficient safety in human trials or efficacy in treatment; • the FDA may determine that certain aspects of the clinical testing, manufacture, or quality control are not in compliance with the regulations; • the FDA may interpret data from preclinical testing and clinical trials in different ways than we interpret the data or may require additional and/or different categories of data than what we obtained in our clinical trials; • the FDA may require additional information about the efficacy, safety, purity, stability, identity or functionality of a product candidate; • the FDA may not approve our manufacturing processes or facilities or the processes or facilities of our contract manufacturers; and • the FDA may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations that impact our business. Our failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from selling a product in that jurisdiction and receiving product sales revenues. Any product and its manufacturer will continue to be subject to strict regulations after approval, including but not limited to, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and record-keeping requirements. Any problems with an approved product, including the later exhibition of adverse effects or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market, which could materially harm our business. The process of obtaining approvals in foreign countries is subject to delay and failure for many of the same reasons. Regulatory agencies could also add new regulations or change existing regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. The 2007 creation of the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (“FDAAA”) significantly added to the FDA’s authority, allowing the FDA to (i) require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products and (iii) require sponsors to implement a REMS (“Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy”) for a product. Failure to comply with FDAAA requirements could result in significant civil monetary penalties, reputational harm and increased product liability risk. The process of obtaining required FDA and other regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. PROVENGE and our investigational cellular immunotherapies are novel; therefore, regulatory agencies may lack experience with them, which may lengthen the 25 regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of PROVENGE outside of the U.S. and with respect to our active immunotherapy products under development. We are unable to predict when and whether any changes to regulatory policy affecting our business could occur, and such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, a new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, they may not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for product candidates could prevent us from selling our products in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing, testing, product approvals, pricing and reimbursement outside the United States vary greatly from country to country. In addition, the time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ significantly from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on the timeframe we may desire, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and foreign regulatory authorities could require additional testing. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. Our product sales depend on adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. Our sale of PROVENGE is dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. We rely in large part on the reimbursement coverage by federal and state sponsored government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States. In the event we seek approvals to market PROVENGE in non-U.S. territories, we will need to work with the government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and other foreign countries that are the primary payers of healthcare costs in those regions. Governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to PROVENGE and any other products we may market to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. We cannot predict the availability or level of coverage and reimbursement for PROVENGE or our product candidates and a reduction in coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. The availability and amount of reimbursement for PROVENGE and our product candidates and the manner in which government and private payers may reimburse for our potential products is uncertain. In many of the markets where we may do business in the future, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to direct price controls pursuant to applicable law or regulation and to drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. We expect that many of the patients in the U.S. who seek treatment with PROVENGE or any other of our products that are approved for marketing will be eligible for Medicare benefits. Other patients may be covered by private health plans. The Medicare program is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), and coverage and reimbursement for products and services under Medicare are determined pursuant to regulations promulgated by CMS and pursuant to CMS’s subregulatory coverage and reimbursement determinations. It is difficult to predict how CMS may apply those regulations and policy determinations to newly approved products, especially novel products such as ours, and those regulations and interpretive determinations are subject to change. Moreover, the procedures by which CMS makes coverage and reimbursement determinations is subject to change, particularly because of budgetary pressures facing the Medicare program. On June 30, 2010, CMS initiated a national coverage analysis (“NCA”) for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer with PROVENGE. As a part of the process, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality published a draft technology assessment on the outcomes of PROVENGE therapy on November 2, 2010 solely for the 26 discussion and review by the Medicare Evidence Development & Coverage Advisory Committee (“MedCAC”) at its meeting on November 17, 2010. CMS expects to issue a proposed decision on or before March 30, 2011, and the final decision should be released on or before June 30, 2011. During the pendency of the NCA, CMS may engage in discussions with local Medicare contractors or make statements that could be interpreted negatively. which could create uncertainty among contractors and have a chilling effect on coverage determinations. We cannot predict at this time whether CMS will issue a national coverage determination (“NCD”), and if so, whether the NCD will be favorable to PROVENGE. In the event Medicare and private health plans do not provide for adequate levels of reimbursement support and coverage of PROVENGE, our ability to sell PROVENGE will be adversely affected. In addition, third-party payors may impose additional coverage criteria that may restrict the use of PROVENGE, including, for example, utilization parameters and limiting the sites of service and/or providers who may be reimbursed for certain services. This may adversely affect our ability to market or sell PROVENGE or our other potential products, if approved. In addition, major health care legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), was passed in March 2010 and, absent changes to the new law, is expected to substantially impact the U.S. pharmaceutical industry and how health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Some of the specific key PPACA provisions, among other things: • establish annual, non-deductible fees on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologics, beginning 2011; • expand eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; and • establish a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research. Moreover, a number of state and federal legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at reforming the healthcare system in the United States continue to be proposed, the effect of which, if enacted, could adversely impact our product sales and results of operations. In the European Union, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. The approach taken varies from member state to member state. Some jurisdictions operate positive and/or negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products, as exemplified by the role of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom, which evaluates the data supporting new medicines and passes reimbursement recommendations to the government. All of these factors could adversely impact our ability to successfully commercialize product candidates in these jurisdictions. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to significant regulation and oversight in the United States to prevent inducement and fraud pursuant to anti-kickback laws and false claims statutes. In the United States, we are also subject to health care fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the federal health care programs’ Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation 27 of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; • federal “sunshine” laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by PPACA on drug manufacturers regarding any “transfer of value” made or distributed to prescribers and other health care providers; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. Some states, such as California, Massachusetts and Vermont, mandate implementation of commercial compliance programs to ensure compliance with these laws. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes; a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Moreover, we expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to health care fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement, may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive. Our operations produce hazardous waste products, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials complies with the standards prescribed by state and federal laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such hazardous waste products and store our low level radioactive waste at our facilities in compliance with applicable environmental laws until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), and the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other regulatory statutes, and may in the future be subject to other federal, state or local regulations. OSHA and/or the EPA may promulgate regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We may be required to incur further costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety laws and regulations. In addition, in the event of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result, including remediation, and any such liability could exceed our resources. 28 Risks from Competitive Factors Our competitors may develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective, safer or reach the market sooner, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any products we may commercialize. Competition in the cancer therapeutics field is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of advancements in product development. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter our markets. Some competitors are pursuing product development strategies competitive with ours. In addition, we compete with other clinical-stage companies and institutions for clinical trial participants, which could reduce our ability to recruit participants for our clinical trials. Delay in recruiting clinical trial participants could adversely affect our ability to bring a product to market prior to our competitors. Further, research and discoveries by others may result in breakthroughs that render potential products obsolete before they generate revenue. There are products currently under development by other companies and organizations that could compete with PROVENGE, and potentially other products that we are developing. Products such as androgen metabolism or androgen receptor antagonists, endothelin A receptor antagonists, antisense compounds, angiogenesis inhibitors and gene therapies for cancer are also under development by a number of companies and could potentially compete with PROVENGE and product candidates we may develop. Chemotherapeutic, taxane-based therapy has been available since 2004 for the therapeutic treatment of metastatic, androgen-independent prostate cancer. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes may become active in cancer research, which may be in direct competition with us. Some of our competitors in the cancer therapeutics field have substantially greater research and development capabilities and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. In addition, our competitors may obtain patent protection or FDA approval and commercialize products more rapidly than we do, which may impact future sales of our products. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product efficacy, price, safety, reliability, availability, patent protection, and sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our profitability and financial position will suffer if our products receive regulatory approval, but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace. We could face competition for PROVENGE or other approved products from biosimilar products which could impact our profitability. We may face competition in Europe from biosimilar products, and we expect we may face competition from biosimilars in the future in the U.S. as well. Lawmakers in the United States have recently enacted healthcare reform legislation which included an abbreviated regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. The E.U. has already created such a regulatory pathway. To the extent that governments adopt more permissive approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to increased competition. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. In the E.U., the European Commission has granted marketing authorizations for several biosimilars pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines for biosimilar approvals issued over the past few years. We cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products could impact our future potential sale of PROVENGE in the E.U. Our inability to compete effectively in non-U.S. territories would reduce global sales potential, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the PPACA which authorized the FDA to approve biosimilar products. The new law established a period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference products in order to preserve incentives for future innovation and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar approval standards that take into account patient safety considerations. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the innovator’s data in their application to the FDA. The next phase of the process will be implementation of the biosimilars regulatory approval pathway by the FDA. The new law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. While the FDA now has the authority to approve 29 biosimilar products, the FDA has not announced whether they will first publish guidance or rules for biosimilar applicants before approving biosimilar products. With the likely introduction of a pathway for the approval of biosimilars in the United States, we may in the future face greater competition from biosimilar products and downward pressure on our product prices, sales and revenues, subject to our ability to enforce our patents. Further, biosimilar manufacturers with approved products in Europe may seek to quickly obtain U.S. approval now that the regulatory pathway for biosimilars has been enacted. Failure to retain key personnel could impede our ability to develop our products and to obtain new collaborations or other sources of funding. We depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts of our key employees, including senior management and senior scientific, clinical, regulatory, operational and other personnel. The development of new therapeutic products requires expertise from a number of different disciplines, some of which are not widely available. We depend upon our scientific staff to discover new product candidates and to develop and conduct preclinical studies of those new potential products. Our clinical and regulatory staff is responsible for the design and execution of clinical trials in accordance with FDA requirements and for the advancement of our product candidates toward FDA approval and submission of data supporting approval. The quality and reputation of our scientific, clinical and regulatory staff, especially the senior staff, and their success in performing their responsibilities, may directly influence the success of our product development programs. As we pursue successful commercialization of PROVENGE, our sales and marketing, and operations executive management staff takes on increasing significance and influence upon our organizational success. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers are involved in a broad range of critical activities, including providing strategic and operational guidance. The loss of these individuals, or our inability to retain or recruit other key management and scientific, clinical, regulatory, medical, operational and other personnel, may delay or prevent us from achieving our business objectives. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Risks Relating to Collaboration Arrangements and Reliance on Third Parties We must rely at present on relationships with third-party suppliers to supply necessary components used in our products, which relationships are not easy to replace. We rely upon contract manufacturers for components used in the manufacture and distribution of PROVENGE. Problems with any of our or our suppliers’ facilities or processes could result in failure to produce or a delay in production of adequate supplies of the antigen or other components we use in the manufacture of PROVENGE. This could delay or reduce commercial sales and materially harm our business. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our suppliers’ facilities could result in cancellation of orders, loss of components in the process of being manufactured or a shortfall in availability of a necessary component. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials, equipment malfunctions or failures, damage to a facility due to natural disasters, changes in FDA regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to manufacturing processes, or action by us to implement process changes or other similar factors. Because manufacturing processes are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified supply may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our suppliers’ manufacturing and supply of components could delay our clinical trials, increase our costs, damage our reputation and, for PROVENGE, cause us to lose revenue or market share if we are unable to timely meet market demands. We are dependent on our leukapheresis network for raw materials required for the manufacture of PROVENGE. The manufacture of each patient-specific dose of PROVENGE first requires we obtain immune cells from the relevant patient, which is done through a leukapheresis process at a cell collection center with which we have contracted. We have entered into agreements with independent cell collection and blood centers, including the American Red Cross, to perform this process for us. However there are a finite number of centers with the requisite skill, training, staffing and equipment to perform the leukapheresis procedure for PROVENGE patients and we 30 cannot be certain that as our manufacturing capacity expands the leukapheresis network presently available to us will be sufficient to service demand at full capacity. We anticipate that we will need to expand the leukapheresis network available to us prospectively through additional partnerships or other endeavors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to secure sufficient leukapheresis capacity to manufacture PROVENGE when and as desired. If we are unable to expand our access to these services as necessary, our revenues will suffer and our business could be harmed. We rely on single source vendors for some key components for PROVENGE and our active immunotherapy product candidates, which could impair our ability to manufacture and supply our products. We currently depend on single source vendors for components used in PROVENGE and other active immunotherapy candidates. We have a long-term contract with Diosynth RTP, Inc. for the production of the antigen used in the manufacturing of PROVENGE, and have recently entered into an agreement with GlaxoSmithKline LLC to establish an additional source of supply of the antigen. Any production shortfall on the part of Diosynth or, assuming successful completion of process implementation, GlaxoSmithKline, that impairs the supply of the antigen to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain other raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in the drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. An inability to continue to source product from any of these suppliers, which could be due to regulatory actions or requirements affecting the supplier, adverse financial or other strategic developments experienced by a supplier, labor disputes or shortages, unexpected demands or quality issues, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for PROVENGE or other products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially or our ability to conduct clinical trials, either of which could significantly harm our business. If we fail to enter into any needed collaboration agreements for our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize them effectively or at all. Product collaborations are complex and any potential discussions may not result in a definitive agreement for many reasons. For example, whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration would depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator’s resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration, and the proposed collaborator’s evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the potential market for the product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering the product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge and industry and market conditions generally. If we were to determine that a collaboration for a particular product is necessary in order to commercialize it and were unable to enter into such a collaboration on acceptable terms, we might elect to delay or scale back the commercialization of a product in order to preserve our financial resources or to allow us adequate time to develop the required physical resources and systems and expertise ourselves. If we enter into a collaboration agreement we consider acceptable, the collaboration may not proceed as quickly, smoothly or successfully as we plan. The risks in a collaboration agreement generally include: • the collaborator may not apply the expected financial resources or required expertise in developing the physical resources and systems necessary to successfully commercialize a product; • the collaborator may not invest in the development of a sales and marketing force and the related infrastructure at levels that ensure that sales of a product reach their full potential; • disputes may arise between us and a collaborator that delay the commercialization of the product or adversely affect its sales or profitability; or 31 • the collaborator may independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with the product. With respect to a collaboration for any of our products or product candidates, we are dependent on the success of our collaborators in performing their respective responsibilities and the continued cooperation of our collaborators. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to activities related to our collaborative agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. A collaborator may have the right to terminate the collaboration at its discretion. Any termination may require us to seek a new collaborator, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis, if at all, or require us to delay or scale back the commercialization efforts. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of product candidates we may commercialize and materially harm our business and stock price by slowing the pace of growth of such sales, by reducing the profitability of the product or by adversely affecting the reputation of the product in the market. Risks in Protecting Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or to defend against infringement claims, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. We invent and develop technologies that are the basis for or incorporated in our potential products. We protect our technology through United States and foreign patent filings, trademarks and trade secrets. We have issued patents, and applications for United States and foreign patents in various stages of prosecution. We expect that we will continue to file and prosecute patent applications and that our success depends in part on our ability to establish and defend our proprietary rights in the technologies that are the subject of issued patents and patent applications. The fact that we have filed a patent application or that a patent has issued, however, does not ensure that we will have meaningful protection from competition with regard to the underlying technology or product. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated, declared unenforceable or circumvented or may not cover all applications we may desire. Our pending patent applications as well as those we may file in the future may not result in issued patents. Patents may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or advantages against competitors with, or who could develop, similar or competing technologies or who could design around our patents. We also rely on trade secrets and know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements. Our policy is to require our officers, employees, consultants, contractors, manufacturers, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific limited circumstances. We also require signed confidentiality agreements from companies that receive our confidential data. For employees, consultants and contractors, we require confidentiality agreements providing that all inventions conceived while rendering services to us shall be assigned to us as our exclusive property. It is possible, however, that these parties may breach those agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets or know-how will otherwise become known to or be independently developed by competitors. We are also subject to the risk of claims, whether meritorious or not, that our products or immunotherapy candidates infringe or misappropriate third party intellectual property rights. If we are found to infringe or misappropriate third party intellectual property, we could be required to seek a license or discontinue our products or cease using certain technologies or delay commercialization of the affected product or products, and we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could materially harm our business. We may be subject to litigation with respect to the ownership and use of intellectual property that will be costly to defend or pursue and uncertain in its outcome. Our business may bring us into conflict with our licensees, licensors or others with whom we have contractual or other business relationships, or with our competitors or others whose interests differ from ours. If we are unable to 32 resolve those conflicts on terms that are satisfactory to all parties, we may become involved in litigation brought by or against us. That litigation is likely to be expensive and may require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, at the expense of other aspects of our business. Litigation relating to the ownership and use of intellectual property is expensive, and our position as a relatively small company in an industry dominated by very large companies may cause us to be at a disadvantage in defending our intellectual property rights and in defending against claims that our immunotherapy candidates infringe or misappropriate third party intellectual property rights. Even if we are able to defend our position, the cost of doing so may adversely affect our profitability. We may in the future be subject to patent litigation and may not be able to protect our intellectual property at a reasonable cost if such litigation is initiated. The outcome of litigation is always uncertain, and in some cases could include judgments against us that require us to pay damages, enjoin us from certain activities or otherwise affect our legal or contractual rights, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to potential product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us at a reasonable rate in the future. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of drug candidates and products. If any of our drug candidates in clinical trials or our marketed products harm people or allegedly harm people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Most, if not all, of the patients who participate in our clinical trials are already seriously ill when they enter a trial. We have clinical trial insurance coverage, and commercial product liability insurance coverage. However, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims against us. There is also a risk that adequate insurance coverage will not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The successful assertion of an uninsured product liability or other claim against us could cause us to incur significant expenses to pay such a claim, could adversely affect our product development or product sales and could cause a decline in our product revenues. Even a successfully defended product liability claim could cause us to incur significant expenses to defend such a claim, could adversely affect our product development and could cause a decline in our product revenues. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our business may be affected by legal proceedings. We have been in the past, and may become in the future, involved in legal proceedings. You should carefully review and consider the various disclosures we make in our reports filed with the SEC regarding legal matters that may affect our business. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable and outcomes can result in excessive verdicts, fines, penalties and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, and considering stockholder demands, is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, legal fees and costs incurred in connection with such activities may be significant. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any legal proceedings in which we become involved and it is difficult to estimate the possible costs to us stemming from these matters. Settlements and decisions adverse to our interests in legal actions could result in the payment of substantial amounts and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Market volatility may affect our stock price, and the value of an investment in our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. The trading price for our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price at which our common stock trades depends on a number of factors, including the following, many of which are beyond our control: • the relative success of our commercialization efforts for PROVENGE; • preclinical and clinical trial results and other product development activities; • our historical and anticipated operating results, including fluctuations in our financial and operating results; 33 • changes in government regulations affecting product approvals, reimbursement or other aspects of our or our competitors’ businesses; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • developments concerning our key personnel; • our ability to protect our intellectual property, including in the face of changing laws; • announcements regarding significant collaborations or strategic alliances; • publicity regarding actual or potential performance of products under development by us or our competitors; • market perception of the prospects for biotechnology companies as an industry sector; and • general market and economic conditions. During periods of extreme stock market price volatility, share prices of many biotechnology companies have often fluctuated in a manner not necessarily related to their individual operating performance. Accordingly, our common stock may be subject to greater price volatility than the stock market as a whole. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law and our stockholders’ rights plan could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended (“certification of incorporation”) and amended and restated bylaws (“bylaws”) will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 1,000,000 shares have been designated as “Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock,” and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be junior to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could reduce the voting power of the holders of our common stock and the likelihood that common stockholders will receive payments upon liquidation. In addition, our certificate of incorporation divides our board of directors into three classes having staggered terms. This may delay any attempt to replace our board of directors. We have also implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which would substantially reduce or eliminate the expected economic benefit to an acquirer from acquiring us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. These and other impediments to a third party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our executive officers have employment agreements that include change of control provisions providing severance benefits in the event that their employment terminates involuntarily without cause or for good reason within twelve months after a change of control of us. These agreements could affect the consummation of and the terms of a third party acquisition. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. One of these provisions prevents us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless specified conditions are satisfied. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business and do not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our shareholders will not realize a return on their investment unless they sell shares after the trading price of our shares appreciates. 34 The fundamental change repurchase feature of our convertible notes may delay or prevent a takeover attempt of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. The indenture governing each of our 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes will require us to repurchase the notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and, in certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for a holder that converts its notes in connection with a fundamental change. A takeover of our company may trigger the requirement that we repurchase the notes and increase the conversion rate, which could make it more costly for a potential acquirer to engage in a combinatory transaction with us. Such additional costs may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 