ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may experience losses in the future. We have not reported an operating profit for any year since our inception and experienced net losses of $10.7 million, $11.3 million and $43.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, stock-based compensation expense required to be recorded in our financial statements by SFAS 123(R) since January 1, 2006 has had and will continue to have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Our success will depend in large part upon the adoption and utilization of our products and technology, as well as our ability to effectively maintain existing relationships and develop new relationships with customers and strategic partners. If we do not succeed in doing so, we may not achieve profitability and, if we ever become profitable, may not be able to maintain profitability. In particular, we intend to expend significant financial and management resources on product development, sales and marketing, strategic relationships, technology and operating infrastructure. This includes our focus on development of optical networking and VoIP products, which has not resulted in significant revenues, as well as our focus on major enhancements and improvements to our DSL products. Our operating expenses may increase further in the future, and we cannot assure you that we will develop and sustain a cost structure that will lead to profitability under current and expected revenue levels. As a result, we expect to incur additional losses and continued negative cash flow from operations for the foreseeable future. 11 Because of our lack of diversity in geographic sources of revenues, the slowdown in deployment of ADSL in Japan and other factors specific to Japan have negatively affected and will probably continue to adversely affect our business and operating results. Historically, our revenues have been largely dependent on the growth of new ADSL subscribers in Japan, but that market has been declining significantly in recent periods. Revenues from Japan comprised 52%, 64% and 78% of our net revenues for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Revenues from Japan in 2006 as compared to 2005, which have been largely attributable to our ADSL products, decreased by $15.6 million, or 32%. We believe there will be a substantial decrease in the number of new ADSL subscribers in Japan in 2007 and beyond, which will negatively affect our future revenues. Because a substantial portion of our revenues has been derived from sales into Japan, our revenues have been heavily dependent on developments in the Japanese market. Our sales in Japan have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars and major fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially affect our Japanese customers' demand, thereby forcing them to reduce their orders, which could adversely affect our operating results. While part of our strategy is to diversify the geographic sources of our revenues, failure to further penetrate markets outside of Japan could harm our business and results of operations and subject us to increased currency risk. We derive a substantial majority of our revenues from ADSL products, and our failure to diversify our sources of our revenues could harm our business and operating results. Historically, our revenues have been derived primarily from the sale of our ADSL products. ADSL revenues accounted for 77%, 79% and 94% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Because of our dependence on ADSL products, we will be disproportionately affected by any decline in demand for ADSL equipment that arises due to changes in telecommunications service providers' strategies or deployment budgets, increased competition from other access technologies, or other factors. We also expect to face increasing pricing pressures in the ADSL markets outside of Japan. If we are unsuccessful in generating meaningful sales of our ADSL products outside of Japan and our VDSL2, VoIP and FTTP products, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner or to achieve market acceptance of our new products, our operating results would be adversely affected. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new semiconductor products for existing and new markets, introduce these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and have these products selected by leading equipment manufacturers for design into their own new products. This is particularly important due to our expectation that demand for our principal ADSL products will continue to decline in Japan, which has historically been our largest market. The development of new silicon products is highly complex, and from time to time we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and lower than anticipated manufacturing yields in the early production of such products, as well as unanticipated failures of equipment manufacturers to select our products. Our ability to develop and deliver new products successfully will depend on various factors, including our ability to: timely and accurately predict market requirements and evolving industry standards; successfully define new products; timely and accurately identify opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new product designs; scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our products and services; license any desired third party technology or intellectual property rights; 12 timely qualify and obtain industry interoperability certification of our products and the products of our customers into which our products will be incorporated; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; achieve high manufacturing yields; shift our products to smaller geometry process technologies to achieve lower cost and higher levels of design integration; and gain market acceptance of our products and our customers' products. If we are not able to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, we may need to explore purchasing new products, which could give rise to substantial costs and disruption of our existing operations and sales efforts. If we are unsuccessful in introducing or acquiring new products, we may be unable to attract new customers or to retain our existing customers, which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, one such FTTP PON customer in Japan, which we had expected to account for a significant percentage of this growth, has declined to purchase our current FTTP PON product because it did not meet a previously waived requirement. Moreover, we had to develop, at substantial cost, a next generation PON product that includes new features required by this customer. Since our FTTP PON products are primarily targeted at the Japanese market, if we are not successful with this customer, it could lead us to decide to scale down or exit our optical product line. This could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations for 2007 and would impair our growth prospects. Even if we are successful in convincing this Japanese customer to accept our new FTTP PON product, we may be required to incur further product development and support expenses, and do not expect to recognize any appreciable revenues from this product until the third quarter 2007 at the earliest. There can be no assurance that our PON products will meet customer requirements now or in the future and that even if they do meet these requirements, that our customers will purchase our products. Because manufacturers of communications equipment may be reluctant to change their sources of components, if we do not achieve design wins with such manufacturers, we may be unable to secure sales from them in the future. Once a manufacturer of communications equipment has designed a supplier's semiconductor into its products, the manufacturer may be reluctant to change its source of semiconductors due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier. Accordingly, our failure to achieve design wins, or our competitors' ability to achieve design wins, with equipment manufacturers, could create barriers to future sales opportunities with these manufacturers. We depend on a few customers, and if we lose any of them, our sales and operations will suffer. We sell our products primarily to network equipment manufacturers. NEC accounted for 23%, 26% and 42% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Sumitomo accounted for 26%, 35% and 35% of net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Lucent Technologies accounted for 12% and 13% of net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Marconi (acquired by Ericsson in January 2006) accounted for 16% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. We do not have contractual volume commitments with these customers; instead, we sell our products to them on an order-by-order basis. Our ability to maintain relationships with these large customers is essential to our operating results and financial condition. However, this dependence means that we are especially susceptible to factors that affect their purchasing decisions that are, in many instances, outside of our direct control. These factors include, among other things: the fact that many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our competitors that may affect the customers' decision to purchase our products; the success of our largest OEM customers; 13 competition for end customers' business from certain of our OEM customers, who develop their own semiconductor solutions; our customers' budgeting processes and strategies; and the continued demand for our customers' systems products. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our large customers for various reasons. Our concentration of business and on-going relationships with our major customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these existing customers from buying our products. We expect to be dependent upon a relatively small number of large customers in future periods, although the specific customers may vary from period to period. If we are not successful in maintaining relationships with key customers and winning new customers, our business and results of operations will suffer. Moreover, our customers are in most cases larger than us, and because our revenues are concentrated among a relatively small number of customers, they tend to have greater bargaining power to demand lower prices and other terms and conditions that may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, our customers are increasingly requiring us to agree to terms of sale that impose greater costs and risks on us than in the past. Our quarterly operating results are volatile, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter based on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control including: the size, timing and shipment of orders, especially large orders from our largest customers; increasing operating expenses, difficulty forecasting customers' order levels, because they are susceptible to changes in customers' strategies, budgets and success in selling their own systems; excess inventory resulting from the need to make purchasing decisions in advance of customer purchase orders and from any deferred or canceled orders; ongoing pricing pressure; and limitations on our ability to further reduce fixed expenses to correspond to declines in revenues. We anticipate lower margins as products mature and as we experience aggressive competition, which could adversely affect our profitability. We expect the average selling prices of our products to decline as they mature. Historically, competition in the semiconductor industry has driven down the average selling prices of products. If we price our products too high, our customers may use a competitor's product or an in-house solution. To maintain profit margins, we must reduce our costs sufficiently to offset declines in average selling prices, or successfully sell proportionately more new products with higher average selling prices. Yield or other production problems, or shortages of supply may preclude us from lowering or maintaining current product costs. We have also experienced more aggressive price competition from competitors in certain market segments in which we are attempting to expand our business. These circumstances may make some of our products less competitive and we may be forced to decrease our prices significantly to win a design. We may lose design opportunities or may experience overall declines in gross margins and gross profits as a result of increased price competition. We base orders for inventory on our forecasts of our customers' demand and if our forecasts are inaccurate, our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows will suffer. We place orders with our suppliers based on our forecasts of our customers' demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce errors into our estimates. In the past, when the demand for our customers' products increased significantly, we were not always able to meet demand on a timely basis, and we expended a significant amount of time working with our customers to allocate limited supply and maintain positive customer relations. If we underestimate customer demand, we may forego revenue opportunities, lose market share and damage our customer relationships. Conversely, if we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to or at all. As a result, we would have excess or obsolete inventory, resulting in a decline in the value of our inventory, which would increase 14 our cost of revenues and create a drain on our liquidity. For example, we recorded write-downs of $2.6 million of excess inventory in 2006, due to a substantial decrease in customer forecasted customer purchases. Our failure to accurately manage inventory against demand would adversely affect our financial results. Our markets are highly competitive and many of our competitors are established and have greater resources than we have. The market for communications semiconductor and software solutions is intensely competitive. Given our stage of development, there is a substantial risk that we will not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully. In addition, a number of other semiconductor companies have entered or may enter the market segments adjacent to or addressed by our products. These competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger installed customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. We may also face competition from customers' or prospective customers' own internal development efforts. Any of these competitors may be able to introduce new technologies, respond more quickly to changing customer requirements or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Third-party claims regarding intellectual property matters could cause us to stop selling our products, pay monetary damages or obtain licenses on adverse terms. There is a significant risk that third parties, including current and potential competitors, will claim that our products, or our customers' products, infringe on their intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded or in the future may demand that we license their patents and technology. Any such litigation, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, would be costly and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. Inquiries with respect to the coverage of our intellectual property could develop into litigation. In such a litigation, a court could issue a preliminary injunction that would require us to withdraw or recall certain products. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. In the event of an adverse ruling for an intellectual property infringement claim, we could be required to obtain a license or pay substantial damages (including treble damages) or have the sale of our products stopped by a permanent injunction. Such a license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. We may be unable to redesign our products to avoid infringing the third party's intellectual property rights. Even if we are able to do so, the redesign would likely require considerable time and expense, and the redesigned products could be less attractive to customers. In addition, if a current or prospective customer of our products cannot acquire a required license on commercially reasonable terms, that customer may choose not to use our products. We also have obligations to indemnify our customers under some circumstances for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. We have also received requests from certain customers to include increasingly broad indemnification provisions in our agreements with them. These indemnification provisions may, in some circumstances, result in liability for combinations of components or system level designs and consequential damages and/or lost profits and the associated costs to us could be substantial. Even if indemnification claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, responding to them could entail significant costs, impair customer goodwill, and divert the attention of management and other key employees. Any third-party intellectual property claim against one of our customers whom we may be obligated to indemnify could result in substantial costs to us, as well as damaging our customer relationships. In August 2004, Fujitsu Limited filed a suit against Centillium and Centillium Japan K.K (Centillium Japan) in the Tokyo District Court alleging that Centillium and Centillium Japan infringe one Japanese patent jointly owned by Fujitsu and Ricoh Co., Ltd. The complaint seeks significant monetary damages against Centillium and Centillium Japan. The suit is in process and we do not believe it is possible to predict or determine the outcome or resolution of this litigation with any certainty at this point. We have already incurred and are likely to continue to incur substantial expenses in our defense against these claims. In the event of a determination adverse to us, we may incur substantial liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 15 We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time these and other factors, together with changes in general economic conditions, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry, and in our business in particular. Periods of industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints, which may affect our ability to ship product compared to our competitors and result in deteriorating market share. These factors have caused substantial fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our businesses in the past and we may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future. Recent changes to environmental laws and regulations applicable to manufacturers of electrical and electronic equipment are causing us to redesign our products, and may result in increases to our costs and greater exposure to liability. The implementation of new environmental regulatory legal requirements, such as lead free initiatives, could impact our product designs and manufacturing processes. The impact of such regulations on our product designs and manufacturing processes could affect the timing of compliant product introductions as well as their commercial success. For example, a recent directive in the European Union bans the use of lead and other heavy metals in electrical and electronic equipment after July 1, 2006. As a result, our customers selling products in Europe have begun demanding product from component manufacturers that do not contain these banned substances. We have redesigned our products to meet customer demands, but these redesigns may result in increased manufacturing and quality control costs. In addition, the products that we manufacture that comply with the new regulatory standards may not perform as well as our current products. Moreover, if we are unable to successfully and timely introduce new products that meet the standards set by environmental regulation and our customers, sales of our products could decline, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on sole or limited source suppliers for the manufacture of our products. As a fabless semiconductor company that neither owns nor operates a fabrication or manufacturing facility, we are heavily dependent on certain suppliers. We obtain certain parts, components and packaging used in the delivery of our products from sole or limited sources of supply. For example, we obtain certain semiconductor wafers on a sole source basis from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd and Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation. Developing and maintaining these strategic relationships with our vendors is critical for us to be successful. Any of our sole or limited source suppliers may: experience delays in meeting our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all; enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors; stop selling their products or components to us at commercially reasonable prices; refuse to sell their products or components to us at any price; or be subject to production disruptions caused by power outages, earthquakes and financial difficulties. Our business is susceptible to disruption, and our results of operations can be adversely affected, by any disruption in supply or other adverse developments in our relationships with vendors. In periods of high demand in the semiconductor market, our suppliers may have insufficient capacity to enable us to meet our customers' delivery requirements on a timely basis. In addition, we could experience similar delays due to technical and quality control problems at our suppliers' facilities. If any of these events occur, or if our suppliers' facilities suffer any damage or disruption, we may not be able to meet our customer demand on a timely basis, or at all, and may need to successfully qualify an alternative supplier in a timely manner in order to not disrupt our business. We typically require a significant period of time to qualify a new supplier or process before we can begin shipping products. If we 16 cannot accomplish this qualification in a timely manner, we would experience a significant interruption in supply of the affected products. If we are unable to secure sufficient capacity at our suppliers' existing facilities, or in the event of a closure or significant delay at any of these facilities, our relationships with our customers would be harmed and our market share and operating results would suffer as a result. If the demand for DSL, VoIP and FTTP broadband access services does not increase, we may not be able to generate substantial sales. Sales of our products depend on the increased use and widespread adoption of broadband access services, especially DSL, VoIP and FTTP, and the ability of telecommunications service providers to market and sell broadband access services. Our business would be harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, if the use of broadband access services does not increase as anticipated. Certain critical factors will likely continue to affect the development of the broadband access service market. These factors include: inconsistent quality and reliability of service; lack of availability of cost-effective, high-speed service; lack of interoperability among multiple vendors' network equipment; congestion in service providers' networks; inadequate security; and slow deployment of new broadband services over DSL lines. In addition, our FTTP PON products are based on a variant of passive optical networking technology that is utilized by a few service providers in Japan and Asia. Accordingly, even if service providers deploy FTTP more widely in the future, demand for our products may not increase to a commensurate extent or at all. Rapid changes in the market for broadband access chip sets may render our chip sets obsolete or unmarketable. The market for our products is characterized by: intense competition; rapid technological change; frequent new product introductions by our competitors; changes in customer demands; and evolving industry standards. Any of these factors could make our products obsolete or unmarketable. In addition, the life cycles of some of our products may depend upon the life cycles of the end products into which our products will be designed. Products with short life cycles require us to closely manage production and inventory levels. Unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products and/or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed may result in obsolete or excess inventories, which in turn may adversely affect our operating results. To compete, we must innovate and introduce new products. If we fail to successfully introduce new products on a timely and cost-effective basis that meet customer requirements and are compatible with evolving industry standards, then our business, financial condition and results of operations will be seriously harmed. 17 Because the sales cycle for our products typically lasts up to one year or longer, and may be subject to delays, it is difficult to forecast sales for any given period. The sales cycle of our products is lengthy and typically involves a detailed initial technical evaluation of our products by our prospective customers, followed by the design, construction and testing of prototypes incorporating our products. Our customers' evaluation can include lengthy product approval processes. In the past, we have experienced delays and difficulties in obtaining product approvals from some customers, such as our recent inability to obtain product certification from a Japanese FTTP customer. Only after evaluation, approval and prototyping are complete will we receive a purchase order from a customer for volume shipments. This process generally takes from 9 to 12 months, and may last longer. Additionally, this cycle may be as long as 18 to 24 months for certain VoIP products. Given this lengthy sales cycle, it is difficult to accurately predict when sales to a particular customer will occur. In addition, we may experience unexpected delays in orders from customers, which may prevent us from realizing forecasted sales for a particular period and in turn adversely impact our stock price. Our products are typically sold to equipment manufacturers, who incorporate our products in the products that they in turn sell to consumers or to network service providers. As a result, any delay by our customers, or by our customers' customers, in the manufacture or distribution of their products will result in a delay in obtaining orders for our products, which could cause our business and results to suffer. Other broadband technologies may compete effectively with DSL services or other services addressed by our products, and a slowdown in deployment of ADSL services, the lack of significant growth in non-DSL markets that we are targeting and our lack of success in penetrating such markets would adversely affect our business and operating results. Our revenues are heavily dependent on the demand for DSL services. DSL services are competing with several different broadband data transmission technologies, including cable modems, satellite and other wireless technologies. Competition from other broadband access technologies, such as broadband over power lines, is expected in the future. In Japan, which has historically been the principal source of our revenues, ADSL subscription rates are expected to continue to decline due to competition from other broadband access technologies. While part of our strategy is to diversify our product markets beyond DSL into FTTP and VoIP, we have experienced difficulties in penetrating those markets. If any technology that is competing with the technologies that we offer is more reliable, faster and/or less expensive or has any other advantages over the technologies for which we have products, then the demand for our products may decrease. The lack of significant growth in those markets we are targeting in general and the lack of success of our products in particular would also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our products are components of other equipment, if broadband equipment manufacturers do not incorporate our products in their equipment, or if the equipment incorporating our products are not successful, we may not be able to generate sales of our products in volume quantities. Our products are not sold directly to the end-user; they are components of other products. As a result, we rely upon equipment manufacturers to design our products into their equipment. We further rely on the successful manufacturing and deployment of the equipment, which we cannot control. Our customers are typically not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if their own products are not commercially successful or for any other reason. If equipment that incorporates our products is not accepted in the marketplace, our revenues will be materially impaired. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and any significant order cancellations or deferrals could adversely affect our business. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders that customers cannot generally cancel or defer on short notice. Increasingly, customers have been requesting to cancel or postpone orders on short notice and at times, we have accommodated such requests. Any significant cancellations or deferrals in the future could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, cancellations or deferrals of product orders, the return of previously sold products or the overproduction of products due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could cause us to hold excess or obsolete inventory, which could reduce our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Furthermore, we generally 18 recognize revenues upon shipment of products to a customer. If a customer refuses to accept shipped products, we could incur significant charges against our revenues. We derive a substantial amount of our revenues from international sources, and difficulties associated with international operations could harm our business. A substantial portion of our revenues has been derived from customers located outside of the United States. Customers located in Asia accounted for 70%, 74% and 86% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Customers located in Europe accounted for 17%, 7% and 1% of our net revenues for years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We may be unable to successfully overcome the difficulties associated with international operations. These difficulties include: exposure to different legal standards, particularly with respect to intellectual property; natural disasters and public health emergencies; nationalization of business and blocking of cash flows; trade and travel restrictions; the imposition of governmental controls and restrictions; burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, such as environmental directive and regulations governing the content of semiconductor products; import and export license requirements and restrictions of the United States and each other country in which we operate; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; foreign technical standards; changes in taxation and tariffs; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; foreign currency exchange rates; political, social and economic instability; difficulties in collecting receivables from foreign entities or delayed revenue recognition; and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the factors described above may have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales. Because sales of our products are denominated exclusively in United States dollars, increases in the value of the United States dollar relative to a particular foreign currency could make our products more expensive to customers in that country, leading to a reduction in sales and profitability. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. We are spending an increased amount of management time and internal and external resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the 19 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules. In particular, our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving Centillium have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Although our management determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal control in the future. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal control as ineffective. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We may need to raise additional capital which might not be available or which, if available, could be on terms adverse to our common stockholders. We do not expect to generate cash from operations for the foreseeable future, and our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balance declined from $62.4 million as of September 30, 2006 to $55.4 million as of December 31, 2006. If any of the assumptions on which we have based our spending plans proves to be inaccurate, or if we encounter unexpected cash demands due to adverse results in litigation or for other reasons, we may need to raise additional funds. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may also require additional capital for the acquisition of businesses, products and technologies that are complementary to ours. If we issue equity securities, the ownership percentage of our stockholders would be reduced, and the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those existing holders of our common stock. The terms of any new debt or equity financing may also include restrictive covenants that impair our business flexibility. If we are unable to obtain this additional financing, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, which could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition and could require us to sell assets or otherwise restructure our business to remain viable. Additional slowdowns in spending in the telecommunications industry have affected and may continue to negatively affect our business and operating results. The worldwide telecommunications industry, including the broadband communications segment, has experienced pronounced economic downturns that result in delays in the build-out of new infrastructure, lower equipment production volumes, and reductions in component inventory levels. Any such downturn could result in lower than expected demand for our products, excess inventories and intensified pricing pressures. which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations generally, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Specifically, during the most recent downturn in the telecommunications industry, we experienced: reduced demand for our products; increased price competition for our products; 20 increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; and higher research and development and general and administrative costs, as a percentage of revenues. Recent geopolitical and social turmoil in many parts of the world, including actual incidents and potential future acts of terrorism and war, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. These geopolitical and social conditions, together with the resulting economic uncertainties, make it extremely difficult for us, our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This reduced predictability challenges our ability to operate profitably or to increase revenues. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategies to create sustainable business models and efficient operations, and to effectively manage outsourced relationships for services such as contract manufacturing and information technology. If the current uncertain economic conditions continue or deteriorate, there could be additional material adverse impact on our financial position, revenues, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be unable to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, which could seriously harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense in the semiconductor industry. We do not have employment agreements with these executives, or any other key employees, that govern the length of their service. We have had, and may continue to have, particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor operating performance. The loss of the services of certain key senior management or technical personnel, or our inability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future consolidation in the telecommunications and telecommunications equipment industry may increase competition that could harm our business. The markets in which we compete are characterized by increasing consolidation both within the telecommunications equipment sector and by companies combining or acquiring data communications assets and assets for delivering voice-related services. We cannot predict how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or customers. We may not be able to compete successfully in an increasingly consolidated industry. Increased competition and consolidation in our industry may require that we reduce the prices of our products or result in a loss of market share, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we are now, and may in the future be, dependent on certain strategic relationships with third parties in our industry, any additional consolidation involving these parties could reduce the demand for our products and otherwise harm our business prospects. If we deliver products with defects, our credibility will be harmed, and the sales and market acceptance of our products will decrease. Our products are complex and have contained errors, defects and bugs when introduced and revised. In the future we may experience further errors, defects and bugs. If we deliver products with errors, defects or bugs or products that have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers. Further, if our products contain errors, defects and bugs, then we may be required to expend significant capital and resources to alleviate such problems and may have our sales to customers interrupted or delayed. If any of these problems are not found until we have commenced commercial production, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product repair or replacement costs. Defects could also lead to potential liability as a result of product liability lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify some of our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our products. A successful product liability claim could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, and may divert our technical and other resources from other development efforts. 21 We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration and that may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition will require us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs, and we have designed some of our products to be manufactured in .35 micron, .25 micron, .18 micron and .13 micron geometry processes. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and the technologies used in our principal products, and if we do not enforce and protect our intellectual property, our business will be harmed. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. However, these measures afford only limited protection. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights may adversely affect us. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use trade secrets or other information that we regard as proprietary. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in these countries. There is a risk that our efforts to protect proprietary rights may not be adequate. For example, our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our patents or our other intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property or if the laws of a foreign jurisdiction do not effectively permit such protection, it would be easier for our competitors to sell competing products. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been volatile. Since January 1, 2002 our common stock has traded at prices as low as $1.08 and as high as $14.58 per share. The price of our common stock will likely continue to fluctuate significantly in response to the following factors, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in financial estimates of our revenues and operating results by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of integrated circuit companies; announcements by us, our competitors or others in related market segments of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 22 loss or decrease in sales to a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; loss or reduction in manufacturing capacity from one or more of our key suppliers; additions or departures of key personnel; future sales of our common stock; inconsistent or low levels of trading volume of our common stock; commencement of or involvement in litigation; adverse results in legal proceedings; announcements by us or our competitors of key design wins and product introductions; a decrease in the average selling price of our products; ability to achieve cost reductions; and fluctuations in the timing and amount of customer requests for product shipments. Class action litigation due to stock price volatility or other factors could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. Companies such as ours in the semiconductor industry and other technology industries are particularly vulnerable to this kind of litigation due to the high volatility of their stock prices. We may in the future be the target of securities litigation. Any securities litigation could result in substantial costs and could divert the attention and resources of our management. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 