ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks described below may not be the only ones relating to our company. Additional risks that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our business, financial condition, and future prospects and the trading price of our common stock could be harmed as a result of any of these risks. Investors should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, and our other filings from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Risks Relating to our Product Commercialization Pursuits If we fail to achieve and sustain commercial success for PROVENGE, our business will suffer, our future prospects may be harmed and our stock price would likely decline. Prior to the launch of PROVENGE in May 2010, we had never sold or marketed a pharmaceutical product. Unless we can successfully commercialize another product candidate or acquire the right to market other approved products, we will continue to rely on PROVENGE to generate substantially all of our revenue and fund our operations from product sales. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues for PROVENGE will depend on, and may be limited by, a number of factors, including the following: • acceptance of and ongoing satisfaction with PROVENGE as the first in a new class of therapy by the medical community, patients receiving therapy and third-party payers in the United States, and eventually in foreign markets if we receive marketing approvals abroad; • our ability to develop and expand market share, both in the United States and potentially in the rest of the world if we receive marketing approvals outside of the United States, in the midst of numerous competing products for late stage prostate cancer, many of which are in late stage clinical development; • whether data from clinical trials for additional indications are positive and whether such data, if positive, will be sufficient to achieve approval from the FDA and its foreign counterparts to market and sell PROVENGE for such additional indications; • adequate coverage or reimbursement for PROVENGE by government healthcare programs and third-party payors, including private health coverage insurers and health maintenance organizations; and • the ability of patients to afford any required co-payments for PROVENGE. 15 Table of Contents If for any reason we become unable to continue selling or manufacturing PROVENGE, our business would be seriously harmed and could fail. If PROVENGE were to become the subject of problems related to its efficacy, safety, or otherwise, our revenues from PROVENGE could decrease. PROVENGE, in addition to any other of our drug candidates that may be approved by the FDA, will be subject to continual review by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that newly discovered safety issues will not arise. With the use of any newly marketed drug by a wider patient population, serious adverse events may occur from time to time that initially do not appear to relate to the drug itself. Any safety issues could cause us to suspend or cease marketing of our approved products, cause us to modify how we market our approved products, subject us to substantial liabilities, and adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. In the event of a withdrawal of PROVENGE from the market, our revenues would decline significantly and our business would be seriously harmed and could fail. Adoption of PROVENGE for the treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer may be slow or limited for a variety of reasons including competing therapies and perceived difficulties in the treatment process or delays in obtaining reimbursement. If PROVENGE is not successful in broad acceptance as a treatment option for advanced prostate cancer, our business would be harmed. The rate of adoption of PROVENGE for advanced prostate cancer and the ultimate market size will be dependent on several factors, including the education of treating physicians on the patient treatment process with PROVENGE and immunotherapies generally. As a first in class therapy, PROVENGE utilizes a unique treatment approach, which can have associated challenges in practice for treating physicians. A significant portion of the prospective patient base for treatment with PROVENGE may be under the care of urologists who may be less experienced with infusion treatments than oncologists. Acceptance by urologists of PROVENGE as a treatment option may be measurably slower than adoption by oncologists of PROVENGE as a therapy and may require more educational effort by us. In addition, the tight manufacturing and infusion timelines required for treatment with PROVENGE require educating physicians to adjust practice mechanics, which may result in delay in market adoption of PROVENGE as a preferred therapy. PROVENGE is presently approved for the treatment of metastatic asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer in the United States. Earlier diagnosis of metastatic prostate cancer will be increasingly important, and screening, diagnostic and treatment practices can vary significantly by geographic region. To achieve global success for PROVENGE as a treatment, we will need to obtain approvals by foreign regulatory authorities. Data from our completed clinical trials of PROVENGE may not be sufficient to support approval for commercialization by regulatory agencies governing the sale of drugs outside of the United States. This could require us to spend substantial sums to develop sufficient clinical data for licensure by foreign authorities. Submissions for approval by foreign regulatory authorities may not result in marketing approval by these authorities for the requested indication. In addition, certain countries require pricing to be established before reimbursement for the specific indication may be obtained. We may not receive or maintain marketing approvals at favorable pricing levels or at all, which could harm our ability to market PROVENGE globally. Prostate cancer is common in many regions where the healthcare support systems are limited and reimbursement for PROVENGE may be limited or unavailable, which will likely limit or slow adoption in these regions. If we are unable to successfully achieve the full global market potential of PROVENGE due to diagnosis practices or regulatory hurdles, our future prospects would be harmed and our stock price could decline. Products we may potentially commercialize and market may be subject to promotional limitations. The FDA has the authority to impose significant restrictions on an approved product through the product label and allowed advertising, promotional and distribution activities. The FDA also may require us to undertake post-marketing clinical trials. If the results of such post-marketing studies are not satisfactory, the FDA may withdraw marketing authorization or may condition continued marketing on commitments from us that may be expensive and/or time consuming to fulfill. Even if we receive FDA and other regulatory approvals, if we or others identify adverse side effects after any of our products are on the market, or if manufacturing problems 16 Table of Contents occur, regulatory approval may be suspended or withdrawn and reformulation of our products, additional clinical trials, changes in labeling of our products and additional marketing applications may be required, any of which could harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. Risks Relating to Manufacturing Activities We have rapidly expanded our operations to support commercial launch of PROVENGE, and we may encounter unexpected costs or difficulties. Since 2010, we have increased investment in commercial infrastructure. We will need to effectively manage our expanded operations and facilities to successfully grow sales of PROVENGE and pursue development of our other product candidates. We must effectively manage our supply chain, third-party vendors and distribution network, all of which requires strict planning to meet production timelines for PROVENGE. If we fail to manage the growth in our systems and personnel appropriately and successfully to achieve our commercialization plans for PROVENGE our revenues could suffer and our business could be harmed. We and our contract manufacturers are subject to significant regulation with respect to manufacturing of our products. All of those involved in the preparation of a therapeutic drug for clinical trials or commercial sale, including our existing (and any future) supply contract manufacturers and clinical trial investigators, are subject to extensive regulation. Components of a finished therapeutic product approved for commercial sale or used in late-stage clinical trials must be manufactured in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices, or equivalent cGMP regulations developed by authorities in other countries. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of quality systems to control and assure the quality of investigational products and products approved for sale. Our facilities and quality systems and the facilities and quality systems of some or all of our third-party contractors must be inspected and audited routinely for compliance with applicable United States and other country regulations. If any such inspection or audit identifies a failure to comply with applicable regulations or if a violation of our product specifications or applicable regulation occurs independent of such an inspection or audit, we, the FDA, or governmental authorities in other countries may require remedial measures that may be costly and/or time consuming for us or a third-party to implement and that may include the temporary or permanent suspension or change of a clinical trial or commercial sales, recalls, market withdrawals, seizures or the temporary or permanent closure of a facility. Any such remedial measures imposed upon us or third parties with whom we contract could materially harm our business. Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We currently manufacture PROVENGE in the United States and plan to manufacture any other product candidates ourselves. We have contracted with a third-party manufacturer in order to commence clinical trials in the European Union, and we are presently reliant on the ability of the third-party to adequately support our initial clinical trials in the E.U. Our ability to adequately and in a timely manner manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be impacted by: • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier; • the ongoing capacity of our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers; • the performance of our information technology systems; • compliance with regulatory requirements; • inclement weather and natural disasters; 17 Table of Contents • changes in forecasts of future demand for product components; • patient access to leukapheresis, and other logistical support requirements; • potential facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses; • updating of manufacturing specifications; and • product quality success rates and yields. If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments or supply constraints. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may have to notify the FDA, we may lose patients, and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics, all of which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or other country regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other country regulatory authorities. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, and supply constraints for our products. We rely on complex IT systems for various critical purposes, including timely delivery of product and maintaining patient confidentiality. We have developed a comprehensive, integrated IT system for the intake of physician orders for PROVENGE, to track product delivery, and to store patient-related data we obtain for purposes of manufacturing PROVENGE. We rely on this system to maintain the chain of identity for each patient-specific dose of PROVENGE, and to ensure timely delivery of product prior to expiration. PROVENGE has a limited usable life of approximately 18 hours from the completion of the manufacturing process to patient infusion and accordingly maintaining accurate scheduling logistics is critical. In addition, this IT system stores and protects the privacy of the required patient information for the manufacture of PROVENGE. If our systems were to fail or be disrupted for an extended period of time we could lose product sales and our revenue and reputation would suffer. In the event our systems were to be breached by an unauthorized third-party, they could potentially access confidential patient information we obtain in manufacturing PROVENGE, which could cause us to suffer reputational damage and loss of customer confidence. Any one of these events could cause our business to be materially harmed and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. Risks Relating to Our Financial Position and Operations We have a history of operating losses. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $1.56 billion and our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $337.8 million. We have incurred net losses as a result of research and development expenses, clinical trial expenses, contract manufacturing and facility expenses, costs associated with the commercial launch of PROVENGE and general and administrative expenses in support of our operations and research efforts. There can be no assurance that available cash and cash generated through current operations will be sufficient to continue to conduct our operations and expand according to our business plans. The majority of our resources continue to be used in support of the commercialization of PROVENGE, including outside the 18 Table of Contents United States. Even if we are able to successfully realize our commercialization goals for PROVENGE, because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with commercialization of a biologic, we may still require additional funding. And in any event, we are unable to predict when we will become profitable, if at all. Even if we do produce revenues and achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase profitability. Forecasting sales of PROVENGE may continue to be difficult. If our revenue projections are inaccurate and our business forecasting and planning decisions are not reflected in our actual results, our business may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our original forecasting model for 2011 revenue for PROVENGE did not adequately take into account factors that have led to slower than anticipated physician adoption of PROVENGE. These factors include cautionary prescribing behavior due to lack of reimbursement history for the product, difficulty in identifying appropriate patients for treatment with PROVENGE, the cost of the product, which is purchased by the physician on a buy and bill basis, and incurred over a short time period, and other aspects of physician education due to the novelty of the treatment process. The extent to which any of these or other factors individually or in the aggregate may impact future sales of PROVENGE is uncertain and difficult to predict. Our management must make forecasting decisions regarding future revenue in the course of business planning despite this uncertainty, and actual results of operations may deviate materially from projected results. This may lead to inefficiencies and increased difficulties in operational planning. Our general and administrative expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. If our revenues from PROVENGE sales are lower than we anticipate, we will incur costs in the short term that will result in losses that are unavoidable. A shortfall in our revenue has a direct impact on our cash flow and on our business generally. In addition, as reflected in our recent stock price, fluctuations in our quarterly results can adversely and significantly affect the market price of our common stock. We may require additional funding, and our future access to capital is uncertain. It is expensive to develop and commercialize cancer immunotherapy and small molecule product candidates. We plan to continue to simultaneously conduct clinical trials and pre-clinical research for a number of product candidates while pursuing commercial acceptance and our marketing goals for PROVENGE. Our product development efforts may not lead to commercial products, either because our product candidates fail to be found safe or effective in clinical trials or because we lack the necessary financial or other resources or relationships to pursue our programs through commercialization. Even if commercialized, a product may not achieve revenues that exceed the costs of producing and selling it. Our capital and future cash flow may not be sufficient to support the expenses of our operations and we may need to raise additional capital depending on a number of factors, including but not limited to the following: • sales of PROVENGE in the United States; • the rate of progress and cost of our research and development and clinical trial activities; • the need to establish additional manufacturing and distribution capability for the potential foreign marketing of PROVENGE; and • the need to remain competitive in the event of the introduction into the marketplace of competing products and other adverse market developments. We may not be able to obtain additional financing if and when needed. If we are unable to raise additional funds on terms we find acceptable, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate some of our clinical trials and our development programs. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result. In addition, the expectation of future dilution as a result of our offering of securities convertible into equity securities may cause our stock price to decline. Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. Our existing indebtedness includes an aggregate of $27.7 million in outstanding Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”) which bear interest at 4.75% and an aggregate of $620 million in 19 Table of Contents outstanding Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “2016 Notes”) which bear interest at 2.875%. Our indebtedness and annual debt service requirements may adversely impact our business, operations and financial condition in the future. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to raise additional funds by borrowing or engaging in equity sales in order to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development and other general corporate requirements; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to service payments on our debt; or • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate or to pursue certain strategic opportunities that may present themselves. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the 2016 Notes, could have a material effect on our net loss, net working capital or other financial results. Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification Section 470-20, Debt with Conversion and other Options (“ASC 470-20”), an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the 2016 Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for our 2016 Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the additional paid-in capital section of stockholders’ equity on our consolidated balance sheets and the value of the equity component is treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the notes. As a result, we are required to record non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the 2016 Notes to their face amount over the term of the 2016 Notes. We report higher interest expense in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the 2016 Notes. Our stockholders may be diluted by the conversion of our outstanding convertible notes. The holders of the 2014 Notes may choose at any time to convert their notes into common stock prior to maturity in June 2014. The holders of the 2016 Notes may choose at any time to convert their notes prior to maturing in January 2016, and upon conversion we may issue cash, stock, or a combination thereof at our option. Should a holder of the 2016 Notes exercise their conversion option during the next twelve month period, it is our intention to satisfy the conversion with shares of our common stock. The 2014 Notes are convertible into our common stock, initially at the conversion price of $10.28 per share, equal to a conversion rate of approximately 97.2644 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the 2014 Notes. The 2016 Notes are convertible into our common stock initially at the conversion rate of 19.5160 shares per $1,000 principal amount, or approximately $51.24 per share, subject to adjustment. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, and therefore the dilution of existing common stockholders, could increase under certain circumstances described in the indentures under which the 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes were issued. The conversion of the 2014 Notes and potentially the 2016 Notes will result in the issuance of additional shares of common stock, diluting existing common stockholders. We may elect to issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into our common stock, which could result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. Future sales of our common stock will depend primarily on the market price of our common stock, the terms we may receive upon the sale of debt or convertible securities, the interest in our company by institutional investors and our cash needs. In addition, we may register additional equity, debt or other convertible securities with the SEC for sale in the future. Each of our issuances of common stock or securities convertible into common stock to investors under a registration statement or otherwise will proportionately decrease our existing stockholders’ percentage ownership of our total outstanding equity interests and may reduce our stock price. 20 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and future prospects could suffer as a result of carrying out strategic alternatives in the future. We may decide it is in our best interests to engage in a strategic transaction that could dilute our existing stockholders or cause us to incur contingent liabilities, commitments, or significant expense. In the course of pursuing strategic alternatives, we may evaluate potential acquisitions or investments in related businesses, products or technologies. Future acquisitions or investments could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • the assumption of additional indebtedness or contingent liabilities; • risks and uncertainties associated with the other party to such a transaction, including but not limited to the prospects of that party and their existing products or product candidates and regulatory approvals; • the loss of key personnel and business relationships; • difficulties associated with assimilating and integrating new personnel, intellectual property and operations of an acquired company; • our inability to generate revenue from acquired technology and/or products sufficient to meet our objectives in undertaking the acquisition or even to offset the associated acquisition and maintenance costs; and • the distraction of our management from our existing product programs and initiatives in pursuing such a strategic merger or acquisition. In connection with an acquisition, we must estimate the value of the transaction by making certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of a transaction. We may incur as part of a transaction substantial charges for closure costs associated with the elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired in-process research and development charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods. Any strategic transaction we may pursue may not result in the benefits we initially anticipate, and/or result in costs that end up outweighing the benefits, and may adversely impact our financial condition and business prospects. Risks from Competitive Factors Delays to our expansion outside of the United States may result in increased competitive challenges. In September 2011, we announced that, in conjunction with a company restructuring to reduce operating costs in the near term due to a lack of forecasted sales growth in line with our original projections, we were revising our commercialization strategy for PROVENGE outside of the United States. The announced changes included seeking a longer-term contract manufacturing partnership for production of PROVENGE in Europe, rather than building our own immunotherapy manufacturing facility, as well as revisiting our European clinical trial plan. Although we believe the revisions to our commercialization strategy outside of the United States will have long-term benefits for the Company from our near-term cash conservation and extended business planning strategy for the EU, delays to the commercialization of PROVENGE in the European Union and throughout the rest of the world could result in increased competitive challenges in the future if competing products and therapies gain market acceptance in the interim. These competitive challenges could impede adoption of PROVENGE as a preferred therapy, which could adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. Our competitors may develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective, safer or reach the market sooner, which may diminish or eliminate the commercial success of any products we may commercialize. Competition in the cancer therapeutics field is intense and is accentuated by the rapid pace of advancements in product development. In addition, we compete with other clinical-stage companies and institutions for clinical trial participants, which could reduce our ability to recruit participants for our clinical trials. Delay in recruiting 21 Table of Contents clinical trial participants could adversely affect our ability to bring a product to market prior to our competitors. Further, research and discoveries by others may result in breakthroughs that render potential products obsolete before they generate revenue. Products such as chemotherapeutics, androgen metabolism or androgen receptor antagonists, endothelin A receptor antagonists, antisense compounds, angiogenesis inhibitors and gene therapies for cancer are also under development by a number of companies and could potentially compete with PROVENGE and our other product candidates. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes may in the future become active in cancer research, which may be in direct competition with us. Some of our competitors in the cancer therapeutics field have substantially greater research and development capabilities and manufacturing, marketing, financial and managerial resources than we do. Acquisitions of competing companies by large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies could enhance our competitors’ resources. In addition, our competitors may obtain patent protection or FDA approval and commercialize products more rapidly than we do, which may impact future sales of our products. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based, among other things, on product efficacy, price, safety, reliability, availability, patent protection, and sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Our profitability and financial position will suffer if our products receive regulatory approval, but cannot compete effectively in the marketplace. We could face competition for PROVENGE or other approved products from biosimilar products that could impact our profitability. We may face competition in Europe from biosimilar products, and we expect we may face competition from biosimilars in the future in the United States as well. To the extent that governments adopt more permissive approval frameworks and competitors are able to obtain broader marketing approval for biosimilars, our products will become subject to increased competition. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights could trigger such competition, and we could face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. We cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products could impact our future potential sale of PROVENGE in the E.U., where biosimilars to other innovator biological products are already available. Our inability to compete effectively in foreign territories would reduce global sales potential, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On March 23, 2010, PPACA became law and authorized FDA approval of biosimilar products. PPACA established a period of 12 years of data exclusivity for reference products and outlined statutory criteria for science-based biosimilar approval standards. Under this framework, data exclusivity protects the data in the innovator’s regulatory application by prohibiting, for a period of 12 years, others from gaining FDA approval based in part on reliance or reference to the innovator’s data. FDA has not yet announced implementation of the biosimilars regulatory approval pathway; however, PPACA does not require the agency to do so before it may approve biosimilars. The new law does not change the duration of patents granted on biologic products. Because of this pathway for the approval of biosimilars in the U. S., we may in the future face greater competition from biosimilar products and downward pressure on our product prices, sales and revenues, subject to our ability to enforce our patents. Failure to retain key personnel could impede our ability to develop our products and to obtain new collaborations or other sources of funding. We depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts of our key employees, including senior management and senior scientific, clinical, regulatory, operational and other personnel. The development of new therapeutic products requires expertise from a number of different disciplines, some of which are not widely available. We depend upon our scientific staff to discover new product candidates and to develop and conduct pre-clinical studies of those new potential products. Our clinical and regulatory staff is responsible for the design and execution of clinical trials in accordance with FDA requirements and for the advancement of our product candidates toward FDA approval and submission of data supporting approval. The quality and reputation of our scientific, clinical and regulatory staff, especially the senior staff, and their success in performing their 22 Table of Contents responsibilities, may directly influence the success of our product development programs. As we pursue successful commercialization of PROVENGE, our sales and marketing, and operations executive management staff takes on increasing significance and influence upon our organizational success. In addition, our executive officers are involved in a broad range of critical activities, including providing strategic and operational guidance. The loss of these individuals, or our inability to retain or recruit other key management and scientific, clinical, regulatory, medical, operational and other personnel, may delay or prevent us from achieving our business objectives. We face intense competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Risks Relating to Collaboration Arrangements and Reliance on Third Parties We must rely at present on relationships with third-party suppliers to supply necessary components used in our products, which relationships are not easy to replace. We rely upon contract manufacturers for components used in the manufacture and distribution of PROVENGE. Problems with any of our or our suppliers’ facilities or processes could result in failure to produce or a delay in production of adequate supplies of the antigen or other components we use in the manufacture of PROVENGE. This could delay or reduce commercial sales and materially harm our business. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our suppliers’ facilities could result in cancellation of orders, loss of components in the process of being manufactured or a shortfall in availability of a necessary component. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials, equipment malfunctions or failures, damage to a facility due to natural disasters, changes in FDA or equivalent other country authorities’ regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to manufacturing processes, or action by us to implement process changes or other similar factors. Because manufacturing processes are complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA or equivalent non-United States regulatory approval process, alternative qualified supply may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our suppliers’ manufacturing and supply of components could delay our clinical trials, increase our costs, damage our reputation and, for PROVENGE, cause us to lose revenue or market share if we are unable to timely meet market demands. We are dependent on our leukapheresis network for raw materials required for the manufacture of PROVENGE. The manufacture of each patient-specific dose of PROVENGE first requires that we obtain immune cells from the relevant patient, which is done through a leukapheresis process at a cell collection center with which we have contracted. We have entered into agreements with third-party cell collection and blood centers, including the American Red Cross, to perform this process for us. However there are a finite number of centers with the requisite skill, training, staffing and equipment to perform the leukapheresis procedure for PROVENGE patients and we cannot be certain that as our manufacturing capacity expands the leukapheresis network presently available to us will be sufficient to service demand at full capacity. We anticipate that we will need to expand the leukapheresis network available to us prospectively through additional partnerships or other endeavors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure sufficient appropriate leukapheresis capacity to manufacture PROVENGE when and as desired. If we are unable to expand our access to these services as necessary, our revenues will suffer and our business would be harmed. We rely on single source vendors for some key components for PROVENGE and our active immunotherapy product candidates, which could impair our ability to manufacture and supply our products. We currently depend on single source vendors for components used in PROVENGE and other active immunotherapy candidates. We have a long-term contract with Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies, formerly Diosynth RTP, Inc., (“Fujifilm”) for the production of the antigen used in the manufacturing of PROVENGE. Any production shortfall on the part of Fujifilm that impairs the supply of the antigen to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of antigen, there could be a substantial delay in successfully developing a second source supplier. In addition, we rely on single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain other raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of our products. Certain of these raw 23 Table of Contents materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in the drug application with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. An inability to continue to source product from any of these suppliers, which could be due to regulatory actions or requirements affecting the supplier, adverse financial or other strategic developments experienced by a supplier, labor disputes or shortages, unexpected demands or quality issues, could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for PROVENGE or other products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially or our ability to conduct clinical trials, either of which could significantly harm our business. If we fail to enter into any needed collaboration agreements for our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize them effectively or at all. Product collaborations are complex and any potential discussions may not result in a definitive agreement for many reasons. For example, whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration would depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator’s resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration, and the proposed collaborator’s evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the potential market for the product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering the product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. If we were to determine that a collaboration for a particular product is necessary to commercialize it and we were unable to enter into such a collaboration on acceptable terms, we might elect to delay or scale back the commercialization of a product in order to preserve our financial resources or to allow us adequate time to develop the required physical resources and systems and expertise ourselves. If we enter into a collaboration agreement we consider acceptable, the collaboration may not proceed as quickly, smoothly or successfully as we plan. The risks in a collaboration agreement generally include: • the collaborator may not apply the expected financial resources or required expertise in developing the physical resources and systems necessary to successfully commercialize a product; • the collaborator may not invest in the development of a sales and marketing force and the related infrastructure at levels that ensure that sales of a product reach their full potential; • disputes may arise between us and a collaborator that delay the commercialization of the product or adversely affect its sales or profitability; or • the collaborator may independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that could compete with the product. With respect to a collaboration for any of our products or product candidates, we are dependent on the success of our collaborators in performing their respective responsibilities and the continued cooperation of our collaborators. Our collaborators may not cooperate with us to perform their obligations under our agreements with them. We cannot control the amount and timing of our collaborators’ resources that will be devoted to activities related to our collaboration agreements with them. Our collaborators may choose to pursue existing or alternative technologies in preference to those being developed in collaboration with us. A collaborator may have the right to terminate the collaboration at its discretion. Any termination may require us to seek a new collaborator, which we may not be able to do on a timely basis, if at all, or require us to delay or scale back the commercialization efforts. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the commercialization of product candidates we may commercialize and materially harm our business and stock price by slowing the pace of growth of such sales, by reducing the profitability of the product or by adversely affecting the reputation of the product in the market. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Clinical Trial and Product Development Initiatives Our clinical and pre-clinical candidates in the pipeline for other potential cancer immunotherapies and small molecule products may never reach the commercial market for a number of reasons. To sustain our business, we focus substantial resources on the search for new pharmaceutical products. These activities include engaging in discovery research and product development, conducting pre-clinical and clinical studies, and seeking regulatory approval in the United States for product candidates and in other countries for PROVENGE and other products we may market in the future. Our long-term success depends on the discovery and development of new drugs that we can commercialize. Our cancer immunotherapy and small molecule program pipeline candidates are still at a relatively early stage in the development process. There can be no assurance that these product candidates or any other potential therapies we may pursue will become a marketed drug. In addition, we may find that certain products cannot be manufactured on a commercial scale and, therefore, they may not be economical to produce, or may be precluded from commercialization by proprietary rights of third parties. A significant portion of the research that we are conducting involves new and unproven technologies. Research programs to identify disease targets and product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not we ultimately identify any candidates. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield candidates for clinical development for a number of reasons, including difficulties in formulation which cannot be overcome, timing and competitive concerns. An Investigative New Drug (“IND”) application must become effective before human clinical trials may commence. The IND application is automatically effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions about the product’s safety profile or the design of the trials as described in the application. In the latter case, any outstanding concerns must be resolved with the FDA before clinical trials can proceed. Thus, the submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials in any given case. After authorization is received, the FDA retains the authority to place the IND, and clinical trials under that IND, on clinical hold. If we are unable to commence clinical trials or clinical trials are delayed indefinitely, we would be unable to develop additional product candidates and our business could be materially harmed. Clinical trials, both in the United States and in other countries, can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial because of safety concerns of regulators relating to our product candidates or similar product candidates of our competitors or failure to follow regulatory guidelines; • delays or failures in obtaining clinical materials and manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in trials; • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective study sites; • delays or failures in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocol from an institutional review board (“IRB”) or ethics committee (“EC”) to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site; • delays in recruiting patients to participate in a clinical trial; • failure of our clinical trials and clinical investigators to be in compliance with the FDA’s Good Clinical Practices or equivalent other country regulations and requirements; • unforeseen safety issues, including negative results from ongoing pre-clinical studies; • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; • unexpected adverse events occurring during the clinical trial; • failure by third-party clinical trial managers to comply with regulations concerning protection of patient health data; • difficulty monitoring multiple study sites; 25 Table of Contents • failure of our third-party clinical trial managers to satisfy their contractual duties, comply with regulations or meet expected deadlines; and • determination by regulators that the clinical design of the trials is not adequate. The nature and efforts required to complete a prospective research and development project are typically indeterminable at very early stages when research is primarily conceptual and may have multiple applications. Once a focus towards developing a specific product candidate has been developed, we obtain more visibility into the efforts that may be required to reach conclusion of the development phase. However, there are inherent risks and uncertainties in developing novel biologics in a rapidly changing industry environment. To obtain approval of a product candidate from the FDA or other country regulatory authorities, we must, among other requirements, submit data supporting safety and efficacy as well as detailed information on the manufacture and composition of the product candidate. In most cases, this entails extensive laboratory tests and pre-clinical and clinical trials. The collection of this data, as well as the preparation of applications for review by the FDA and other regulatory agencies outside the United States are costly in time and effort, and may require significant capital investment. We may encounter significant difficulties or costs in our efforts to obtain FDA approvals or approvals to market products in foreign markets. For example, the FDA or the equivalent in jurisdictions outside the United States may determine that our data is not sufficiently compelling to warrant marketing approval, or may require we engage in additional clinical trials or provide further analysis which may be costly and time consuming. Regardless of the nature of our efforts to complete development of our products and receive marketing approval, we may encounter delays that render our product candidates uncompetitive or otherwise preclude us from marketing products. We may be required to obtain additional funding to complete development of product candidates or in order to commercialize approved products. However such funding may not be available to us on terms we deem acceptable or at all. Our ability to access additional capital is dependent on the success of our business and the perception by the market of our future business prospects. In the event we were unable to obtain necessary funding, we might halt or temporarily delay ongoing development projects. Pre-clinical testing and clinical trials for product candidates must satisfy stringent regulatory requirements or we may be unable to utilize the results. The pre-clinical testing and clinical trials of any product candidates that we develop must comply with regulations by numerous federal, state and local government authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar governmental authorities in other countries. Clinical trials are subject to continuing oversight by governmental regulatory authorities and institutional review boards and must meet the requirements of these authorities in the United States and other countries, including those for informed consent and good clinical practices. We may not be able to comply with these requirements, which could disqualify completed or ongoing clinical trials. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the testing process that could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates, including the following: • safety and efficacy results from human clinical trials may show the product candidate to be less effective or safe than desired or earlier results may not be replicated in later clinical trials; • the results of pre-clinical studies may be inconclusive or they may not be indicative of results that will be obtained in human clinical trials; • after reviewing relevant information, including pre-clinical testing or human clinical trial results, we may abandon or substantially restructure programs that we might previously have believed to be promising; • we, the FDA, an IRB, an EC, or similar regulatory authorities in other countries may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons; and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that interrupt, delay or cause us or the FDA, or equivalent governmental authorities in other countries, to halt clinical trials or cause the FDA or non-United States regulatory authorities to deny approval of the product candidate for any or all target indications. 26 Table of Contents Each phase of clinical testing is highly regulated, and during each phase there is risk that we will encounter serious obstacles or will not achieve our goals, and accordingly we may abandon a product in which we have invested substantial amounts of time and money. In addition, we must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with pre-clinical and clinical data that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for each target indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We cannot state with certainty when or whether any of our products now under development will be approved or launched; or whether any products, once approved and launched, will be commercially successful. The FDA, other non-United States regulatory authorities, or an Advisory Committee may determine our clinical trials data regarding safety or efficacy are insufficient for regulatory approval. Although we obtain guidance from regulatory authorities on certain aspects of our clinical development activities, these discussions are not binding obligations on regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may revise or retract previous guidance or may disqualify a clinical trial in whole or in part from consideration in support of approval of a potential product for commercial sale or otherwise deny approval of that product. Even if we obtain successful clinical safety and efficacy data, we may be required to conduct additional, expensive trials to obtain regulatory approval. FDA, or equivalent other country authorities, may elect to obtain advice from outside experts regarding scientific issues and/or marketing applications under FDA or other country authority review through the FDA’s Advisory Committee process or other country procedures. Views of the Advisory Committee or other experts may differ from those of the FDA, or equivalent other country authority, and may impact our ability to commercialize a product candidate. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for our product candidates may require that we identify and enroll a large number of patients with the disease under investigation. We may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients, or those with required or desired characteristics to achieve diversity in a study, to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is affected by factors including: • design of the trial protocol; • the size of the patient population; • eligibility criteria for the study in question; • perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study; • availability of competing therapies and clinical trials; • efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; • patient referral practices of physicians; • the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and • geographic proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients. Additionally, even if we are able to identify an appropriate patient population for a clinical trial, there can be no assurance that the patients will continue in the clinical trial through completion. If we have difficulty enrolling or maintaining a sufficient number of patients with sufficient diversity to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing or planned clinical trials, either of which would have a negative effect on our business. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of the Pharmaceutical Industry PROVENGE and our other products in development cannot be sold if we do not maintain or gain required regulatory approvals. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and potentially by foreign regulatory authorities, with regulations differing from country to country. In the United States, the FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical testing, clinical trials, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, potency, labeling, storage, record keeping, quality systems, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of therapeutic products. Other applicable non-United States regulatory authorities have equivalent powers. Failure to comply with applicable requirements could result in, among other things, one or more of the following actions: withdrawal of product approval, notices of violation, untitled letters, warning letters, fines and other monetary penalties, unanticipated expenditures, delays in approval or refusal to approve a product candidate; product recall or seizure; interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. We are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we can manufacture, market and sell our products. Obtaining regulatory approval for marketing of a product candidate in one country does not assure we will be able to obtain regulatory approval in other countries. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory process in other countries. Once approved, the FDA and other United States and non-United States regulatory authorities have substantial authority to limit the uses or indications for which a product may be marketed, restrict distribution of the product, require additional testing, change product labeling or mandate withdrawal of our products. The marketing of our approved products will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies, including: the manufacturing, testing, distribution, labeling, packaging, storage, reporting and record-keeping related to the product, advertising, promotion, and adverse event reporting requirements. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects or misuse relating to our products could result in required post-marketing studies, additional regulatory controls or restrictions, or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. In general, the FDA and equivalent other country authorities require labeling, advertising and promotional materials to be truthful and not misleading, and marketed only for the approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities were to challenge our promotional materials or activities, they may bring enforcement action. Our failure to obtain approval, significant delays in the approval process, or our failure to maintain approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from selling a product in that jurisdiction. Any product and its manufacturer will continue to be subject to strict regulations after approval, including but not limited to, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and record-keeping requirements. Any problems with an approved product, including the later exhibition of adverse effects or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market, which could materially harm our business. The process of obtaining approvals in foreign countries is subject to delay and failure for many of the same reasons. Regulatory authorities could also add new regulations or change existing regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products. PROVENGE and our investigational cellular immunotherapies are novel. As a result, regulatory agencies lack experience with them, which may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of PROVENGE outside of the United States and with respect to our active immunotherapy products under development. We are unable to predict when and whether any changes to regulatory policy affecting our business could occur, and such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. If regulatory authorities determine that we have not complied with regulations in the research and development of a product candidate, a new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, they may not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we would not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Failure to comply with foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and failure to obtain marketing approval for product candidates could prevent us from selling our products in foreign markets, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing, testing, product approvals, pricing and reimbursement outside the United States vary greatly from country to country. In addition, the time required to obtain approvals outside the United States may differ significantly from that required to obtain FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on the timeframe we may desire, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and foreign regulatory authorities could require additional testing. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements or obtain required approvals could impair our ability to develop foreign markets for our products and may have a material adverse effect on our business and future prospects. Our product sales depend on adequate coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers. Our sale of PROVENGE is dependent on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. We rely in large part on the reimbursement coverage by federal and state sponsored government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and equivalent programs in other countries. In the event we seek approvals to market PROVENGE in foreign territories, we will need to work with the government-sponsored healthcare systems in Europe and other foreign countries that are the primary payers of healthcare costs in those regions. Governments and private payers may regulate prices, reimbursement levels and/or access to PROVENGE and any other products we may market to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. We cannot predict the availability or level of coverage and reimbursement for PROVENGE or our product candidates and a reduction in coverage and/or reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. The availability and amount of reimbursement for PROVENGE and our product candidates and the manner in which government and private payers may reimburse for our potential products is uncertain. In many of the markets where we may do business in the future, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to direct price controls pursuant to applicable law or regulation and to drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. We expect that many of the patients in the United States who seek treatment with PROVENGE or any other of our products that are approved for marketing will be eligible for Medicare benefits. Other patients may be covered by private health plans. The Medicare program is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), and coverage and reimbursement for products and services under Medicare are determined pursuant to statute, regulations promulgated by CMS, and CMS’s subregulatory coverage and reimbursement determinations. It is difficult to predict how CMS may apply those regulations and policy determinations to newly approved products, especially novel products such as ours, and those regulations and interpretive determinations are subject to change. Moreover, the procedures and criteria by which CMS makes coverage and reimbursement determinations and the reimbursement amounts established by statute are subject to change, particularly because of budgetary pressures facing the Medicare program. For example, Medicare reimbursement for drugs and biologicals administered by physicians, including PROVENGE, is set at average sales price (“ASP”) plus six percent by statute. ASP is a price calculated by the manufacturer and reported to CMS on a quarterly basis. In addition, the statute establishes the payment rate for new drugs and biologicals administered in hospital outpatient departments that are granted “pass-through status” at the rate applicable in physicians’ offices (i.e., ASP plus six percent) for two to three years after FDA approval. PROVENGE was granted pass-through status effective October 1, 2010, allowing reimbursement in hospital outpatient departments at ASP plus six percent, and this status is expected to expire on December 31, 2012. In the past year, Congress has considered amending the statute to reduce these payment rates, and similar legislation could be enacted in the future. Furthermore, the payment rate for PROVENGE in the hospital setting after December 31, 2012 is not known. CMS establishes the payment rates for drugs and biologicals that do not have pass-through status by regulation. For 2012, these drugs are reimbursed at ASP plus four percent if they have an average cost per day exceeding $75; drugs with an average cost per day less than $75 are not separately reimbursed. In future years, CMS could change both the payment rate and the average cost threshold, and these changes could adversely affect payment for PROVENGE. 29 Table of Contents PROVENGE also is made available to patients that are eligible for Medicaid benefits. A condition of federal funds being made available to cover our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B is our participation in the Medicaid drug rebate program, established by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-508, and as amended by subsequent legislation, including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively “PPACA”). Under the Medicaid rebate program, we pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for each unit of our drug paid for by those programs. The rebate amount for a drug varies by quarter, and is based on pricing data reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the quarterly average manufacturer price, or AMP, for the drug, and in the case of innovator products such as PROVENGE, the quarterly best price, which is our lowest price in a quarter to any commercial or non-governmental customer. The formula for determining the rebate amount, using those data, is set by law, and for innovator products like PROVENGE is the greater of 23.1% of AMP or the difference between AMP and best price. The rebate amount for innovator products also must be adjusted upward for price increases that outpace inflation. PPACA significantly changed the Medicaid rebate program. Rebates previously were due only on utilization under Medicaid fee-for-service plans, but PPACA expanded our rebate liability to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations, effective upon enactment, March 23, 2010. PPACA also increased the minimum rebate due for innovator drugs such as PROVENGE, from 15.1% of AMP to 23.1% of AMP, effective the first quarter of 2010, and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of AMP. PPACA and subsequent legislation also changed the definition of AMP, effective the fourth quarter of 2010. CMS has issued a proposed rule to implement PPACA’s changes to the Medicaid rebate program, but does not anticipate finalizing this rule until 2013. This rule may have the effect of increasing our rebates or other costs and charges associated with participating in the Medicaid rebate program. We must accurately track and report ASP and average minimum price (“AMP”) data to the relevant authorities or we may face fines or penalties. The calculations for our reported pricing data, including AMP, best price, as well as ASP, are complex and the governing legal requirements may be subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies, and the courts. If we become aware that our reported AMP and best price figures for prior quarters are incorrect or should be changed to reflect late-arriving pricing data, we are obligated to submit the corrected data for a period not to exceed 12 quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due. Such restatements and recalculations serve to increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid rebate program. Any corrections to our pricing data could result in an overage or underage in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Our failure to submit AMP, best price, ASP, and other required data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. In addition, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, we could be liable for civil monetary penalties not to exceed $100,000 per item of false information, in addition to other penalties available the government. As to ASP specifically, if a manufacturer is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, statute provides for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each misrepresentation for each day in which the misrepresentation was applied. In all cases, this conduct also could result in the termination of our Medicaid rebate agreement. In the event that CMS terminates our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for PROVENGE or any other of our products that are approved for marketing. The availability of federal funds under Medicaid and Medicare Part B to pay for PROVENGE and any other products that are approved for marketing also is conditioned on our participation in the Public Health Service 340B drug pricing program. The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. These covered entities include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of poor Medicare beneficiaries, as well as a variety of community health clinics and other recipients of health services grant funding. PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional entity types: certain free standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, rural referral centers and sole community hospitals, each as defined by the Act. The 30 Table of Contents 340B ceiling price for a drug is calculated using a statutory formula that is based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amount for the drug. To the extent PPACA, as discussed above, changes the statutory and regulatory definitions of AMP and the Medicaid rebate amount, these changes will also affect our 340B ceiling price for PROVENGE or any other of our products that are approved for marketing. Any revisions to previously reported Medicaid pricing data also may require revisions to the 340B ceiling prices that were based on those data and could require the issuance of refunds. PPACA is expected to impact the United States pharmaceutical industry substantially, including with regard to how health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Some of the other key PPACA provisions include: • The establishment of an annual, non-deductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologics, beginning 2011. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer will pay a prorated share of the branded prescription drug fee (set at a total of $2.8 billion for 2012 and increasing thereafter) based on the dollar value of its branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law; • An expansion of the eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals beginning April 2010 and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133% of the Federal Poverty Level beginning 2014, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; and • The establishment of a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research. Moreover, a number of state and federal legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at reforming the healthcare system in the United States continue to be proposed, the effect of which, if enacted, could adversely impact our product sales and results of operations. We also make PROVENGE available for purchase by authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule (“FSS”), of the General Services Administration pursuant to an FSS contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”). Currently, Dendreon has entered into an Interim Agreement with the VA, which is a precursor agreement to the FSS contract. Under the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (“VHCA”), we are required to offer deeply discounted FSS contract pricing to four federal agencies — the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense (“DoD”), the Coast Guard and the Public Health Service (“PHS”) (including the Indian Health Service) — for federal funding to be made available for reimbursement of any of our products under the Medicaid program, Medicaid Part B and for our products to be eligible to be purchased by those four federal agencies and certain federal grantees. FSS pricing to those four federal agencies must be equal to or less than the “Federal Ceiling Price,” which is, at a minimum, 24% off the Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price, or “Non-FAMP”, for the prior fiscal year. In addition, if we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the VHCA provides for civil monetary penalties of not to exceed $100,000 per item of false information in addition to other penalties available to the government. Pricing of pharmaceutical products in the European Union is subject to significant governmental influence and scrutiny. In the European Union, governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. The approach taken varies from member state to member state. Some jurisdictions operate positive and/or negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products, as exemplified by the role of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom, which evaluates the data supporting new medicines and passes reimbursement recommendations to the government. All of these factors could adversely impact our ability to successfully commercialize product candidates in these jurisdictions. 31 Table of Contents The pharmaceutical industry is subject to significant regulation and oversight to prevent inducement and fraud pursuant to anti-kickback laws and false claims statutes, any failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial fines or penalties. In the United States, we are also subject to health care fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: • the Federal health care programs Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. This false claims liability may attach in the event that a company is found to have knowingly submitted false AMP, BP, ASP or other pricing data to the government; • federal “sunshine” laws that require transparency regarding financial arrangements with health care providers, such as the reporting and disclosure requirements imposed by PPACA on drug manufacturers regarding any “payment or transfer of value” made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. Moreover, recent health care reform legislation has strengthened these laws. For example, the recently enacted PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes to clarify that a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, PPACA provides that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. In addition, a number of states have laws that require pharmaceutical companies to track and report payments, gifts and other benefits provided to physicians and other health care professionals and entities. Similarly, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which was enacted in 2010 and may be implemented in 2012, will require pharmaceutical companies to report to the federal government certain payments to physicians and teaching hospitals. Other state laws require pharmaceutical companies to adopt and or disclose specific compliance policies to regulate the company’s interactions with healthcare professionals. Moreover, some states, such as Massachusetts, Minnesota, and Vermont, also impose an outright ban on certain gifts to physicians. Violations of some of these laws may result in substantial fines. These laws affect our promotional activities by limiting the kinds of interactions we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers or users of our products. Both the disclosure laws and gift bans impose additional administrative and compliance burdens on us. Although we seek to structure our interactions in compliance with all applicable requirements, these laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how a law will be applied in specific circumstances. If an employee were to offer an inappropriate gift to a customer, we could be subject to a claim under an applicable state law. Similarly if we fail to comply with a reporting requirement, we could be subject to penalties under applicable federal or state laws. We expect there will continue to be federal and state laws and/or regulations, proposed and implemented, that could impact our operations and business. The extent to which future legislation or regulations, if any, relating to health care fraud abuse laws and/or enforcement, may be enacted or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business remains uncertain. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, 32 Table of Contents including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from governmental health care programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. We may be subject to or otherwise affected by laws relating to privacy and security of personal information, including personal health information and our failure to comply could result in liability and reputational damage. There are numerous United States federal and state laws governing the privacy and security of personal health information that we obtain, maintain or have access to in connection with manufacture of our product. Some of the laws that may apply include state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protections laws which impose requirements for the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal information. Numerous other countries have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information as well. Each of these laws may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to penalties or sanctions. Although we are not a covered entity subject to HIPAA, most healthcare providers who prescribe our product and from whom we obtain personal health information are subject to HIPAA. Accordingly, we could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA. We are unable to predict whether our actions could be subject to prosecution in the event of an impermissible disclosure of health information to us. The receipt of personal health information in connection with our clinical trial initiatives is subject to state and federal human subject protection laws. These laws could create liability for us if one of our research collaborators were to use or disclose research subject information without consent and in violation of applicable laws. We use hazardous materials in our business and must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive. Our operations produce hazardous waste products, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials complies with the standards prescribed by state and federal laws and regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such hazardous waste products and store our low level radioactive waste at our facilities in compliance with applicable environmental laws until the materials are no longer considered radioactive. We are also subject to regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), and the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), and to regulation under the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other regulatory statutes, and may in the future be subject to other federal, state or local regulations. OSHA and/or the EPA may promulgate regulations that may affect our research and development programs. We may be required to incur further costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety laws and regulations. In addition, in the event of accidental contamination or injury from these materials, we could be held liable for any damages that result, including remediation, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Risks in Protecting Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or to defend against infringement claims, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. We invent and develop technologies that are the basis for or incorporated in our potential products. We protect our technology through United States and foreign patent filings, trademarks and trade secrets. We have issued patents, and applications for United States and foreign patents in various stages of prosecution. We expect 33 Table of Contents that we will continue to file and prosecute patent applications and that our success depends in part on our ability to establish and defend our proprietary rights in the technologies that are the subject of issued patents and patent applications. The fact that we have filed a patent application or that a patent has issued, however, does not ensure that we will have meaningful protection from competition with regard to the underlying technology or product. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated, declared unenforceable or circumvented or may not cover all applications we may desire. Our pending patent applications as well as those we may file in the future may not result in issued patents. Patents may not provide us with adequate proprietary protection or advantages against competitors with, or who could develop, similar or competing technologies or who could design around our patents. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the pharmaceutical field in which we operate is continually evolving and can be the subject of some uncertainty. The laws providing patent protection may change in a way that would limit protection. We also rely on trade secrets and know-how that we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality agreements. Our policy is to require our officers, employees, consultants, contractors, manufacturers, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific limited circumstances. We also require signed confidentiality agreements from companies that receive our confidential data. For employees, consultants and contractors, we require confidentiality agreements providing that all inventions conceived while rendering services to us shall be assigned to us as our exclusive property. It is possible, however, that these parties may breach those agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. It is also possible that our trade secrets or know-how will otherwise become known to or be independently developed by competitors. We are also subject to the risk of claims, whether meritorious or not, that our products or immunotherapy candidates infringe or misappropriate third-party intellectual property rights. Defending against such claims can be quite expensive even if the claims lack merit. And if we are found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party’s intellectual property, we could be required to seek a license or discontinue our products or cease using certain technologies or delay commercialization of the affected product or products, and we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could materially harm our business. We may be subject to litigation with respect to the ownership and use of intellectual property that will be costly to defend or pursue and uncertain in its outcome. Our business may bring us into conflict with our licensees, licensors or others with whom we have contractual or other business relationships, or with our competitors or others whose interests differ from ours. If we are unable to resolve those conflicts on terms that are satisfactory to all parties, we may become involved in litigation brought by or against us. That litigation is likely to be expensive and may require a significant amount of management’s time and attention, at the expense of other aspects of our business. Litigation relating to the ownership and use of intellectual property is expensive, and our position as a relatively small company in an industry dominated by very large companies may cause us to be at a disadvantage in defending our intellectual property rights and in defending against claims that our immunotherapy candidates infringe or misappropriate third-party intellectual property rights. Even if we are able to defend our position, the cost of doing so may adversely affect our profitability. We may in the future be subject to patent litigation and may not be able to protect our intellectual property at a reasonable cost if such litigation is initiated. The outcome of litigation is always uncertain, and in some cases could include judgments against us that require us to pay damages, enjoin us from certain activities or otherwise affect our legal or contractual rights, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business. 34 Table of Contents We are exposed to potential product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be adequate and may not be available to us at a reasonable rate in the future. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the research, development, manufacturing and marketing of drug candidates and products. If any of our drug candidates in clinical trials or our marketed products harm people or allegedly harm people, we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Most, if not all, of the patients who participate in our clinical trials are already seriously ill when they enter a trial. We have clinical trial insurance coverage, and commercial product liability insurance coverage. However, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims against us. There is also a risk that adequate insurance coverage will not be available in the future on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The successful assertion of an uninsured product liability or other claim against us could cause us to incur significant expenses to pay such a claim, could adversely affect our product development or product sales and could cause a decline in our product revenues. Even a successfully defended product liability claim could cause us to incur significant expenses to defend such a claim, could adversely affect our product development and could cause a decline in our product revenues. In addition, product liability claims could result in an FDA or equivalent non-United States regulatory authority investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities, or our marketing programs. An FDA or equivalent non-United States regulatory authority investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, limitations on the indications for which they may be used, or suspension or withdrawal of approval. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock We are currently subject to certain pending litigation and may be subject to similar claims in the future. Three putative securities class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington against the Company and certain of our current and former executive officers. The cases have been consolidated under the caption In re Dendreon Corporation Class Action Litigation, Master Docket No. C 11-1291 JLR, and the Court has appointed the San Mateo County Employees Retirement Association as Lead Plaintiff. Lead Plaintiff purports to state claims for violations of federal securities laws on behalf of a class of persons who purchased the Company’s common stock between April 29, 2010 and August 3, 2011. It is possible that additional suits will be filed with respect to these same matters. In addition, stockholder derivative actions were filed in both the Western District of Washington and King County Superior Court. These are actions brought by current shareholders, purportedly on behalf of the Company; and these matters are currently stayed pending resolution of anticipated initial motions in the consolidated securities actions. The Company is not a defendant in the stockholder derivative actions as the defendants are the members of the Company’s board of directors and certain executive officers. Nevertheless, the Company is at risk of incurring significant costs in connection with these derivative actions, including for example costs associated with discovery and defense of the individual defendants. We cannot predict the outcome of any of these suits or proceedings. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, and considering stockholder demands is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities and we cannot predict how long it may take to resolve these matters. In addition, legal fees and costs incurred in connection with such activities can be significant. We cannot predict the outcome of the matters or the associated costs to us, nor the amounts that the Company may need to pay to settle them or satisfy an adverse judgment. The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that it believes is applicable to these various lawsuits; however, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims against us. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to the suits or other claims related to the same matters. It is possible that we could, in the future, be subject to judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions or resulting from these matters could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Our business may be affected by other legal proceedings. We have been in the past, and may become in the future, involved in legal proceedings in addition to those described above. You should carefully review and consider the various disclosures we make in our reports filed 35 Table of Contents with the SEC regarding legal matters that may affect our business. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable and outcomes can result in excessive verdicts, fines, penalties and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Monitoring and defending against legal actions, whether or not meritorious, and considering stockholder demands, is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, legal fees and costs incurred in connection with such activities may be significant. We cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any legal proceedings in which we become involved and it is difficult to estimate the possible costs to us stemming from these matters. Settlements and decisions adverse to our interests in legal actions could result in the payment of substantial amounts and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Refer to Item 3 for further discussion of our legal proceedings. Market volatility may affect our stock price, and the value of an investment in our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases. The trading price for our common stock has been, and we expect it to continue to be, volatile. The price at which our common stock trades depends on a number of factors, including the following, many of which are beyond our control: • the relative success of our commercialization efforts for PROVENGE; • pre-clinical and clinical trial results and other product development activities; • our historical and anticipated operating results, including fluctuations in our financial and operating results or failure to meet revenue guidance; • changes in government regulations affecting product approvals, reimbursement or other aspects of our or our competitors’ businesses; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • developments concerning our key personnel; • our ability to protect our intellectual property, including in the face of changing laws; • announcements regarding significant collaborations or strategic alliances; • publicity regarding actual or potential performance of products under development by us or our competitors; • market perception of the prospects for biotechnology companies as an industry sector; and • general market and economic conditions. During periods of extreme stock market price volatility, share prices of many biotechnology companies have often fluctuated in a manner not necessarily related to their individual operating performance. Furthermore, historically our common stock has experienced greater price volatility than the stock market as a whole. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law and our stockholders’ rights plan could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended (“certification of incorporation”) and amended and restated bylaws (“bylaws”) will make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 1,000,000 shares have been designated as “Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock,” and to fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be junior to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock could reduce the voting power of the holders of our common stock and the likelihood that common stockholders will receive payments upon liquidation. 36 Table of Contents In addition, our certificate of incorporation divides our board of directors into three classes having staggered terms. This may delay any attempt to replace our board of directors. We have also implemented a stockholders’ rights plan, also called a poison pill, which would substantially reduce or eliminate the expected economic benefit to an acquirer from acquiring us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. These and other impediments to a third-party acquisition or change of control could limit the price investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our executive officers have employment agreements that include change of control provisions providing severance benefits in the event that their employment terminates involuntarily without cause or for good reason within twelve months after a change of control of us. These agreements could affect the consummation of and the terms of a third-party acquisition. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company. One of these provisions prevents us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person becomes an interested stockholder, unless specified conditions are satisfied. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We are not currently profitable. To the extent we become profitable, we intend to retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business and do not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment unless and until they sell shares after the trading price of our shares appreciates from the price at which the shareholder purchased. The fundamental change repurchase feature of our convertible notes may delay or prevent a takeover attempt of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. The indenture governing each of our 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes will require us to repurchase the notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and, in certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for a holder that converts its notes in connection with a fundamental change. A takeover of our company may be a fundamental change that would trigger the requirement that we repurchase the notes and increase the conversion rate, which could make it more costly for a potential acquirer to engage in a combinatory transaction with us. Such additional costs may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 