risk factors described in this report, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • results of clinical trials of our product candidates, particularly AGI-1067, and those of our competitors; • whether we maintain our collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca; • developments concerning any research and development, manufacturing and marketing collaborations, including whether and when we achieve milestones; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • the addition or termination of research programs or funding support; • publicity regarding actual or potential results relating to medicinal products under development by our competitors or us; • regulatory developments in the United States and other countries; • litigation; • economic and other external factors, including disasters or crises; and • period-to-period fluctuations in financial results. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. Purported securities class action lawsuits were filed against us and some of our executive officers and directors in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York on January 5, 2005 and February 8, 2005 (the “SDNY Actions”) and in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, Atlanta division on January 7, 2005, January 10, 2005, January 11, 2005 and January 25, 2005 (the “NDGA Actions”). Plaintiffs filed separate motions to consolidate these lawsuits in both the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of Georgia on March 7, 2005. In addition, three class members simultaneously moved for appointment as lead plaintiffs in both districts on March 7, 2005. On April 18, 2005, the Honorable Richard J. Holowell ordered the SDNY Actions consolidated under the caption “In re Atherogenics Securities Litigation” (the “SDNY Action”) and appointed lead plaintiff and co-lead counsel. On July 5, 2005, AtheroGenics filed a motion to transfer the SDNY Action to the Northern District of Georgia. On July 14, 2005, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the NDGA Actions. The SDNY Action and the defendants’ motion to transfer that action to Georgia are still pending. The allegations in these lawsuits relate to our disclosures regarding the results of the CART-2 clinical trial for AGI-1067. The results of complex legal proceedings, such as these purported class actions, are difficult to predict. Each complaint seeks unspecified damages and, therefore, we are unable to estimate the possible range of damages that we might incur should any of these lawsuits be resolved against us. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these lawsuits could harm our financial position. In addition, similar class action lawsuits may be filed against us and our executive officers and 30 Table of Contents directors in the future. Litigation can be costly, time consuming and disruptive to normal business operations. The defense of these lawsuits could also result in diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. Our existing indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur exposes us to risks that could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As of December 31, 2005, we had $300.1 million of total indebtedness outstanding. We may also incur additional long-term indebtedness or obtain additional working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences for our business, operating results and financial condition, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage with less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources. If we do not achieve a significant increase in revenues, we could have difficulty making required payments on our outstanding convertible notes, our other existing indebtedness and any indebtedness that we may incur in the future. During each of the last five years, we had no earnings to cover our fixed charges. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our convertible notes, our other existing indebtedness or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of the notes and that other indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the notes and that other indebtedness and could cause defaults under the notes and that other indebtedness. Any default under our convertible notes, our other existing indebtedness or any indebtedness which we may incur in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversion of our convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of the 1.5% convertible notes due 2012 or the 4.5% convertible notes due 2008 will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. In January 2006, holders converted $14.0 million of the 4.5% convertible notes into 1,085,000 shares of our common stock. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock. Our shareholder rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may make an acquisition of us, which may benefit our shareholders, more difficult. Our shareholder rights plan and provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. These documents include provisions that: • allow our shareholders the right to acquire common stock from us at discounted prices in the event a person acquires 15% or more of our common stock or announces an attempt to do so without our board of directors’ prior consent; 31 Table of Contents • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock by our board of directors without shareholder approval, which would increase the number of outstanding shares and could thwart a takeover attempt; • limit who may call a special meeting of shareholders; • require shareholder action without a meeting by unanimous written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at shareholder meetings; • establish a staggered board of directors whose members can only be dismissed for cause; • adopt the fair price requirements and rules regarding business combinations with interested shareholders set forth in Article 11, Parts 2 and 3 of the Georgia Business Corporation Code; and • require approval by the holders of at least 75% of the outstanding common stock to amend any of the foregoing provisions. Item 1B. Unresolved SEC Staff Comments None. 