ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. In determining whether to purchase our securities, you should carefully consider all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report before making a decision to purchase our securities. You should only purchase our securities if you can afford to suffer the loss of your entire investment. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS The Merger agreement with Skywide will limit your ability to participate in any improvement in our business and operations. The merger agreement with Skywide, which is wholly owned by Mr. Tianzhou Deng, our chairman, and Mr. Bo Huang, our chief executive officer, both of whom are also directors, provides that, subject to shareholder approval, we will be merged with and into Skywide, and all shareholders, other than Skywide, Mr. Deng and Mr. Huang, will receive in respect to each share owned at the effective time of the merger the right to receive $1.90 per share. As a result, upon completion of the merger, you will cease to have any interest in us other than the right to receive $1.90 per share upon delivery of the certificates for your common stock. We cannot assure you that the merger will be completed or that, if the merger is not completed, the price of our common stock will not decline significantly. Because we have a deficiency in working capital and sustained a significant loss for the year ended September 30, 2009, and our losses are continuing, we cannot assure you that we will continue as a going concern or operate profitably in the future. At September 30, 2009, we had a deficiency in working capital of approximately $9.1 million, and for the year ended September 30, 2009, we sustained a loss of approximately $13.1 million on sales of $41.8 million, as compared with net income of approximately $16.1 million on sales of $40.9 million for the year ended September 30, 2008, and our losses have continued subsequent to September 30, 2009. Our working capital deficiency resulted from our loss and the reclassification of notes from long-term to short term as a result of amendments to the underlying instruments. Our loss resulted from a significantly lower gross margin and significantly higher operating expenses and interest. These factors are continuing to affect our operations and we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate profitably in the future. As of September 30, 2009, we have limited financial resources with which to achieve our objectives and obtain profitability and positive cash flows. Achievement of our objectives will be dependent upon our ability to obtain additional financial, to generate revenue from our current and planned business operations, and control costs. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our independent auditors have included a going concern qualification in their report on our financial statements. Because of our recurring losses from operations and our working capital deficiency, our auditors have included a going concern qualification in their report on our financial statements. As a result, our financial statements do not reflect any adjustment which would result from our failure to continue to operate as a going concern. Any such adjustment, if necessary, would materially affect the value of our assets. We may have difficulty collecting our receivables. At September 30, 2008, our accounts receivable were outstanding for an average of 124 days, and at September 30, 2009, our accounts receivable were outstanding for an average of 225 days. A significant amount of receivables that were outstanding at September 30, 2008 remained outstanding on September 30, 2009. In addition, at September 30, 2008, we had a rental receivable of $2.6 million pertaining to a land use sublease. We established a $988,000 reserve for that uncollected note at September 30, 2009. Our failure to collect our trade and notes receivables in the normal course of business could impair our ability to continue in business. We are required to pay our convertible notes upon completion of the merger with Skywide. In September 2007, we issued our 12% guaranteed senior notes due 2012 in the principal amount of $16 million and 3.0% guaranteed senior convertible notes due 2012 in the principal amount of $14 million. The 12% senior notes have been paid in full since September 30, 2009. Pursuant to a December 2009 agreement with the holders of the 3% convertible notes, we agreed to pay the $14 million principal amount of convertible notes in two installments following the completion of the merger with Skywide, together with interest to generate a yield to maturity of 13.8%, net of payments made on account. The Company may not have the resources to repay the debt and the noteholders may exert certain rights to the detriment of the Company. Because we are dependent upon a small number of customers in one or more of our segments, which varies from year to year, the inability to generate new business could impair our ability to operate profitably. In general, in our customized pressure container business and our CNG station construction business, we do not have long-term contracts with our customers, and major contracts with a small number of customers account for a significant percentage of our revenue from these segments. Our contracts relate to specific projects. As a result, a customer can account for significant revenue in one year and little, if any, in the next. One customer of our station facilities and construction segment accounted for approximately 19.2% of our sales in the year ended September 30, 2009 and 21.6% of our sales in the year ended September 30, 2008. Another customer from this segment accounted for 10.4% of our sales in the year ended September 30, 2008. Our failure to develop new customers in this and our other segments could materially impair our ability to operate these segments profitably. 10 Our CNG stations are dependent upon two government-owned suppliers. We purchase our CNG from one of two government-owned companies. The failure or inability of these companies to provide us with CNG could materially impair our ability to operate CNG stations. Our CNG station business has risks that are different from our manufacturing and construction/installation business. We have commenced and are planning the expansion of our CNG service station business. The operation of the CNG gas station business is subject to significant additional risks which are not related to our other segments. In addition to the normal risks associated with our business, there are additional risks that relate to the CNG station business. These risks include, but are not limited to: We lack experience in operating CNG stations. Although we have manufactured and installed equipment for use by CNG stations, we have limited experience in operating stations, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating CNG stations. We require significant additional funds to enable us to develop and expand the CNG station business. The construction of CNG stations is very capital intensive, and we will require significant additional funds for this purpose. Although we raised $30,000,000 through the sale of our debt securities in September 2007, we may require additional financing to equip and construct our proposed CNG stations, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any financing which we may require, either for our CNG station business or our equipment manufacture and supply business. The CNG station business is highly regulated and is subject to price controls. The storage, transportation and distribution of CNG are subject to PRC regulations, including the price at which we both buy and sell CNG. The price controls over the purchase and sale of CNG limits our potential profit from the sale of CNG. In addition, before we construct a CNG station in many regions, we need to obtain government approvals. Other regulations may result in increased costs in order to comply with these regulations. Before we are able to open a CNG filling, we must obtain government approval. In the past, we have had to postpone the opening of our CNG stations because of delays in obtaining government approval. Because of the nature of CNG, we could be exposed to liability from gas leaks or explosions. Any leaks or explosions from our CNG stations could cause severe property damage as well as loss of life, which may not be covered by insurance. Any such loss could result in a termination of our business and could subject us to regulatory actions. The market for CNG stations is dependent upon the increased use of CNG powered vehicles. CNG-powered vehicles represent only a small fraction of motor vehicles in the PRC, and most vehicles are powered by gasoline or diesel fuel. For us to be successful in the CNG gas station business, a market for CNG must be developed in the area which we propose to enter. Car and truck owners must either buy a CNG powered vehicle or pay to have a gasoline or diesel powered vehicle converted for CNG use. The current economic downturn has materially decreased the market for CNG vehicles, and we cannot assure you that the market for CNG will improve in the near future, if at all. In order for a market to develop for CNG vehicles, there must be a network of CNG stations on major highways throughout the PRC. The failure of such a network to develop could hinder the development of a market for CNG vehicles which would in turn limit the market for our CNG stations. We must secure enough CNG resources to supply our filling stations in future. Natural gas is limited in China, especially in central and eastern China where we are operating and developing our CNG retail business. Although we have agreements to provide us with a fixed amount of natural gas, we cannot assure you that these agreements will be sufficient to satisfy our CNG needs and we cannot assure that such CNG will be delivered on a timely basis. These agreements are subject to annual allocations and a major pipeline which is expected to provide us with CNG. Although the construction of the pipeline has been completed, the pipeline is undergoing completion testing, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to receive significant gas from this pipeline in the near future. Further, it is possible that we may experience shortages, particularly in the winter months when gas demand peaks. We have no recourse against any party in the event that the pipeline is not able to deliver the natural gas that we may require. We may not be able to meet our scheduled station openings. We have already encountered delays in opening our stations, and we cannot assure you that we will not encounter delays in the future. These delays can result from a range of factors, including adverse weather conditions, delays in obtaining government approvals, delays in receipt of materials for the construction of the stations, and other causes which may or may not be within our control. Any delays may impair our ability to operate this business profitably. 11 Competition is increasing for CNG distribution. Our CNG stations compete with gasoline stations as well as other CNG stations. The ability of our CNG stations to operate profitably is largely dependent upon the acceptance of CNG by individual drivers as well as taxis and buses, which are presently the largest users of CNG. As more companies seek to fill the need for CNG stations, our competition will increase. PetroChina Co., China’s largest oil and gas producer by capacity and our present supplier of natural gas, has recently announced its intention to enter the CNG distribution business. These plans present a competitive threat to companies such as us. Because of PetroChina’s size, it may be in a better position than we to enter into contacts with the city governments to supply natural gas to those cities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with PetroChina if PetroChina enters the markets in which we operate CNG stations. We may face liability claims from users of our products. As the manufacturer of equipment that is used to store and transport CNG and other products, including petroleum, chemicals and food products, we may be subject both to liability in the event that any property damages or loss of life results from our products. We may also be liable for damages in the event that our CNG conversion kits do not function properly. Any liability which results could hurt our reputation and result in the payment of damages which may not be covered by insurance. Our CNG conversion kit business is subject to the development of a market for products that can enable gasoline powered vehicles to operate on CNG. One segment of our business is the manufacture and sale of conversion kits that enable gasoline-powered vehicles to operate on CNG. The customers of these products are both vehicle manufacturers and vehicle owners. Our ability to operate this segment profitably is dependent upon a number of factors including the development of a market for conversion kits, our ability to compete successfully with other manufacturers or distributors of conversion kits, and the ability of our products to work properly in a wide range of both old and new vehicles. The current economic downturn together with the recent decline in oil and gasoline prices may have an effect on the market for conversion kits. Because we are dependent on our management, the loss of our key executive officers and the failure to hire additional qualified key personnel could harm our business. Our business is largely dependent upon the continued efforts of our chief executive officer, Bo Huang, and our chairman, Tianzhou Deng, who are also directors. We do not have employment contracts with either Mr. Huang or Mr. Deng. The loss of either Mr. Huang, Mr. Deng or any of our other key employees could have a material adverse effect upon our ability to operate profitably. Furthermore, we require additional qualified management and other key personnel for our CNG station business. We may not be able to continue to grow through acquisitions. In addition to our planned growth through the development of our CNG station business, an important part of our growth strategy has been to expand our business and to acquire other businesses in related industries or to form joint ventures with other companies. Such acquisitions may be made with cash or our securities or a combination of cash and securities. Any joint ventures may require us to make significant capital contributions in order to develop the business contemplated by the joint venture. To the extent that we require cash, we may have to borrow the funds or sell equity securities. We anticipate that if we acquire other Chinese businesses, the seller would expect to receive all or substantially all of the sales price in cash, and we expect that we would have to raise funds in order to consummate any such acquisition. Any issuance of equity as a portion of the purchase price or any sale of equity, to the extent that we are able to sell equity, to raise funds to enable us to pay the purchase price would result in dilution to our stockholders. We have no commitments from any financing source and we may not be able to raise any cash necessary to complete an acquisition. If we fail to make any acquisitions, our future growth may be limited. Further, any acquisition may be subject to government regulations and approval in the PRC. Further, our recent results of operations may affect the willingness of a business owner to sell his business to us and the willingness of any debt or equity financing source to provide us with acquisition funding. If we make any acquisitions, they may disrupt or have a negative impact on our business. If we make acquisitions, we could have difficulty integrating the acquired companies’ personnel and operations with our own. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired business may not be willing to work for us. We cannot predict the effect expansion may have on our core business. Regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. In addition to the risks described above, acquisitions are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the following: • the difficulty of integrating acquired products, services or operations; • the potential disruption of the ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired rights or products into our existing business; • difficulties in disposing of the excess or idle facilities of an acquired company or business and expenses in maintaining such facilities; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; 12 • the potential impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • the potential inability or failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer base through cross-marketing of the products to new and existing customers; • the effect of any government regulations which relate to the business acquired, including government approval of the acquisition; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses or product lines, or the need to spend significant amounts to retool, reposition or modify the marketing and sales of acquired products or the defense of any litigation, whether or not successful, resulting from actions of the acquired company prior to our acquisition. Our business could be severely impaired if and to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions, many of which cannot be presently identified, these risks and problems could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results in future periods may vary from quarter to quarter, and, as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of our investors and analysts, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We do not manufacture our customized pressure containers for inventory, but pursuant to a specific contract, and our contract flow is not predictable. Similarly, products and services from our manufacture of CNG storage and transportation products and the construction of CNG stations segment are also made pursuant to specific contracts, and after the completion of a project our services may no longer be required by our customers. To the extent that we do not generate new business, our revenue from this segment of our business will decline. To the extent that we expand our facilities to meet present or anticipated increases in sales or expand our CNG station business and sell our CNG conversion kits, our failure to generate business could have the effect of significantly reducing the profitability of our business. Because of these factors, our revenue and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter. We expect that fluctuations in both revenue and net income will continue due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Due to the risks discussed in this annual report, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Because certain of our stockholders control a significant amount of our common stock, they may have effective control over actions requiring stockholder approval. As of December 18, 2009, approximately 40.0% of our outstanding common stock is owned by Skywide (which is owned by our chairman, Mr. Deng, and our chief executive officer, Mr. Huang ), which may provide Skywide with effective control over actions taken by our stockholders. We may not be able to comply with the regulations relating to internal controls over financial reporting. The SEC has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, commencing with the year ending September 30, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with the periodic evaluation of our disclosure controls our chief executive officer and chief financial officer identified weaknesses related to our accounting personnel’s ability to identify accounting and disclosure issues, calculate accounting entries, and prepare financial statements and footnotes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These officers have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective at this time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing these issues and any other issues which may be raised. If we are unable to address these issues, unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. We have not yet begun a formal process to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting. Given the status of our efforts, coupled with the fact that guidance from regulatory authorities in the area of internal controls continues to evolve, substantial uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply by applicable deadlines. The financing agreement gives the investors certain rights relating to our business which may affect our ability to develop our business. The investors in our September 2007 financing have the right of approval with respect to our budgets in accordance with a schedule set forth in an investor rights agreement. We are also prohibited from dismissing the auditor without the investor’s consent unless the dismissal is approved by an audit committee on which a designee of the investor is a member. These rights may affect our ability to develop our business and may have a negative impact on our stock price. 13 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH COMPANIES CONDUCTING BUSINESS IN THE PRC Because the scope of our business license is limited and subject to review, we may need government approval to continue or expand our business. A business in China can only conduct business within its approved business scope, which appears on the business license. Our licenses permit us to engage in our present businesses. Our licenses are subject to the inspection by the government agencies of our facilities. The government has the power to withdraw a license from those companies which may be disqualified as a result of these inspections by the central government. Any change in the scope of our business requires further application and government approval. Inevitably, there is a negotiation with the authorities to approve as broad a business scope as is permitted, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary government approval for any change or expansion of our business. We cannot provide any assurance that we may be able to maintain our present licenses or that we will be able to obtain any additional licenses that may be required if we seek to expand the scope of our business. If the PRC enacts regulations which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to grow may be severely impaired. We intend to expand our business both by increasing our product range, operating CNG stations. Many of the rules and regulations that we would face are not explicitly communicated, and we may be subject to rules that would affect our ability to grow, either internally or through acquisition of other Chinese or foreign companies. There are also substantial uncertainties regarding the proper interpretation of current laws and regulations of the PRC. New laws or regulations that forbid foreign investment could severely impair our businesses and prospects. Additionally, if the relevant authorities find us in violation of PRC laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; and • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations. Any deterioration of political relations between the United States and the PRC could impair our operations. The relationship between the United States and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential acquisition candidates or their goods and services to become less attractive. Such a change could lead to a decline in our profitability. Any weakening of relations between the United States and the PRC could have a material adverse effect on our operations, particularly in our efforts to raise capital to expand our CNG station and other business activities. Our operations and assets in the PRC are subject to significant political and economic uncertainties. Government policies are subject to rapid change and the government of the PRC may adopt policies which have the effect of hindering private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. There is no assurance that the government of the PRC will not significantly alter its policies from time to time without notice in a manner that reduces or eliminates any benefits from its present policies of economic reform. The recent worldwide economic slowdown, which affected China, may affect government policies as they relate to the industries which we serve, which relate to the purchase or capital equipment and the purchase and sale of natural gas. In addition, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC remains government-owned. For instance, all land is state-owned and leased to business entities or individuals through governmental granting of state-owned land use rights. The granting process is typically based on government policies at the time of granting, which could be lengthy and complex. This process may adversely affect our future expansion, especially as we are seeking both to expand manufacturing operations and to expand our CNG business. The government of the PRC also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Uncertainties may arise with changing of governmental policies and measures. In addition, changes in laws and regulations, or their interpretation, or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, imports and sources of supply, devaluations of currency, the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises, as well as adverse changes in the political, economic or social conditions in the PRC, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Price controls may affect both our revenues and net income. The laws of the PRC provide for the government to fix and adjust prices. In connection with our operation of CNG stations, the price at which we both purchase and sell CNG is subject to government price controls. It is possible that other products we sell or services that we provide may also become subject to price control. To the extent that we are subject to price control, our revenue, gross profit, gross margin and net income will be affected since the revenue we derive from our sales will be limited and, unless there is also price control on the products that we purchase from our suppliers, we may face no limitation on our costs. Further, if price controls affect both our revenue and our costs, our ability to be profitable and the extent of our profitability will be effectively subject to determination by the applicable regulatory authorities in the PRC. One aspect of the operation of CNG stations is the price controls, whereby both the price at which we purchase CNG and the price at which we sell CNG are subject to price controls by central government and municipal government. As a result of these price controls, our gross margin is effectively dependent upon the government’s pricing policies. We cannot assure you that one of the government’s responses to the economic downturn will not be to increase the adoption of price controls on other segments of our business. 14 Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to the market-oriented economies of OECD member countries. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it functions and produces according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. In certain aspects, the PRC’s economy has been making a transition to a more market-oriented economy, although the government imposes price controls on certain products and in certain industries. However, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have. The economy of the PRC also differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”), an international group of member countries sharing a commitment to democratic government and market economy. For instance: • the level of state-owned enterprises in the PRC, as well as the level of governmental control over the allocation of resources is greater than in most of the countries belonging to the OECD; • the level of capital reinvestment is lower in the PRC than in other countries that are members of the OECD; • the government of the PRC has a greater involvement in general in the economy and the economic structure of industries within the PRC than other countries belonging to the OECD; • the government of the PRC imposes price controls on certain products and our products may become subject to additional price controls; and • the PRC has various impediments in place that make it difficult for foreign firms to obtain local currency, as opposed to other countries belonging to the OECD where exchange of currencies is generally free from restriction. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the economy of the PRC were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Because our officers and some of our directors reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce United States court judgments against them in the PRC. Most of our directors and all of our executive officers reside in the PRC and substantially all of our assets are located in the PRC. It may therefore be difficult for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. We may have limited legal recourse under Chinese law if disputes arise under contracts with third parties. Almost all of our agreements with our employees and third parties, including our supplier and customers, are governed by the laws of the PRC. The legal system in the PRC is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, such as we have in the United States, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. The government of the PRC has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the PRC, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance or to seek an injunction under Chinese law are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we have limited business insurance in the PRC, we may not be protected from risks that are customarily covered by insurance in the United States. We have and will continue to maintain property insurance for our CNG stations and manufacturing facilities which are operational to protect us from any damages caused by the failure or alleged failure of our products. However, business insurance is not readily available in the PRC. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. 15 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. We can make no assurance, however, that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively. We are subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations affecting currency conversion. Any restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our stockholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. Conversion of RMB, the currency of the PRC, for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the regulatory authorities of the PRC will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Because a significant component for many of our customized pressure containers, the steel vessels, is manufactured outside of the PRC, our inability to pay our foreign manufacturer may impair our ability to manufacture our products. Fluctuations in the exchange rate could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We conduct our business in RMB. To the extent our future revenue are denominated in currencies other the United States dollars, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results since our operating results are reported in United States dollars and significant changes in the exchange rate could materially impact our reported earnings. The downturn in the economy of the PRC may slow our growth and impair our ability to generate profits. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. Following a period of general economic growth, China, like the rest of the world, has recently been subject to an economic downturn. During the year ended September 30, 2009, the business of all of segments was negatively affected by the economic downturn, which resulted in a decreased use of products such as ours or in pressure on us to lower our prices. Our customized pressure container business and our CNG station facilities and construction business are dependent upon our customers making significant capital purchases, either for pressure containers or for new CNG stations. The availability of financing to our customers as well as the capital requirements of our customers could significantly reduce the need for these products and services. Since our CNG station business is dependent upon the development of a market for cars and trucks that run on CNG rather than gasoline, any economic trends which have the effect of dampening the market for CNG vehicles could affect our ability both to sell our CNG products and to sell CNG at our proposed CNG stations. The recent sharp decline in oil and gasoline prices may affect the need for CNG stations or for conversion kits to enable gasoline-powered vehicles to operate on CNG. If certain tax exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct corporate withholding taxes from any dividends we may pay in the future. Under the PRC’s current tax laws, regulations and rulings, companies are exempt from paying withholding taxes with respect dividends paid to stockholders outside of the PRC. However, if the foregoing exemption is removed, we may be required to deduct certain amounts from any dividends we pay to our stockholders. If our favorable tax treatment is overturned, we may be subject to significant penalties. On March 16, 2007, the PRC’s National People’s Congress passed a new corporate income tax law, which became effective January 1, 2008. This new income tax unifies the corporate income tax rate of domestic enterprises and foreign investment enterprises to 25%. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to entities that are classified as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” or that conduct business in sectors that are encouraged by the PRC’s National People’s Congress. This new tax law, however, does not clearly define the requirements or criteria for receiving these preferential tax treatments. A significant portion of our net income is derived from subsidiaries that presently benefit from full or 50% exemptions from enterprise income tax for up to a total of five years. Because clear implementation and requirement rules or guidelines for the new tax law have not yet been promulgated, we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will maintain their preferential tax status or that we will not be assessed significant penalties. 16 If the PRC tax authorities dispute our method of paying value added taxes, we may be subject to penalties under the tax laws of the PRC. Under the commercial practice of the PRC, we pay value added taxes (“VAT”) and business tax based on tax invoices issued. We generally issue our tax invoice subsequent to the date on which revenue is recognized, and there may be a considerable delay between the date on which the revenue is recognized and the date on which the tax invoice is issued. In the event that the PRC tax authorities dispute the date of which revenue is recognized for tax purposes, the PRC tax office has the right to assess a penalty which can range from zero to five times the tax which is determined to have been improperly deferred. Although we believe that we are paying VAT and business taxes in accordance with the common practice in PRC, we cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities would not reach a different conclusion and determine that common practice is not in accordance with the tax laws of the PRC. If a penalty is ultimately assessed against us, the penalty could represent a material amount. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INVESTING IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock may be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market because of our failure to hold a meeting of shareholders during 2009. The NASDAQ Capital Markets requires us to hold an annual meeting of shareholders at which proxies are solicited. Because we failed to hold a meeting during the year ended September 30, 2009, NASDAQ advised us of its intention to delist our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Markets. As a result of our appeal, NASDAQ advised us that it would continue the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market subject to the condition that we hold our annual shareholders meeting on or before January 19, 2010. We are required to report any significant event, including any event which may call into question our ability to meet this timetable, and NASDAQ may delist our stock prior to January 19, 2010 if it questions our ability to meet the January 19, 2010 deadline. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and the failure to be listed on that market could materially and adversely affect both the market for and the market price of our stock. Shares may be issued pursuant to our stock plans which may affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue stock upon the exercise of options or pursuant to stock grants covering a total of 1,000,000 shares of common stock pursuant to our 2006 long-term incentive plan. The exercise of any options we may grant under this plan and the sale of the underlying shares of common stock and the sale of stock issued pursuant to stock grants may have an adverse effect upon the price of our stock. If we issue all of the shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the plan, these shares will represent approximately 5.9% of the outstanding common stock, based on the presently outstanding shares of common stock. Because we have significant related party transactions, institutional and other investors may be reluctant to purchase our stock which could affect both the price and the market for our stock. During 2005, we purchased land use rights from a former related party, Beijing Sanhuan Technology Development Co., Ltd (“Beijing Sanhuan”) with an initial purchase price of $12.3 million, which was increased to $18.6 million. As of September 30, 2009, the Company had paid the purchase price to Beijing Sanhuan in full. We also license technology from Beijing Sanhuan for $322,000, the Company had paid in full as of September 30, 2009, and we use Beijing Sanhuan’s services for our subsidiaries. As a result, investors may be reluctant to invest in our common stock, which would affect both the stock price and the trading volume in our stock. In October 2009, we entered into the agreement of merger with Skywide pursuant to which, upon the completion of the merger, our shareholders, other than Skywide, Mr. Deng, Mr. Huang and their affiliates, would receive $1.90 in respect of each shares of common stock outstanding. We believe that the terms of the merger agreement has a effect upon the market price of our stock. Because of our cash requirements and restrictions in our financing we may be unable to pay dividends. If we generate earnings, we expect to retain earnings to finance the growth of our business, particularly, our proposed CNG station business, which is very capital intensive. Further, the agreements relating to our $30 million September 2007 financing, of which convertible notes in the principal amount of $14 million are outstanding as of December 28, 2009, restrict our use of our funds. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable to smaller reporting issuers. 