Item 1A. Risk Factors. - ---------------------- In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Eastern Pennsylvania because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as ours are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the 25 value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. There are increased risks involved with multi-family residential, commercial real estate, commercial business and consumer lending activities. Our lending activities include loans secured by existing multi-family residential and commercial real estate. In addition, from time to time we originate loans for the construction of multi-family residential real estate and land acquisition and development loans. Multi-family residential, commercial real estate and construction lending generally is considered to involve a higher degree of risk than single-family residential lending due to a variety of factors, including generally larger loan balances, the dependency on successful completion or operation of the project for repayment, the difficulties in estimating construction costs and loan terms which often do not require full amortization of the loan over its term and, instead, provide for a balloon payment at stated maturity. Our lending activities also include commercial business loans and leases to small to medium businesses, which generally are secured by various equipment, machinery and other corporate assets, and a wide variety of consumer loans, including home improvement loans, home equity loans, education loans and loans secured by automobiles, boats, mobile homes, recreational vehicles and other personal property. Although commercial business loans and leases and consumer loans generally have shorter terms and higher interests rates than mortgage loans, they generally involve more risk than mortgage loans because of the nature of, or in certain cases the absence of, the collateral which secures such loans. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and operations of us and our subsidiaries in the future. We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. 26 Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers' needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements which restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders depends to a large extent upon the dividends we receive from Harleysville Savings Bank. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania and federal laws and regulations. In addition, Harleysville Savings Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of the Company or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. Our deposit insurance premium could be substantially higher in the future which would have an adverse effect on our future earnings. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC, absent extraordinary circumstances, must establish and implement a plan to restore the deposit insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of insured deposits, over a five-year period, at any time that the reserve ratio falls below 1.15%. The recent failures of a large financial institution and several smaller ones have significantly increased the Deposit Insurance Fund's loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the reserve ratio to 1.01% as of June 30, 2008, 18 basis points below the reserve ratio as of March 31, 2008. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured institution failures in the next few years, which may result in a continued decline in the reserve ratio. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC released a five-year recapitalization plan and a proposal to raise premiums to recapitalize the fund. In order to implement the restoration plan, the FDIC proposed to change both its risk-based assessment system and its base assessment rates. Assessment rates would increase by seven basis points across the range of risk weightings. Changes to the risk-based assessment system would include increasing premiums for institutions that rely on excessive amounts of brokered deposits, increasing premiums for excessive use of secured liabilities, and lowering premiums for smaller institutions with very high capital levels. The actions of the U.S. Government for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, may not achieve the intended effect, and our results of operations could be adversely effected. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the 27 Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA"). The EESA provides the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability. As of the date hereof, the Treasury has determined not to purchase troubled assets under the program. As part of the EESA, the Treasury Department has developed a Capital Purchase Program to purchase up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock from qualifying financial institutions. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to strengthen the capital and liquidity positions of viable institutions and to encourage banks and thrifts to increase lending to creditworthy borrowers. The EESA also establishes a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program that gives the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the ability to provide a guarantee for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts at eligible insured institutions. For non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, a 10 basis point annual rate surcharge will be applied to deposit amounts in excess of $250,000. We have elected not to participate in the Capital Purchase Program but will participate in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The U.S. Congress or federal banking regulatory agencies could adopt additional regulatory requirements or restrictions in response to the threats to the financial system and such changes may adversely affect the operations of Company and the Bank. In addition, the EESA may not have the intended beneficial impact on the financial markets or the banking industry. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to the Troubled Asset Relief Program or the program does not function as intended, our prospects and results of operations could be adversely effected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. - ---------------------------------- Not applicable. 28 