Item 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the matters included in the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the value of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to maintain the service contracts we have with various governmental agencies or fail to enter into additional contracts, we would lose a significant source of revenues. We currently derive almost all of our revenues from the forensic, family relationship and agricultural testing fields. These services are heavily dependent upon contracts with various governmental agencies, which are typically open to bids and usually have a term from one to three years. The process and criteria for these awards are typically complex and highly competitive, particularly with respect to the price of the services offered. Bid awards also are subject to protests which can be expensive to prosecute or defend and which may delay the awarding of a contract. Although we have not previously been debarred or disqualified for breach or non-performance of any contract, if such debarment or disqualification were to occur, we may not be awarded future government contracts. For example, we expect the police forces in the UK to solicit initial tenders for forensic services through the UK’s National Procurement Plan by the end of 2011. If we are unable to successfully bid on a significant portion of this work, our UK revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain any of our existing governmental contracts or be the successful bidder on any additional governmental contracts which may become available in the future, or we may not be able to negotiate terms acceptable to us in connection with any governmental contract awarded to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The markets in which we participate are very competitive and price sensitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed. The markets for DNA testing services in the US and the UK are very competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or our failure to increase market share. In each of our markets, we compete with other companies offering services that are similar to those that we offer. In both the US and the UK, we have experienced lower average selling prices per sample as a result of significant price competition. In addition, in the US, government laboratories also provide forensic DNA testing services for their jurisdictions, which is a significant portion of all forensic DNA testing done in the US. Some of our competitors have greater financial, operational, sales and marketing resources and more experience in research and development and commercialization than us. Other competitors have been acquired during the last 18 months by private equity firms and may have additional resources through such acquisitions. Moreover, some competitors may have greater name recognition than us, and may offer discounts on their services or products as a competitive tactic. 9 Table of Contents Many of our customers, or the contracts on which we bid, are price sensitive, and a critical aspect of our business is determining the appropriate prices for our services. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors compete with our services, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers, attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used, or win competitive bids with governmental agencies. As a result, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. In addition, our ability to obtain awards under the UK’s National Procurement Plan will directly impact our UK revenues over the next few years, and if our bidding under this plan is unsuccessful, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We cannot guarantee the receipt of work or revenues from our government contracts. We regularly compete in an open bid forum in order to secure or renew contracts with various law enforcement and governmental agencies for the provision of DNA-based testing services. A contract award may be subject to funding obligations by the applicable government and there can be no assurances that such funding will be renewed. Many contracts with governmental agencies allow for the agency to terminate a contract at any time if funding is not available to pay for our services. There also may be operational factors that disrupt the flow of work to us. For example, a previous shipment of samples from a state lab under a CODIS contract was delayed because the state did not have adequate personnel to prepare the samples for shipment to our test facility. Thus, we are not always able to rely on a fixed amount of revenue based on services provided under these contracts. These administrative and operational issues are beyond our control and may delay the receipt of work under an award, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition during a given fiscal period. We cannot guarantee that we will be awarded a significant portion of the service packages under the UK’s National Procurement Plan. We expect the police forces in the UK to solicit initial tenders for forensics services through the UK’s National Procurement Plan, a formalized bidding process implemented in 2008, by the end of 2011. Although we were awarded a significant portion of the service packages we bid on in the North West/South West and Wales regional tender, we cannot guarantee that we will win a significant portion of the service packages under the National Procurement Plan. If we are unsuccessful in securing a sufficient number of service packages under the National Procurement Plan, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. If we fail to provide adequate service levels to police forces under the U.K. National Procurement Plan, we may be required to issue service credits which would reduce the amounts payable for our services and adversely affect our business. Under the National Procurement Plan in the U.K., we are contractually obligated to meet certain service levels, such as turnaround time, when delivering forensic services to participating police forces. If we fail to meet these service levels, the applicable police force is entitled to a service credit which reduces the amount payable to us by 2% to 10% depending on the degree of the service failure. In such event, the amounts payable for our services could be significantly reduced and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Work awarded to us in the UK may be subject to unanticipated TUPE expenses. DNA testing work awarded to us in the UK may be subject to the hiring or compensatory obligations under the UK’s Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment), or TUPE, regulations. TUPE is the UK employment legislation that governs the transfer of employment obligations from one party to another. If we are unable to properly anticipate the amount of TUPE-related expenses, we may not realize the benefits of a DNA 10 Table of Contents testing contract awarded to us. If we are obligated to pay a significant amount of TUPE-related expenses in connection with any award, our results of operations financial condition could be adversely affected. International sales are subject to increased costs and other risks, which could affect our revenues. Our business includes international sales which are subject to certain inherent risks, including difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, potentially longer payment cycles, increased costs associated with maintaining international marketing efforts, currency fluctuations as they impact reported results, changes in regulatory requirements and difficulties in enforcement of contractual obligations and intellectual property rights. During 2009, we derived approximately 50% of our revenues from international sales. The significant percentage of our revenue derived from our UK operations makes us vulnerable to future fluctuations in the exchange rate. For the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 2008, our UK revenues were unfavorably impacted approximately 15% as a result of the exchange rate movement of the British pound as compared to the US dollar, and future material adverse exchange rate movements would have an additional unfavorable translation impact on our consolidated financial results. If general economic trends continue to decline, trends in government spending and, therefore, demand for DNA testing services may change and reduce demand for our services, which would have a materially negative impact on our business. A majority of our revenue is derived from contracts with various law enforcement and governmental agencies for the provision of DNA-based testing services. Many national, state and local government entities are currently experiencing severe financial distress due to global economic conditions. Current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our government customers to fund their operating budgets. During the year ended December 31, 2009, a few government customers sought price reductions from all vendors and suppliers, including DNA testing providers like us because of budgetary concerns. As a result our government customers may reduce budgets, which could have a negative effect on our revenue, gross margin and operating results. Any adverse impact of economic conditions on us is difficult to predict but it may result in reductions in demand for our DNA testing services. If events negatively impact the economy, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Changes in outsourcing trends for forensic DNA testing could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. Our forensic revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by government entities for DNA testing for forensic casework and CODIS. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our government customers also affect our business. For example, the practice of many state governments in the US has been to engage outside organizations like us to conduct forensic DNA testing. This practice has grown significantly in the last decade, and we have benefited from this trend. However, if this trend was to change and states were to reduce the amount of forensic DNA testing they outsource, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If government funding is not available to reduce the rape kit backlog or if this work is not outsourced to private laboratories, our business may be adversely affected. A significant portion of our North American forensic revenue in 2009 was derived from contracts with various law enforcement and governmental agencies for the provision of DNA testing services related to rape kits held in evidence backlog. Although the Senate Judiciary Committee held hearings on this topic in December 2009, there is no assurance that the reduction of the rape kit backlog will be adequately funded by federal or state governments or that such work will be outsourced to private laboratories such as us. If government funding is not made available to reduce the rape kit backlog or if such rape kits are not outsourced to private laboratories such as us, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Recent turmoil across various sectors of the financial markets may negatively impact our business. In recent years, the various sectors of the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the disruption in credit markets and availability of credit and other financing, the failure, bankruptcy, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the US and foreign governments. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain financing necessary to effectively execute our long-term strategies, and this could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, results of operations and financial condition. The change in the method of awarding CODIS contracts has adversely affected our CODIS business. Prior to 2008, the NIJ administered all federally-funded CODIS awards to the participating states, including the selection of the DNA testing vendor. Starting in 2008, however, the states were given the option to apply for grants from the NIJ and administer the awards directly. Each state would then select the vendor, or vendors, to process their DNA samples, rather than the NIJ making that selection. As a result of this new award option, the number of states issuing CODIS bids in 2008 and 2009 decreased significantly. We believe that backlogs of DNA samples at the state level are increasing and that states will eventually move to administer the awards in order to bring down backlogs. We also believe that excess CODIS capacity has been built-up in the private sector and this may affect pricing in the future. If states do not seek competitive bids for this CODIS work in a timely manner or if we are unsuccessful in securing a sufficient number of CODIS awards at acceptable prices in the future, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We are currently consolidating our US paternity testing and forensic testing operations, and if we fail to manage these consolidations, our business may suffer. We currently are consolidating our US laboratory testing facilities. On October 20, 2009, we announced the consolidation of our East Lansing, Michigan paternity testing operations into our Dayton, Ohio facility. We expect to complete this consolidation and close our East Lansing facility by July 1, 2010. On January 14, 2010, we announced the consolidation of our Nashville, Tennessee forensic DNA testing facility to our Dallas, Texas facility. We expect to complete this consolidation and close our Nashville facility by August 31, 2010. We believe these consolidations may lead to additional operational efficiencies, plant and equipment cost reductions and increased scalability. We currently expect to incur cash expenditures in connection with these consolidations of $1.8 million to $2.3 million in the aggregate. These consolidations could strain our operational, human and financial resources. If we fail to properly manage these consolidations, our results of operations and financial condition might be adversely affected. Consolidating facilities also includes transferring certain customer work from one facility to another. A failure to properly manage these customer transfers could result in the loss of business. In order to manage these consolidations, we must: • successfully integrate additional work at our existing paternity testing and forensic testing facilities; • successfully integrate new and transferring employees into our expanded testing facilities in Dayton, Ohio and Dallas, Texas; • continue to improve operating efficiencies; • successfully transfer customer work from our East Lansing Michigan facility to our Dayton, Ohio facility and from our Nashville, Tennessee facility to our Dallas, Texas facility; • successfully expand our Dallas, Texas facility to establish a dedicated CODIS laboratory that is accredited and capable of full production testing; and • successfully attract additional technical personnel for our testing facilities in Dayton, Ohio and Dallas, Texas. 12 Table of Contents We currently are building a new CODIS laboratory at our Dallas, Texas facility, and if we fail to properly manage the establishment of this new laboratory, our business may suffer. As part of the consolidation of our US forensic testing laboratories, we are establishing a new CODIS laboratory in our Dallas, Texas facility. We have leased additional space at our Dallas location and will need to make certain capital expenditures to build this new laboratory. If we fail to properly manage the establishment of this new CODIS laboratory, our results of operations and financial condition might be adversely affected. In order to manage the establishment of this new CODIS laboratory, we must: • successfully transfer laboratory personnel from our Nashville facility to the Dallas facility; • successfully hire additional laboratory personnel for this new facility; • successfully procure and install laboratory equipment in the new CODIS facility; • successfully validate our CODIS processes for the new laboratory; and • successfully gain applicable forensic accreditations. If we fail to build this new facility on a timely basis or fail to obtain the proper forensic accreditations, our business might be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with industry regulations and accreditations, we may not be able to provide certain services at our laboratories. All of our laboratory facilities must comply with various industry regulations and accreditation standards in order to continue to provide our paternity testing, forensic casework testing and CODIS testing. For example, our paternity laboratories in the U.S. have obtained accreditation from the AABB in order to provide paternity testing, and our forensic laboratories in the U.S. are accredited by from ASCLD/LAB and NFSTC. In addition, our UK laboratory must maintain ISO 17025 accreditation in order to continue to provide forensic testing services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our accreditations with any of these authorities as requirements and standards may change from time to time. The loss of our accreditations could adversely affect our existing contracts which, in many cases, require that we maintain these accreditations, and could adversely affect our ability to enter into new contracts. As a result the loss of any such accreditation, our revenues could be eliminated or significantly reduced. Our testing activities also involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products, as well as the conveyance, processing and storage of biological specimens. If we were in violation of any laws or regulations pertaining to the handling or use of hazardous materials, the remediation costs could be significant and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We currently rely primarily on a single supplier for the majority of reagents and other components we need for the performance of our DNA testing services. We utilize one supplier through which we purchase the majority of reagents and other components for use in our DNA testing services. In the event that we are unable to obtain supplies from this supplier, we do have the ability to purchase reagents and components from other suppliers. However, if we had to switch to a different supplier or multiple suppliers, we would be required to obtain the approval of certain of our customers and we also may be required to change the instruments on which we perform DNA testing services, which could require significant capital investment. In addition, we receive and expect to continue to receive substantial discounts based upon reaching a specific threshold of purchases per year of reagents and other components from our current supplier. If we fail to reach the required threshold of purchases in any one year, our future discounts on purchases of reagents and other components from our current supplier would decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our future sales and marketing efforts may not be successful in achieving revenue growth. We plan to continue to market our services to governmental agencies, commercial companies and private individuals. Our ability to successfully obtain new business, and where appropriate, enter into and maintain agreements with our customers, depends in part on the quality and pricing of our services. If we are unable to successfully implement our marketing plans, fail to maintain or enhance the quality of our services, or fail to offer attractive pricing for our services, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have limited sales and marketing resources, and as a result, we may not achieve our expected levels of revenue. We currently have limited sales and marketing resources and we are subject to the possibility that our competitors may recruit our employees. As of December 31, 2009, only one of our key sales and marketing employees had an employment contract with us. We also do not maintain key man life insurance policies for any of our key sales and marketing employees. Our sales and marketing resources are used to market our services to governmental agencies, commercial companies and private individuals. If our limited sales and marketing resources become inadequate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions or mergers could disrupt our ongoing operations, increase our expenses and adversely affect our revenues. Although we have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions or mergers at present, we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may be accomplished either by acquiring or merging with existing businesses. Factors that will affect the success of any potential acquisition or merger to be made by us include our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively, to motivate personnel and to retain customers of acquired or merged businesses. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or merger opportunities, obtain necessary financing for an acquisition on acceptable terms or successfully integrate acquired personnel and operations. While we have not experienced material disruption to our ongoing business or distraction to our management and employees as a result of past acquisitions, we may experience such disruptions or distractions in the future. We had an accumulated deficit of $326 million as of December 31, 2009. If we fail to reach profitability and need to raise additional capital to fund our current and future operating plans or obtain such capital on unfavorable terms, then we may have to take further cost-cutting measures. We have expended significant resources developing our facilities and funding commercialization activities. As a result, we have incurred significant losses to date. We had net losses of $1.5 million, $4.5 million and $3.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We anticipate that our existing cash on hand will be sufficient to fund our operations at least through the next twelve months. If we fail to reach cash flow self sufficiency, however, we may need to raise additional funds through the sale of equity, convertible debt or equity-linked securities and we may have to further review our existing operations to determine new cost cutting measures, such as further consolidation of operational facilities and reductions in staff. We may not be able to raise additional funds or raise funds on terms that are acceptable to us. If financing is not available to us in the future, or is not available on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to fund our future operating needs. If we raise funds through equity or convertible securities, our stockholders may experience dilution and our stock price may decline. We may be held liable for any inaccuracies associated with our services, which may require us to defend ourselves in costly litigation. We provide forensic, family relationship and agricultural testing services. Claims may be brought against us for incorrect identification of family relationships or other inaccuracies. Litigation of these claims in most cases 14 Table of Contents is covered by our existing insurance policies. However, we could expend significant funds during any litigation proceeding brought against us and litigation can be a distraction to management and our operations. If a court were to require us to pay damages that are not covered by our existing insurance policies, the amount of such damages could significantly harm our financial condition, and even if covered, damages could exceed our insurance policy coverage limits. Our current professional liability insurance policy contains a maximum coverage limitation of $10 million. We have been named a defendant in a number of minor suits relating to our DNA testing services, including claims of incorrect results. However, none of the outcomes of these suits have had a material adverse effect on our business to date. Our improvement of existing technologies and our ability to capture and develop future technologies to be utilized in our service offerings may not be commercially successful, which could adversely affect our revenues. We are currently developing and commercializing a limited number of services based on our technologies in DNA testing of humans and for agricultural purposes. These services involve uses of products, software and technologies that require validation for commercial application, and we cannot assure you that we or our customers will be able to recognize a cost-effective, commercial benefit in using our technology. In addition, any assays we develop utilizing SNP analysis technology may not be useful in assisting in food safety testing. Only a limited number of companies have developed or commercialized services based on SNP technology to date. Accordingly, even if we or our customers are successful in developing effective assays utilizing SNP technology for food safety testing, we cannot assure you that these discoveries will lead to commercially successful service offerings. If we fail to successfully develop our SNP technologies or any services based on such technologies, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market. We may be unable to hire an adequate number of DNA analysts or successfully apply new technology. Our growth and future operating results will depend, in part, upon our ability to recruit an adequate number of trained DNA analysts. Our growth and future operating results will also depend, in part, upon our ability to apply new technologies to automate and improve our DNA testing services to take advantage of new technologies. There can be no assurance that our development efforts will result in any additional commercially viable or successful improvements or efficiencies to our testing processes. Any potential improvements to the testing process may require substantial additional investment and possibly regulatory approvals, prior to implementation. Our inability to recruit trained DNA analysts, attract laboratory personnel for our expanded facility in Dallas, Texas, develop improvements to our testing processes, increase efficiencies, or achieve market acceptance of such improvements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to provide services may be seriously impaired by the occurrence of a natural disaster affecting any one or more of our laboratories. Should we experience the occurrence of a natural disaster affecting one or more of our laboratories such that we would be unable to continue to provide services out of a particular facility for an extended period of time, and we were not able to scale up operations at our other facilities in order to continue to provide such services, we would be at risk of losing significant contractual revenue from governmental agencies. Many of our governmental agency contracts allow for the agency to terminate the contract early if we become unable to continue to render such services for an extended period of time, usually 90 days or more, for any reason, including the occurrence of a natural disaster. While we have multiple facilities, and may be able to shift operations from one facility to another in the event of a natural disaster, thereby mitigating the effects thereof, we cannot assure you that any such transition will occur or be successful, particularly in light of our ongoing consolidation of our US facilities. 15 Table of Contents Although we carry insurance for recovery in the instance of a natural disaster, the limits of this insurance are $24 million, and it is possible that our coverage will not be the same in all locations or that a loss in such an instance could exceed our ability to recover such costs. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others. We may be sued for infringing, or may initiate litigation to determine that we are not infringing, on the intellectual property rights of others. Intellectual property litigation is costly, and could adversely affect our results of operations. If we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation, we might have to pay damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity, or be required to obtain a license to or design around the intellectual property in question. If we are unable to obtain a required license on acceptable terms, or are unable to practice non-infringing technologies or processes, we may be unable to sell some of our services, which would result in reduced revenues. We are named a defendant in a patent litigation matter. However, we believe we had the right to practice such technology by virtue of a third-party agreement, and we are actively engaged in defending this litigation. Other than the foregoing, we are not aware of any assertions that we are misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others. The scope of our issued patents may not provide us with adequate protection of our intellectual property, which would harm our competitive position. Any issued patents that cover our proprietary technologies may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial to us. In addition, we may not be able to obtain new patents for technologies and services material to our business. The issuance of a patent may be challenged with respect to its validity or its enforceability. The US Patent and Trademark Office (or a court of appropriate jurisdiction), or any one of a number of foreign patent offices where we have pursued patent protection, may invalidate one or more of our patents. In addition, third parties may have patents of their own which could, if asserted, prevent us from practicing our proprietary technologies, including the methods we use to conduct DNA testing. If we are otherwise unable to practice our patented technologies, we may not be able to commercialize our technologies or services. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, which could result in the forfeiture of these rights. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may need to initiate patent litigation against third parties. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These lawsuits could result in the invalidation or a limitation in the scope of our patents or forfeiture of the rights associated with our patents. We cannot assure you that we will prevail in any future litigation or that a court will not find damages or award other remedies in favor of the opposing party in any of these suits. We also may not have the resources to aggressively protect and enforce existing protection. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Other rights and measures that we rely upon to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to protect our services and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. While we require employees, collaborators, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: • the agreements may be breached; 16 Table of Contents • we may have inadequate remedies for any breach; • proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or • others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. To our knowledge, we have never been materially harmed by a breach under any of the circumstances listed above. However, if our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm both our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. The pursuit of a remedy for such an alleged breach may require a substantial amount of our resources, time, effort and expenses. We may be required to record additional significant charges to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the US, we review our goodwill for impairment each year as of December 31 and when certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our goodwill may not be recoverable, we must record a charge against our earnings for the period in question. Our goodwill may become impaired due to factors such as a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Estimates of future cash flows are based on long-term financial forecasts of our operations, which are subject to change if actual results differ materially from the estimates. If we are required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill is determined to exist, our results of operations for the period would be negatively impacted. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax benefits may be limited. As of December 31, 2009, we had $250.0 million and $66.2 million of federal and state net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards, respectively, available to offset future taxable income. Some of our federal and state NOL carryforwards have begun to expire. Utilization of our NOL carryforwards to offset future taxable income, if any, may be substantially limited due to the “change of ownership” provisions in the Tax Reform Act of 1986, or the Act. The Act provides for a limitation on the annual use of NOL carryforwards and research and development credits following certain ownership changes, as defined by the Act, which could significantly limit our ability to utilize or sell these carryforwards and research and development credits. We have determined that an ownership change, as defined by the Act, occurred in 1999 and as a result $41.4 million of our NOL carryforwards are limited. We may have experienced other ownership changes as a result of past financings and may experience others in connection with future financings. Accordingly, our ability to utilize the aforementioned federal NOL carryforwards may be further limited. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Future issuance of our securities may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, preferences, privileges and other terms of those shares. Our Board of Directors may exercise this authority without any further approval of our stockholders. Additionally, if we need to raise additional funds through the sale of equity, convertible debt or equity-linked securities, your percentage ownership in us on a diluted basis will be reduced. These transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may also issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. There are a limited number of stockholders who have significant control over our common stock, allowing them to have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, which may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Four of our principal stockholders (stockholders owning 5% or more of our common stock) beneficially owned approximately 41% of the outstanding shares of common stock at December 31, 2009, and such 17 Table of Contents stockholders will have significant influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions. In addition, such influence by these stockholders could have the effect of delaying or impeding a change in control and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock. We have various mechanisms in place that stockholders may not consider favorable, which may discourage takeover attempts and may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change our direction or management. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our adoption of a stockholder rights plan, may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control or the ability of stockholders to change our direction or management, even if the changes would be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be designated and issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • create a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our Board of Directors; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which will allow a majority of stockholders to control the election of all directors; • require super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of our common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. The rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are generally exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Our stock price has been, and likely will continue to be, volatile and your investment may suffer a decline in value. The market prices for securities of companies quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, including our market price, have in the past been, and are likely to continue in the future to be, very volatile. Between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2009, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.47 to a high of $5.50. The market price of our common stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to substantial volatility depending upon many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • announcements regarding the results of development efforts by us or our competitors; • announcements regarding the acquisition of technologies or companies by us or our competitors; • changes in our existing development or licensing arrangements or formation of new development or licensing arrangements; • the loss of existing business; 18 Table of Contents • our inability to secure new contractual relationships for our DNA testing services or new volume of testing samples at acceptable prices; • technological innovations or new service offerings developed by us or our competitors; • changes in our intellectual property portfolio; • developments or disputes concerning our proprietary rights; • issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports and/or recommendations applicable to us; • additions or departures of our key personnel; • our operating losses; and • continued economic uncertainty with respect to the valuation of certain technology companies and other market conditions. The liquidity of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5810, we are required to have a minimum bid price of at least $1.00. The closing price of our common stock was below $1.00 per share from November 20, 2008 through April 29, 2009. The closing price of our common stock has remained above $1.00 per share since May 5, 2009 and we currently are in compliance with this listing requirement. On March 1, 2010, the closing price of our common stock was $1.42. There can be no assurance, however, that the closing price of our common stock will remain above $1.00 per share or that we will otherwise be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market. Delisting from NASDAQ would make trading our common stock more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in our share price. Without a NASDAQ listing, stockholders may have a difficult time getting a quote for the sale or purchase of our stock, the sale or purchase of our stock would likely be made more difficult and the trading volume and liquidity of our stock would likely decline. Delisting from NASDAQ would also result in negative publicity and would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. The absence of such a listing may adversely affect the acceptance of our common stock as currency or the value accorded it by other parties. Further, if we are delisted, we would also incur additional costs under state blue sky laws in connection with any sales of our securities. These requirements could severely limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of our stockholders to sell our common stock in the secondary market. If faced with delisting, we would have an opportunity to appeal NASDAQ’s determination or we may submit an application to transfer the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. Alternatively, if our common stock is delisted by NASDAQ, our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the pink sheets where an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. We cannot assure you that our common stock, if delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, will be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the OTC Bulletin Board or the pink sheets. If we are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market and we are not able to transfer the listing of our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock likely will become a “penny stock.” In general, regulations of the SEC define a “penny stock” to be an equity security that is not listed on a national securities exchange and that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock becomes a penny stock, additional sales practice requirements would be imposed on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than certain qualified investors. For transactions involving a penny stock, unless exempt, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. In addition, the rules on penny stocks 19 Table of Contents require delivery, prior to and after any penny stock transaction, of disclosures required by the SEC. If our common stock were subject to the rules on penny stocks, the market liquidity for our common stock could be severely and adversely affected. Accordingly, the ability of holders of our common stock to sell their shares in the secondary market may also be adversely affected. Fluctuations in our operating results may negatively impact our stock price. Our revenues and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and these fluctuations are likely to continue in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the timing of US federal funding for forensic DNA testing through the NIJ and that of state agencies; • our ability to secure new contractual relationships for forensic, family relationship and agricultural testing or retain existing relationships upon contract expirations; • the successful consolidation of our US operations; • the volume and timing of testing samples received in our laboratories for testing services; • the number of trained DNA analysts which are available to process the samples for testing services; • the number, timing and significance of new services introduced by our competitors; • our ability to develop, market and introduce new services on a timely basis; • our ability to maintain and grow the volume of forensic testing services in the UK through directly providing our services to UK police forces and winning awards under the National Procurement Plan; • changes in the cost, quality and availability of intellectual property and components required to perform our services; and • availability of commercial and government funding to researchers who use our services. Fixed operating costs associated with our technologies and services, as well as personnel costs, marketing and sales programs and overhead costs, account for a substantial portion of our operating expenses. We cannot adjust these expenses quickly in the short term. If our testing volumes and related pricing decline due to market pressure, our revenues will decline and we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses accordingly. Our loss of revenues and failure to reduce operating expenses would harm our operating results. In addition, market and other conditions may require certain non-cash charges such as impairment charges related to long-lived assets and restructuring charges to be recorded by us in future periods. If our operating results in any quarter or quarters fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock is likely to fall. We cannot assure you that your investment in our common stock will not fluctuate significantly. One or more of these factors or events could significantly harm our business and cause a decline in the price of our common stock in the public market. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 