ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should read carefully the following factors as well as the cautionary statements referred to in “Forward-Looking Statements” herein. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report actually occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Inherent in the Company’s Business The future prices for natural gas, oil and NGL are volatile, and a decline in such prices could adversely affect QEP’s results, stock price and growth plans. Historically natural gas, oil and NGL prices have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. U.S. natural gas prices in particular are significantly influenced by weather. Any significant or extended decline in commodity prices would impact the Company’s future financial condition, revenue, operating results, cash flow, return on invested capital, and rate of growth. In addition, significant and extended declines in commodity prices could limit QEP’s access to sources of capital or cause QEP to delay or postpone some of its capital projects. Because a significant portion of QEP Energy’s future production is natural gas, the Company’s financial results are substantially more sensitive to changes in natural gas prices than to changes in oil prices. QEP cannot predict the future price of natural gas, oil and NGL because of factors beyond its control, including but not limited to: • changes in domestic and foreign supply of natural gas, oil and NGL; • changes in local, regional, national and global demand for natural gas, oil, and NGL; • regional price differences resulting from available pipeline transportation capacity or local demand; • the level of imports of, and the price of, foreign natural gas, oil and NGL; domestic and global economic conditions; • the potential long-term impact of an abundance of natural gas from unconventional sources on the global gas supply; • domestic political developments; • weather conditions; • domestic government regulations and taxes; • technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; • conservation efforts; • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; • storage levels of natural gas, oil, and NGL; and • the quality of natural gas and oil produced. In addition, lower commodity prices may result in asset impairment charges from reductions in the carrying values of QEP’s natural gas and oil properties. The Company may not be able to economically find and develop new reserves. The Company’s profitability depends not only on prevailing prices for natural gas, oil and NGL, but also its ability to find, develop and acquire gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable. Producing natural gas and oil reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics. Because of the initial high-rate production decline profile of several of the Company’s producing areas, substantial capital expenditures are required to find, develop and acquire gas and oil reserves to replace those depleted by production. 13 Table of Contents Gas and oil reserve estimates are imprecise and subject to revision. QEP’s proved natural gas and oil reserve estimates are prepared annually by independent reservoir-engineering consultants. Gas and oil reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of these estimates depends on the quality of available data and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates are imprecise and will change as additional information becomes available. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves and future net cash flows prepared by different engineers, or by the same engineers at different times, may vary significantly. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. In addition, the estimation process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, operating costs, severance and other taxes, capital expenditures and remediation costs. Actual results most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance from these assumptions could affect the recoverable quantities of reserves attributable to any particular properties, the classifications of reserves, the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves and the present value of those reserves. Investors should not assume that QEP’s presentation of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves in this Annual Report is the current market value of the estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC disclosure rules, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from QEP’s proved reserves are based on the first-of-the-month prior 12-month average prices and current costs on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties and using a discount factor of 10 percent per year. Actual future prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the current estimate, and future determinations of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows using similarly determined prices and costs may be significantly different from the current estimate. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could impact results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages. There have also been regional shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for specialized rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. These cost increases could impact profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict the ability to drill wells and conduct operations, especially during periods of lower natural gas and oil prices. Operations involve numerous risks that might result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. Drilling of natural gas and oil wells is potentially a high-risk activity. Risks include: • fire, explosions and blow-outs; • unexpected drilling conditions such as abnormally pressured formations; • pipe, cement or casing failures; • pipeline accidents and failures; and • environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine water or well fluids (including groundwater contamination). The Company could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life; pollution or other environmental damage; damage to or destruction of property and equipment; regulatory investigation; fines or curtailment of operations; or attorney’s fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As a working interest owner in wells operated by other companies, the Company may also be exposed to the risks enumerated above that are not within its care, custody or control. There are also inherent operating risks and hazards in the Company’s gas and oil production and gas gathering, processing and treating operations that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in personal injury or loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, 14 Table of Contents impairment of operations and substantial losses. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Certain segments of the Company’s pipelines run through such areas. In spite of the Company’s precautions, an event could cause considerable harm to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect on the financial position and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in lost business activity. Such circumstances could adversely impact the Company’s ability to meet contractual obligations. As is customary in the gas and oil industry, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Although QEP believes the coverages and amounts of insurances that it carries are adequate and consistent with industry practice, QEP does not have insurance protection against all risks that it faces, because QEP chooses not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the costs of insurance and QEP’s desired rates of return, or actual losses exceed coverage limits. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on QEP’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disruption of, capacity constraints in, or proximity to pipeline systems could impact results of operations. QEP transports natural gas, crude oil and NGL to market by utilizing pipelines owned by others. If pipelines do not exist near producing wells, if pipeline capacity is limited or if pipeline capacity is unexpectedly disrupted, sales could be reduced or shut in, reducing profitability. If pipeline quality requirements change, the company might be required to install additional treating or processing equipment which could increase costs. QEP is dependent on its revolving credit facility and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. If QEP is unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, QEP may experience a decline in its natural gas and oil reserves. QEP is partially dependent on external capital sources to provide financing for certain projects. The availability and cost of these capital sources is cyclical, and these capital sources may not remain available, or the Company may not be able to obtain financing at a reasonable cost in the future. Over the last few years, conditions in the global capital markets have deteriorated, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and in certain cases, resulting in the unavailability of certain types of financing. If QEP’s revenues decline as a result of lower natural gas, oil and NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in production or for any other reason, QEP may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain its operations at current levels. The Company utilizes its revolving credit facility, provided by a group of financial institutions, to meet short-term funding needs. All of QEP’s debt under its revolving credit facility is floating-rate debt. From time to time, the Company may use interest-rate derivatives to fix the rate on a portion of its floating-rate debt. The interest rates on debt under the Company’s revolving credit facility are tied to QEP’s debt ratings which are published by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s. Under QEP’s revolving credit agreement, a downgrade of credit ratings will increase the interest cost of borrowings under the revolving credit facility. In addition, a downgrade of credit ratings may make it more difficult or expensive to raise capital from financial institutions or other sources. QEP’s failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of its operations relating to exploration and development of its prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible reduction in QEP’s natural gas or oil reserves and its revenues, and could negatively impact its results of operations. QEP is exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of QEP’s receivables and commodity derivative transactions. QEP has significant credit exposure to outstanding accounts receivable from joint interest and working interest owners as well as customers in all segments of its business. Because QEP is the operator on a majority of its large joint venture development projects, QEP pays joint venture expenses and makes cash calls on its non-operating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital intensive and, in some cases, a non-operating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs. Counterparty liquidity problems could result in a delay in QEP receiving proceeds from commodity sales or reimbursement of joint venture costs. Credit enhancements, such as financial guarantees or prepayments, have been obtained from some but not all parties. Nonperformance by a trade creditor or joint 15 Table of Contents venture partner could result in financial losses. In addition, QEP’s commodity derivative transactions expose it to risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. During periods of falling commodity prices, QEP’s hedge receivable positions increase, which increases its counterparty exposure. Risks Related to Strategy QEP’s use of derivative instruments to manage exposure to uncertain prices could result in financial losses or reduce its income. QEP uses commodity-price derivative arrangements to reduce, or hedge, exposure to volatile natural gas, oil, and NGL prices and to protect cash flow, returns on capital, net income and credit ratings from downward commodity price movements. To the extent the Company hedges commodity price exposure, it may forgo some or all of the benefits of commodity price increases. Additionally, there are proposed financial regulations which may change our reporting and margining requirements relating to such instruments. QEP enters into commodity-price derivative arrangements with creditworthy counterparties (banks and energy-trading firms) that do not require collateral deposits. QEP is exposed to the risk of counterparties not performing. The amount of credit available may vary depending on the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s debt securities. QEP faces significant competition and certain of its competitors have resources in excess of QEP’s available resources. QEP operates in the highly competitive areas of natural gas and oil exploration, exploitation, acquisition and production. QEP faces intense competition from: • large multi-national, integrated oil companies; • US independent oil and gas companies; • service companies engaging in oil and gas exploration and production activities; and • private oil and gas equity funds. QEP faces competition in a number of areas such as: • acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration; • marketing its natural gas, oil and NGL production; • acquiring the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop properties; and • attracting and retaining employees with certain skills. Certain of QEP’s competitors have financial and other resources in excess of those available to QEP. Such companies may be able to pay more for seismic and lease rights on natural gas and oil properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than QEP’s financial or human resources permit. This highly competitive environment could have an adverse impact on QEP’s business. QEP may be subject to risks in connection with acquisitions and organizational changes. The acquisition of gas and oil properties requires the assessment of recoverable reserves; future gas and oil sales prices and basis differentials; operating costs; and potential environmental and other liabilities. The accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. QEP may not be able to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Even if QEP does identify attractive opportunities, it may not be able to complete the acquisitions due to capital constraints. If QEP acquires an additional business, QEP could have difficulty integrating the operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology of the acquired business with QEP’s own, or could assume unidentified or unforeseeable liabilities, resulting in a loss of value. 16 Table of Contents Organizational modifications due to acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic changes can alter the risk and control environments, disrupt ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and adversely affect results of operations. Even if these challenges can be dealt with successfully, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, divestiture or other strategic change may not be realized. Failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our Company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. Risks Related to Regulation QEP is subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect its cost of doing business and recording of proved reserves. The Company is subject to federal, state and local tax, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and tend to become more onerous over time. In addition to the costs of compliance, substantial costs may be incurred to take corrective actions at both owned and previously-owned facilities. Accidental spills and leaks requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of business. As standards change, the Company may incur significant costs in cases where past operations followed practices that were considered acceptable at the time but now require remedial work to meet current standards. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in fines, significant costs for remedial activities, or injunctions. QEP must comply with numerous and complex federal and state regulations governing activities on federal and state lands, notably the National Environmental Policy Act, the Endangered Species Act, the Clean Air Act, and the National Historic Preservation Act and similar state laws. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat areas for certain listed threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The listing of certain species, such as the sage grouse, as threatened and endangered, could have a material impact on the Company’s operations in areas where such species are found. The Clean Water Act and similar state laws regulate discharges of storm water, wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, wetlands, and streams. Failure to obtain permits for such discharges could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, and other costs and damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. Federal and state regulatory agencies frequently impose conditions on the Company’s activities. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent exploration and production on the Company’s leasehold. Certain environmental groups oppose drilling on some of QEP’s federal and state leases. These groups sometimes sue federal and state regulatory agencies for alleged procedural violations in an attempt to stop, limit or delay natural gas and oil development on public lands. In addition, the Company is subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right-to-know statutes and regulations such as the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act that require certain record keeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances. 17 Table of Contents Various federal agencies within the U.S. Department of the Interior, particularly the Bureau of Land Management and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, along with potentially each Native American tribe, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to gas and oil operations on Native American tribal lands. These regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, environmental standards and royalty considerations. In addition, under prevailing legal precedent each Native American tribe has limited attributes of sovereignty including the right to enforce laws and regulations independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations so long as not inconsistent with federal law and regulation. These tribal laws and regulations include various taxes, fees, requirements to employ Native American tribal members and other conditions that apply to lessees, operators and contractors conducting operations on Native American tribal lands. Lessees and operators conducting operations on tribal lands may be subject to the Native American tribal court system. One or more of these factors may increase the Company’s costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and have an impact on the viability of its gas and oil exploration, production, gathering, processing and transportation operations on such lands. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates interstate natural gas transportation and oversees natural gas marketing. FERC has issued a number of orders related to market transparency (e.g., price reporting indices, capacity release, standards of conduct, transportation capacity, general compliance) that extend FERC oversight to QEP. Since the enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, granting FERC increased penalty authority for non compliance, FERC has targeted various issues in the natural gas industry for compliance audits and investigations. QEP owns three facilities that are directly regulated by FERC as either an interstate pipeline or a natural gas storage facility connected to interstate pipelines. QEP may not be able to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to continue and expand its operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of the Company’s exploration and production and midstream field services operations. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise seek to influence the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, needed permits may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict QEP’s ability to conduct its operations or to do so profitably. QEP may incur more taxes if certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development are eliminated as a result of future legislation. Our activities are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local tax laws and regulations and government agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service. The need to comply with new or revised tax laws or regulations, or new or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing tax laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Federal budget proposals could potentially increase and accelerate the payment of federal income taxes for independent producers of natural gas and oil. The repeal of expensing of intangible drilling costs, percentage of depletion allowance and increased amortization periods for geological and geophysical expenses are some of the proposals that would have a significant impact on us. If enacted, these changes will increase the cost of exploration and development of natural gas and oil resources. Federal or state hydraulic fracturing legislation could increase QEP’s costs and restrict its access to natural gas and oil reserves. All wells drilled in tight gas sand and shale reservoirs require hydraulic fracture stimulation to achieve economic production rates and recoverable reserves. A significant portion of the Company’s current and future production and reserve potential is derived from reservoirs that require hydraulic fracture stimulation to be commercially viable. Hydraulic fracture stimulation involves pumping fluid at high pressure into tight sand or shale reservoirs to artificially induce fractures. The artificially induced fractures allow better connection between the wellbore and the surrounding reservoir rock, thereby enhancing productive capacity and ultimate hydrocarbon recovery of each well. The fracture stimulation fluid is typically comprised of over 99 percent water and sand, with the remaining constituents consisting of additives designed to optimize the fracture stimulation treatment and production from the reservoir. The Company does not use diesel fuel in any of its fracturing 18 Table of Contents operations. QEP obtains water for fracture stimulations from a variety of sources including industrial water wells and surface sources. When technically and economically feasible, the Company recycles flow-back and produced water, which reduces water consumption from surface and groundwater sources. The Company believes that the employment of fracture stimulation technology does not present any unique risks other than the inherent risks associated with natural gas and oil drilling and production operations described above. Currently, all well construction activities, including hydraulic fracture stimulation, are regulated by state agencies that review and approve all aspects of gas and oil well design and operation. New environmental initiatives, proposed federal and state legislation and rulemaking pertaining to hydraulic fracture stimulation could include additional permitting, and reporting and disclosure requirements and potential restrictions on the use of hydraulic fracture stimulation that could materially affect the Company’s ability to develop and produce gas and oil reserves. The adoption of greenhouse gas emission or other environmental legislation could result in increased operating costs, delays in obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduced demand for the natural gas, oil and NGL that QEP produces. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of climate-change regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development, and greenhouse gas emissions. QEP’s ability to access and develop new natural gas reserves may be restricted by climate-change regulation. In recent legislative sessions bills have been pending in Congress that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to buy allowances for offsets of emissions of greenhouse gases. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has adopted final regulations for the measurement and reporting of greenhouse gases emitted from certain large facilities (25,000 tons/year of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent) beginning with operations in 2010. The first report is to be filed with the EPA by March 31, 2011. In addition, several of the states in which QEP operates are considering various greenhouse gas registration and reduction programs. Carbon dioxide regulation could increase the price of natural gas, restrict access to or the use of natural gas, and/or reduce natural gas demand. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for natural gas. While future climate-change regulation is possible, it is too early to predict how such regulation would affect QEP’s business, operations or financial results. It is uncertain whether QEP’s operations and properties, located in the Rocky Mountain and Midcontinent regions of the United States, are exposed to possible physical risks, such as severe weather patterns, due to climate change that may or may not be the result of man-made greenhouse gases. However, management does not believe such physical risks are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the company’s financial condition or results of operations. Derivatives regulation could increase QEP’s liquidity risks by restricting its use of derivative instruments. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), which was passed by Congress and signed into law in July 2010, contains significant derivatives regulation, including a requirement that certain derivative transactions be cleared on exchanges, a requirement to post cash collateral (commonly referred to as “margin”) for such derivative transactions, and strong business conduct standards. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a potential exception from clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users. The availability of this “end-user exemption” depends on how the Commodities Futures and Trading Commission (CFTC) defines a number of terms that will be used in determining how this exception applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. The CFTC is in the process of proposing definitions to determine which entities will face additional requirements for clearing, trading and posting of margin. Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, the Dodd-Frank Act could require that QEP post significant amounts of cash collateral with its dealer counterparties for QEP’s derivative transactions. A sudden, unexpected margin call triggered by rising commodity prices would have an immediate negative impact on QEP’s liquidity, forcing QEP to divert capital from exploration, development and production activities. Requirements to post cash collateral could not only cause significant liquidity issues by reducing the Company’s flexibility in using its cash and other sources of funds, such as its revolving credit facility, but could also cause QEP to incur additional debt. In addition, a requirement for QEP’s counterparties to post cash collateral would likely result in additional costs being passed on to QEP, thereby decreasing the effectiveness of its commodity 19 Table of Contents derivatives and its profitability. If the costs of complying with the clearing and margin requirements and business conduct rules under the Dodd-Frank Act significantly increase the costs of entering into commodity derivative transactions, QEP may reduce its commodity derivative program, which could increase its exposure to fluctuating commodity prices. Other Risks General economic and other conditions impact QEP’s results. QEP’s results may also be negatively affected by: changes in global economic conditions; changes in regulation; availability and economic viability of gas and oil properties for sale or exploration; creditworthiness of counterparties; rate of inflation and interest rates; assumptions used in business combinations; weather and natural disasters; changes in customers’ credit ratings; competition from other forms of energy, other pipelines and storage facilities; effects of accounting policies issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; terrorist attacks or acts of war; changes in business or financial condition; changes in credit ratings; and availability of financing for QEP. The underfunded status of our pension plans may require large contributions which may divert funds from other uses. Approximately one-quarter of our employees participate in defined benefit pension plans, although effective January 1, 1997, we closed participation in the QEP Retirement Plan. Over time, periods of declines in interest rates and pension asset values may result in a reduction in the funded status of our pension plans. As of December 31, 2010, our pension plans were $47.1 million underfunded. The underfunded status of our pension plans may require us to make large contributions to such plans. We made cash contributions of $1.6 million in 2010 to our defined benefit pension plans and expect to make contributions of approximately $11.9 million to such plans in 2011. However, we cannot predict whether changing economic conditions, the future performance of assets in the plans or other factors will require us to make contributions in excess of our current expectations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 20 Table of Contents 