Risk Factors.” Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had a total of 178 employees worldwide, including 93 in research and development, 38 in sales and marketing and 47 in operations, finance and administration. Of these employees, 105 were located in the United States. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our success depends on the growth of the cable, digital TV and automotive markets generally and the demand for RF products within these markets specifically. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of RF products into markets related to cable, digital TV and automotive applications or devices. These markets are characterized by: • intense competition; • rapid technological change; • long design cycles; and • short product life cycles, especially in the PC and consumer electronics markets. The cable, digital TV and automotive markets may not grow in the future as anticipated, if at all, or a significant market slowdown may occur. Further, demand for applications or devices that include our products, in particular, cable set-top boxes; high-speed cable data modems; high-speed cable voice modems enabling cable based digital phone services; car audio, video and antenna amplifier systems; digital/analog TVs, including high-definition TVs; PC/TV multimedia products and mobile TVs may not grow at a rate sufficient for us to sustain profitability, or our customers’ market share may decline, even though demand in general is high, which would also adversely affect our financial results. In addition, since the mobile TV market segment is a new market, and its development is subject to many contingencies and unknowns, it may develop much slower than currently expected or it may not develop at all. Because of the intense competition in the cable, digital TV and automotive markets, the unproven technology of many products addressing these markets and the short product life cycles of many consumer applications or devices, it is difficult to predict the potential size and future growth rate of the markets for our RF products. In addition, the cable, digital TV and automotive markets are transitioning from analog to digital, as well as expanding to new services, such as interactive television, mobile TV and on-demand services. The future growth of our RF product markets is dependent upon market acceptance of our customers’ applications and devices, incorporating our RF technology, that address the cable, digital TV and automotive markets, and we cannot assure you that our customers’ products and consequently, our underlying RF technology, will be accepted by any of the end customers in these markets. If the demand for our RF products is not as great as we expect, if we are unable to produce competitive products to meet that demand or if we are otherwise unable to capitalize on market opportunities, we may not be able to generate revenue growth or profitability. Market specific risks affecting the mobile TV market segment within the digital TV market could impair our ability to compete successfully in this new market segment. The market for mobile TV is new and is characterized by various market-specific risks, any of which may adversely affect our ability to compete in this new market segment. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Examples of market-specific risks affecting the mobile TV market segment include: • the risk that the mobile TV market segment may develop more slowly than expected or not develop at all; • the risk that we will fail to achieve or continue to achieve design wins with major cell phone manufacturers; • the risk that we will fail to effectively partner with strategic demodulator partners who are necessary to effectively market our products and secure design wins with major cell phone manufacturers or that even if we are initially successful in partnering with such strategic demodulator partners, that they will develop or market their own tuner, system in package (SIP) or system on chip (SOC) mobile TV solutions rather than continuing to market our joint solution; • the risk that other companies with more focused engineering efforts will compete effectively against us; • the risk that we may overallocate our engineering resources to the development of mobile TV products, only to fail to penetrate this market segment and consequently, harm other areas of our product development; • the risk that even if we are successful initially, we may have difficulty sustaining our market position as the mobile TV market segment will likely be highly competitive with extreme pricing pressure and price erosion; • the risk that solutions that integrate the tuner and demodulator on one chip (SOC) or in one package (SIP) will be more compelling to potential customers than our discrete silicon tuner solutions; • the risk that SIP or SOC solutions will be adopted as the preferred implementation by mobile phone manufacturers and we will fail to successfully partner with a demodulator manufacturer to support a SIP or SOC solution; • the risk that tuners fabricated in CMOS to enable or to aid integration with the CMOS demodulator in a SIP or SOC solution will be favored over our tuner solutions fabricated in SiGe; and • the risk that broadcasting formats such as MediaFLO™ that our products do not currently support will gain greater acceptance than DVB-H and possibly become the universally adopted standard in the mobile TV market segment. To the extent our efforts to penetrate the mobile TV market segment are adversely affected by any of these risks or are otherwise unsuccessful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Market-specific risks affecting the television, digital converter box and television peripheral market segment of the digital TV market could impair our ability to compete successfully in that market. The market for digital TV applications in televisions, digital converter boxes and television peripherals is characterized by various market-specific risks, any of which may adversely affect our ability to compete in that market. Examples of market-specific risks affecting this market segment include: • the risk that module tuners that offer the same or similar functionality as our silicon tuner solutions will continue to be used by OEMs and will be viewed as more attractive by our current and potential customers; • the risk that module tuners that offer the same or similar functionality as our silicon tuner solutions will be sold at lower prices than our silicon tuner solutions; • the risk that we will be unable to develop silicon tuners that meet the performance requirements of our customers; 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • risks related to systems integration and other risks inherent in the highly complex design-in process of the products designed to address this market; • the risk that module products implementing our silicon tuners will not be selected by potential end customers due to the economics of the entire module solution where other components are unattractively priced; • the risk that our products will not have the feature set desired by our customers or will not be architecturally compatible with other components in the customers’ designs; and • the risk that an influx of entrants into the digital TV market due to a faster than expected transition to all digital will accelerate average selling price erosion. Our efforts to penetrate the digital TV market, in particular, will depend on our ability to overcome the challenges described above and upon eventual acceptance of our new digital TV products, such as the MT2131. To the extent our efforts are adversely affected by any of these risks or are otherwise unsuccessful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Other solutions for the cable, digital TV and automotive markets compete with some of our solutions. If these solutions prove to be more reliable, faster, less expensive or more popular than our solutions, the demand for our RF products and our revenue may decrease. Some of our target market segments, such as cable modem and cable telephony services, are competing with a variety of non-RF based broadband communications solutions, including digital subscriber line (DSL) technology and certain fiber to the home solutions. Many of these technologies compete effectively with cable modem and cable telephony services and do not require RF tuners like the ones that we sell. If any of these competing technologies are, or are perceived to be, more reliable, faster, less expensive, able to reach more customers or have other advantages over RF broadband technology, the demand for our RF products may decrease, which would cause our revenue to decrease accordingly. Also, some of the consumer devices that currently incorporate our RF products, e.g., TV’s, may not use our tuners or other products we sell in the future. Such changes in device features or functionality could adversely affect our financial results and business prospects. We operate in an intensely competitive business and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and operating flexibility, which allow them to compete effectively against us in existing markets and may affect our ability to enter or effectively compete in new markets. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our RF products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover research and development and manufacturing costs. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We compete with, or may in the future compete with, a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuit and system modules in the cable, digital TV and automotive markets. We compete primarily with Alps, Anadigics, Broadcom, DiBcom, Freescale, LG Innotek, Mitsumi, Panasonic, Philips Electronics, RF Magic, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, Sanshin, Siano, Texas Instruments, Thomson and Xceive. Average selling prices for products offered by competitor tuner module manufacturers continue to erode substantially, causing our silicon product offerings to be less attractive to potential customers and further limiting our design win opportunities, especially in the digital TV market. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: • longer operating histories and established market positions in key markets; • greater name recognition; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • access to larger customer bases; • significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, management, technical and other resources; • existing relationships with potential customers as a result of the sales of other components, which can be leveraged into sales of products competitive with our RF products; • existing relationships with partners in joint ventures or investing activities, which can be leveraged into sales of products competitive with our RF products; and • broader product and service offerings that may allow them to compete effectively by bundling their tuner products with their other products and services, by legal or illegal means. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products which may harm our current market position and impact our ability to enter or compete effectively in new markets. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets, our gross margins may fail to increase or may decline, and we may experience other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is highly dependent on our relationships with our strategic demodulator partners. Our RF products are designed to be interoperable with various specific demodulator integrated circuit products that are designed and manufactured by other companies. Historically, we have relied on informal strategic relationships with various demodulator manufacturers to enable both parties to offer an interoperable tuner/demodulator solution to our mutual end customers. Although we work in concert with our third-party demodulator partners to complete highly functional reference designs, we have no control over our partners’ future product plans and product roadmaps and could be effectively designed out of future customer applications by the refusal of a demodulator partner to continue to support us. Likewise, our ability to acquire new customers is highly dependent on the cooperation of third-party demodulator manufacturers. If such third-party manufacturers decide to partner with our competitors or to provide their own tuner solution, we would effectively be prevented from selling our products to potential new customers. This risk is especially present in the mobile TV market segment, where there are currently few demodulator partners and many tuner competitors. Furthermore, our dependence on these third-party demodulator manufacturers often limits the strategic direction of the company. If we were to design products that were competitive with any of such demodulator manufacturers, they may choose to stop working with us. Our current principal demodulator partners are Texas Instruments in the cable modem market, ATI Technologies in the ATSC market and ST Microelectronics in the DVB-C market. In the mobile TV market, our tuner is currently marketed with a DiBcom demodulator, however, DiBcom has recently announced its plans to offer a SIP solution, incorporating its own internally developed RF silicon tuner. Texas Instruments is currently offering its own single chip integrated tuner and demodulator, the Hollywood chip, which will compete directly with our mobile TV tuner products and our joint solutions offered with our demodulator partners. If any of our current or prospective demodulator partners were to stop working with us in favor of other tuner manufacturers or in favor of deploying their own tuner products, we would be effectively designed out of current and potential customer’s products and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our future prospects. Industry participants may consolidate or establish financial or strategic relationships, adversely impacting our ability to compete in our markets. Consolidation by industry participants, such as acquisitions of our customers, suppliers or partners by our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by our customers, suppliers or partners, could result in 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements competitors with increased market share, larger customer bases, greater diversified product offerings and greater technological and marketing expertise, which would allow them to compete more effectively against us. Current and potential competitors may also gain such competitive advantages by establishing financial or strategic relationships with existing or potential customers, suppliers or other third-parties. These new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge rapidly and acquire significant market share. In addition, some of our suppliers or partners offer or may offer products that compete with our RF products. Further, we rely upon some of our partners for certain joint reference design and marketing activities and some of our products are incorporated in some of our partners’ reference designs that are provided to potential customers. Depending on the participants, industry consolidation or the formation of strategic relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations by reducing our ability to compete successfully in our current markets and the markets we are seeking to serve. We expect our quarterly results of operations to fluctuate. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect such results to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not in our control. These factors may include: • the timing, cancellation and rescheduling of significant customer orders; • the ability of our customers to procure the other necessary components for their end-products that utilize our products in order to conduct their operations; • pricing concessions on volume sales to particular customers for established time frames and our ability to respond to general downward pressure on the average selling prices of our products; • cyclical or seasonal slowdowns and general downturns in customer demand or related industry-wide increases in inventories; • our ability to predict our customers’ demand for our products, manage production and inventory levels in response to product life cycles and other factors and minimize the effects of obsolete or excessive inventory; • design wins and changes in our product and customer mix; • labor disputes at our subsystem module manufacturer’s facility in the Philippines or at any of our other subcontractors, which may cause temporary slowdowns or shutdowns of operations; • problems with our products that result in significant returns; • inadequate allocation of wafer, assembly or test capacity for our silicon products by our subcontractors and/or allocation of components used in our module products by our suppliers; • acts of terrorism or military action occurring anywhere in the world; and • acts of God or force majeure. It is likely that our quarterly results of operations will be adversely affected by one or more of the factors listed above, or other factors. If our future results of operations fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Because we depend on a few significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue, the loss or change in demand of a key customer would seriously harm our business. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers and we expect this trend to continue. The loss of any significant customer would significantly harm 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements our revenue. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their respective manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Scientific-Atlanta 22 % 16 % * Asuspower (1) 18 % 10 % * DaimlerChrysler * * 15 % World Peace Industrial — — 13 % Ten largest customers 74 % 63 % 60 % * Less than 10% of net revenue (1) Primarily for the benefit of ARRIS in 2005, and ARRIS and Terayon in 2004. Further, several existing and potential customers have substantial internal technological capabilities and could develop products internally that compete with or replace our products. A decision by any of our significant customers to internally design and manufacture products that compete with our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We believe that our future results of operations will continue to depend on the success of our largest customers, on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities and on our ability to diversify our customer base. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers very attractive prices on our products which could impact our overall pricing strategy. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer or a reduction in our sales to any key customer would harm our revenue and consequently our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties with respect to our RF products, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand for these products, we may incur excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin, or insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers, including our most significant customers, in terms of volume of sales. Our terms and conditions (which do not apply to some of our key customers) typically provide that our customers may cancel orders scheduled to ship outside 90 days. Further, our terms typically provide that customers may reschedule orders that are scheduled to ship outside 30 days, but customers typically are restricted to the number of days they can delay the ship date. However, we have permitted customers to cancel orders less than 90 days before the expected date of shipment and to re-schedule shipments less than 30 days before the expected date of shipment, with little or no penalty. We currently do not have the ability to accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. However, we place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, or at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The average selling price of our products will likely decrease over time. If the selling price reductions are greater than we expect, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Historically, the average selling price of our products has decreased over their lives. In addition, as the markets for RF integrated circuit and module products mature, we believe that it is likely that the average unit prices of our RF products will decrease in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions, competitive product bundling and a transition in our markets from higher priced module products to lower priced integrated circuits. To offset these decreases, we expect to primarily rely on achieving cost reductions for materials used in existing products and introducing new products that can either be sold at higher average selling prices or be manufactured with lower costs. Although we will seek to increase the sales of our higher margin products, our sales and product development efforts may not be successful and our new products may not achieve market acceptance. To the extent we are unable to reduce costs or sell our higher margin products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The sales cycle for our RF products is long, and we incur substantial non-recoverable expenses and devote significant resources to sales that may not be realized when anticipated, if at all. Our customers, and sometimes their customers, typically conduct significant evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures before they purchase our RF products. These evaluation processes are frequently lengthy and may range from three months to one year or more. As a result, we expend significant financial and human resources to develop customer relationships before we realize any revenue from these relationships. In fact, we may never realize any revenue from these efforts. In many situations, our customers design their products to specifically incorporate our RF products, and our RF products must be designed to meet their stringent specifications. This process can be complex and may require significant engineering, sales, marketing and management effort on our part. This process may also require significant engineering and testing by our customers and, if our customers do not have sufficient capabilities to complete the process, they may become dissatisfied with our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We customize a substantial portion of our RF subsystem module products to address our customers’ specific RF needs. If we do not sell our customer-specific products in large volumes, we may be unable to cover our fixed costs or may be left with substantial unsaleable inventory. We manufacture a substantial portion of our RF subsystem module products to address the unique needs of our individual customers. Frequent product introductions by systems manufacturers make our future success dependent on our ability to select development projects that will result in sufficient volumes to enable us to achieve manufacturing efficiencies to cover our fixed costs. Because some of our customer-specific RF module products are developed for unique applications, we expect that some of our current and future customer-specific RF module products may never be produced in sufficient volume to cover our fixed costs. In addition, if our customers fail to purchase these customized RF module products from us, we risk having substantial unsaleable inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product recall by a major customer could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally warrant our commercial products for a period of one year, and longer for automotive electronics products. If a customer experiences a problem with our products and subsequently returns our products to us in large quantities for rework, replacement, or refund, the cost to us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Some of our customers require us to sign “line down” clauses, liability clauses and/or intellectual property warranty and indemnification clauses. We are currently subject to “line down” clauses in contracts with certain customers. Such clauses require us to pay financial penalties if our failure to supply products in a timely manner causes the customer to slow down or stop their production. Such penalties could be large and, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to product liability clauses and/or intellectual property warranty and indemnification clauses in some of our customer contracts, and where we do not have contracts, we are subject to such default provisions in the relevant jurisdiction’s embodiment of the Uniform Commercial Code. Such clauses and warranties require us to pay financial penalties if we supply defective product, which results in financial damages to the customer, or to indemnify the customer for third-party actions based on the alleged infringement by our products of a third-party’s intellectual property. Such penalties or obligations could be large and, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to maintain or grow revenue from international sales could harm our financial results. Net revenue from outside of North America was 66%, 58% and 66% for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We plan to increase our international sales activities by adding international sales personnel, sales representatives or distributors. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot do so. Even if we are able to expand our international operations, we may not succeed in maintaining or increasing international market demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our revenues have historically come from our international customers, and, as a result, our business may be harmed by political and economic conditions in foreign markets and the challenges associated with operating internationally. Historically, revenues from international markets have represented the majority of our total revenues, We expect revenues from international markets to continue to represent the majority of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. International business activities involve certain risks, including: • difficulties involved in the staffing and management of our geographically dispersed operations; • longer sales cycles in certain countries, especially on initial entry into a new geographical market; • greater difficulty in evaluating a customer’s ability to pay, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and greater difficulty in the collection of past-due accounts; • general economic conditions in each country; • challenges associated with operating in diverse cultural and legal environments; • seasonal reductions in business activity specific to certain markets; • loss of revenues, property and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism and other political risks; • foreign taxes and the overlap of different tax structures, including modifications to the United States tax code as a result of international trade regulations; • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; • foreign technical standards; • import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; and • existence or adoption of laws and regulations affecting the operation and taxation of our business and the general business climate for foreign companies. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We extend credit to our customers, sometimes in large amounts, but there is no guarantee every customer will be able to pay our invoices when they become due. At various times, our accounts receivable is concentrated in a few customers. As part of our routine business, we extend credit to customers purchasing our products. At December 31, 2005, approximately 63% of our net accounts receivable were due from five of our customers. While our customers may have the ability to pay on the date of shipment or on the date credit is granted, their financial condition could change and there is no guarantee that customers will ever pay the invoices. Because all of our customers do not have the same credit terms, our outstanding accounts receivable balance can become concentrated in a smaller number of customers than our overall net revenue. This concentration can subject us to a higher financial risk. Our customers’ products are subject to governmental regulation. Governmental regulation could place constraints on our customers and consequently reduce their demand for our RF products. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has broad jurisdiction over several of our target markets in the United States Similar governmental agencies regulate our target markets in other countries. Although most of our products are not directly subject to current regulations of the FCC or any other federal or state communications regulatory agency, much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated is subject to direct government regulation. Accordingly, the effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may, in turn, impede sales of our products. For example, demand for our RF products will decrease if equipment incorporating our products fails to comply with FCC emissions specifications. Our dependence on a single manufacturing facility and a single subcontractor for almost all of our subsystem module solutions could jeopardize our operations. In June 2005, we completed the transition of our outsourced subsystem module solutions manufacturing operations from TFS to Ionics EMS, Inc. The majority of our subsystem module solutions manufacturing operations are now subcontracted to Ionics. Such operations are conducted at a single facility in Manila, Philippines. Despite the transition of our manufacturing operations to Ionics, we are still exposed to manufacturing risks as a result of our dependence on a single manufacturing facility and a single sub-contractor for our subsystem module solutions. Such risks include lack of control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and fabrication costs and the risk of material supply disruptions due to labor disputes, terrorism, political unrest, war, process abnormalities, human error, theft, government intervention, or a natural disaster such as a fire, earthquake, or flood. If we encounter any significant delays or disruptions, including those caused by our subcontractor’s inability to procure component parts or supply us with product, we may not be able to meet our manufacturing and testing requirements, which could cause a significant delay in our ability to deliver our products, resulting in losses and potential enforcement of contractual “line down” clauses by customers, subjecting us to high litigation costs and settlement payments. Additionally, our subcontractor could elect to close its production facility or require us to move to another production facility or subcontractor. Any resulting delay could result in increased expense and costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on third-party wafer subcontractors to manufacture all of our integrated circuit products, which reduces our control over the integrated circuit manufacturing process and could increase costs and decrease the availability of our integrated circuit products. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. We primarily rely on IBM and X-FAB, outside subcontractors, to produce most of our RF integrated circuit products. Our reliance on third-party 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements suppliers involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and fabrication costs and the risk of material supply disruptions. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with our subcontractors and instead obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis. Our subcontractors have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements represent a small portion of the total production capacity of these subcontractors, and they may reallocate capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our integrated circuits. If our subcontractors were unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our integrated circuits, our business would be materially adversely affected. In such an event, we would be required to identify and qualify substitute subcontractors, which would be time consuming and difficult, and may result in unforeseen manufacturing and operational problems. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases, our product costs may increase, and we may be required to pay significant amounts to secure access to manufacturing services. If we do not qualify or receive supplies from additional subcontractors, we may be exposed to increased risk of capacity shortages due to our dependence on IBM and X-FAB. In addition, the processing of our integrated circuit products are specific to the manufacturing processes of one or the other of our two suppliers and substantial lead-time would be required to move the specific product to the other supplier, if it were possible at all. Further, our customers may limit their purchases from us unless a second manufacturing source is developed, which could impact our sales. We will begin using Jazz Semiconductor as an alternate source in the future for certain of our integrated circuit products, however, there can be no assurance that the establishment of a second manufacturing source would successfully mitigate the risks identified above. We depend on third-party subcontractors for integrated circuit probing, packaging and testing, which reduces our control over these processes and could result in increased costs and decreased availability of our integrated circuit products. Our integrated circuit products are probed, packaged, and/or tested by independent subcontractors, including Amkor, ASE, ISE and Criteria Labs, using facilities located in South Korea, Philippines, and Austin, Texas. We do not have long-term agreements with these subcontractors and typically obtain services from them on a purchase order basis. Furthermore, our subcontractors are dependent on certain third-party test equipment manufacturers. Our reliance on these subcontractors and on certain third-party test equipment manufacturers involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. Our reliance on Criteria Labs involves additional risk due to its recent emergence from bankruptcy proceedings. These risks could result in product shortages or increase our costs of probing, packaging and testing our products. If these subcontractors are unable or unwilling to continue to provide probing, packaging and testing services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. In such an event, we would be required to identify and qualify substitute subcontractors, which could be time consuming and difficult and may result in unforeseen operational problems. If our customers do not qualify our products or the manufacturing lines of our third-party suppliers for volume shipments, our revenue may be delayed or reduced. Some customers will not purchase any of our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing lines for the product. We may not always be able to satisfy the qualifications. Delays or failure to qualify can cause a customer to discontinue use of our products and result in a significant loss of revenue. If we change third-party suppliers, customers may require us to qualify the new supplier’s facility, or a product manufactured by that facility. We believe that transitioning our silicon products to newer or better manufacturing process technologies will be important to our future competitive position. If we fail to make this transition efficiently, our competitive position could be seriously harmed. We continually evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to higher performance process technologies in order to produce more efficient or better integrated circuits because we believe this 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements migration is required to remain competitive. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in migrating to new process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may experience similar difficulties. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with subcontractors to successfully migrate to newer or better processes. Our foundry suppliers may not make newer or better process technologies available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis, if at all. If our foundry suppliers do not make newer or better manufacturing process technologies available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis, or if we experience difficulties in migrating to these processes, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. Uncertainties in our production planning process could have a material adverse effect on our business. For many of our products, our manufacturing lead-time is greater than the delivery lead-times we quote our customers. Therefore, in many cases we routinely manufacture or purchase inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our RF products, which demand is difficult to predict. The cancellation or re-scheduling of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory that could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to produce and ship RF products to our customers in a timely manner could harm our reputation and damage our relationships with our customers. The semiconductor industry is cyclical. If there is a sustained upturn in the semiconductor market, there could be a resulting increase in demand for foundry and other subcontracted services, significantly reducing product availability and increasing our costs. The semiconductor industry periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints. An increase in demand for semiconductors could substantially increase the cost of producing our RF products, and consequently reduce our profit margins. As a result, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future results of operations due to general semiconductor industry conditions. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will adversely affect our results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment. SFAS No. 123R is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes APB No. 25. Among other things, SFAS No. 123R eliminates the use of APB No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting, and requires companies to recognize in their financial statements the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards. As recently amended, the effective date of SFAS No. 123R is the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005, which is January 1, 2006 for calendar year companies, although early adoption is allowed. This change in accounting treatment will have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations because the stock-based compensation expense will be charged directly against our reported earnings. For an illustration of the effect of such a change in our recent results of operations, see Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our research and development efforts are critical to our business and if these efforts are unsuccessful, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to develop new RF products for existing and new markets; our ability to introduce these new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; and our ability to meet customer specifications and convince leading manufacturers to select these new products for design into their new products. Developing new products and improving our existing products requires substantial continuing investments of engineering resources. We have often encountered and continue to encounter difficulties attracting and retaining the highly sophisticated engineering personnel required to timely develop our products and meet our customers’ design windows. In addition, the development of new RF products is highly complex and, from time to time, we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements new products. In addition, some of our new product development efforts are focused on producing silicon products utilizing architectures and technologies with which we have little or no experience, and delivering performance characteristics, such as low power consumption, at levels that we have not previously achieved. Our efforts to address the mobile TV market segment, in particular, will depend on our ability to overcome the challenges described above and upon eventual industry acceptance of our new mobile TV products, such as the MT2260 and MT2262. Some of our past research and development efforts have failed. For example, our Bluetooth products never gained wide market acceptance. Successful product development depends on a number of factors, including: • the accuracy of our prediction of emerging market requirements and evolving standards; • the acceptance of our new product designs by our customers and of our customers’ products by consumers; • the availability of qualified product designers and our ability to attract and retain them; and • our ability to successfully design, develop, manufacture and integrate new components to increase our product functionality in a timely manner. We have made significant changes in our executive management and reduced the scope and costs of our worldwide operations. Because of our reduced scope of operations and management discontinuity, our research and development efforts in our core technologies may lag behind those of our competitors, some of whom have substantially greater financial and technical resources. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to develop and introduce new RF products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, and any new products we develop and offer may never achieve market acceptance. These failures would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We currently have patents issued and pending in the United States and in foreign countries. We intend to seek further United States and international patents on our technology. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications, that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold or that any claims will be allowed from pending applications or will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. While we generally seek patent protection for our innovations, it is possible that some of these innovations may not be protectable. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. In addition, even when we do hold valid patents that we could potentially assert against a competitor’s infringing products, it may not be practicable, effective or cost-efficient for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights fully, particularly, where the initiation of a claim might harm our business relationships or risk a debilitating countersuit by a competitor with patents that read on our products. Our competitors also may be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. In addition to patent and copyright protection, we also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary know-how relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our customers, partners, suppliers and employees. We cannot be certain that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements for any such breach or that trade-secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known by others. Although we intend to protect and vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts and procedures to protect our intellectual property through the prosecution of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets and other methods, we cannot assure you that our current intellectual property or any intellectual property we may obtain through acquisitions or by other means will be free from third-party claims which may be valid. Any third-party claims may lead to costly and time-consuming litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation that could seriously harm our business and compromise our intellectual property position. We have been involved in intellectual property litigation in the past and may become involved in intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or defend against allegations of infringement asserted by others. Legal proceedings could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights either through litigation or a petition for USPTO re-examination initiated by a competitor. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. The expense associated with intellectual property litigation, the diversion of time and attention of our management and technical personnel from our daily operations caused by such litigation and any legal limitation placed upon our products and/or our business related to such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we have initiated, and may initiate in the future, claims or litigation against third-parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish their validity. Even if we successfully assert our intellectual property against a competitor in litigation, our patents may be attacked through a USPTO re-examination, which cannot be settled by the mutual agreement of the parties. For example, despite the settlement of all of our outstanding patent litigation with a competitor in the second quarter of 2004, we must continue to prosecute the validity of our ‘035 patent in the re-examination proceedings initiated by that competitor. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to confirm the validity of certain claims of our ‘035 patent, others will be able to compete directly against us, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products and grow our business. Any future litigation by or against us, or one of our customers, could result in significant expense and divert the efforts of our technical personnel and management, whether or not the litigation results in a favorable determination. Our ability to sell our RF products may be adversely affected if it is determined that we or our customers infringe on the intellectual property of a third-party or if any of our issued patents are determined to be invalid. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which may result in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. Our customers may be subject to infringement claims for their products which incorporate our RF products. If any claims of infringement are made against any of our customers, our customers may seek to involve us in the litigation and demand indemnification from us. The resolution of such a claim against our customer may cause our customer to reduce or completely eliminate marketing its infringing product, which would decrease our sales of RF products to this customer. Further, if our customer were to prevail in its claim for indemnification against us, or if we were found to infringe on any other third-party intellectual property, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages and royalties on our historical and future product sales; • indemnify our customers for their legal fees and damages paid; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • stop manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of some of our processes; or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products or obtaining licenses upon commercially reasonable terms. We may be unable to resolve these problems which could have a material adverse affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not anticipate and adapt to evolving industry standards in the cable, digital TV and automotive markets, or if industry standards develop more slowly than we expect, our products could become obsolete and we could lose market share. Applications and devices for cable, digital TV and automotive markets often are based on industry standards that are continuously evolving. We have often directed our development toward producing RF products that comply with these evolving standards. In some cases, the development of these standards takes longer than originally anticipated. The delayed development of a standard in our target markets has and could result in slower deployment of new technologies, which can harm our ability to sell our RF products, or frustrate the continued use of our proprietary technologies, due to the anticipation of the deployment of a standard. The continued delay in the development of these industry standards could result in fewer manufacturers purchasing our RF products in favor of continuing to use the proprietary technologies designed by our competitors. Such delayed development of industry standards and the resulting slower deployment of new technologies would result in diminished and/or delayed revenue and consequently harm our business. Additionally, our competitors may attempt to relax anticipated standards that we have expended significant research and development funds to meet, thereby eliminating any technical advantages that our products may have. Further, if new unexpected industry standards do emerge, and we have failed to accurately anticipate or design products that meet such standards, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete. Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future standards and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards is a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. Our inability to anticipate the evolving standards for our RF products in the cable, digital TV and automotive markets, or to develop and introduce new products that are functionally and economically competitive into these markets, could result in diminished revenue and, consequently, harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these evolving standards. We have experienced volatility in our stock price and it may fluctuate in the future. Therefore, you may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. For example, during 2005, our common stock has traded at prices as low as $3.05 and as high as $7.11 per share. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • quarterly variations in our financial performance; • our business prospects; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • short-term investor trading strategies; • recent changes in accounting rules related to the expensing of equity awards; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic and political conditions. Public stock markets have experienced, and are currently experiencing, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day?trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Currency fluctuations related to our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A significant portion of our international revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, and we have experienced significant fluctuations in our financial results due to changing exchange rates rather than operational changes. For example, the foreign currency exchange loss was approximately $0.3 million in 2005. We expect to continue to rely significantly on international sales and foreign subcontractors for the foreseeable future. As a result, we expect currency fluctuations to continue, and such fluctuations may significantly impact our financial results in the future. Currently, we do not engage in currency hedging activities, and in the future, we may choose to engage in currency hedging activities to reduce these fluctuations, which may or may not prove to be successful. We may need to obtain the capital required to grow our business. From time to time, we may find it necessary or we may choose to seek additional financing if our strategic growth plans change, or if industry or market conditions are favorable for a particular type of financing. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the need to fund future acquisitions, the capital required to meet our research and development objectives, the rate of market acceptance of our products, our ability to expand our customer base, our level of expenditures for sales and marketing, the cost of product and service upgrades and other factors. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional funds if needed. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. Further, if we issue equity securities, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we issue debt securities, the debt securities generally will have rights senior to those of existing holders of equity securities. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire strategic businesses, develop our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Our business could be disrupted if we are unable to successfully integrate any businesses, technologies, product lines or services that we may acquire in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may review and selectively pursue potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage, complement our technical capabilities, 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements or that would otherwise provide growth opportunities. While we currently have no imminent plans to pursue an acquisition, we may make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies in the future, which may entail many risks. Specific examples of risks that could relate to such transactions include: • risks that we will be unable to successfully integrate the acquired company’s personnel and businesses; • risks that we will be unable to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with the transactions; • risks related to acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles that could negatively affect our reported results of operations; • risks that such transactions will divert management’s time and attention and disrupt our ongoing business; • risks that we will be unable to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired company; • risks that we will be unable to establish and maintain uniform standards controls, procedures and policies; • risks related to unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements and the assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; • risks that the acquired company’s customers will not desire to conduct business with us; • risks related to strained relationships with employees, suppliers and customers resulting from the integration of new personnel; and • risks related to strained relationships with strategic partners who may compete with the acquired company. In addition, future acquisitions or investments may require us to materially reduce our cash reserves; issue additional equity which would be dilutive to our stockholders or to incur debt. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or joint venture will be successfully integrated with our operations and the failure to avoid these or other risks associated with such acquisitions or investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Quality Certifications are subject to periodic re-evaluation. Our design facility located in Ingolstadt, Germany is currently ISO-9000:2000 and ISO-14001 certified. These certifications and others are subject to recertification on a periodic basis. If we are unable to obtain any such recertification, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are subject to certain environmental standards. Beginning July 1, 2006, our product shipped into certain regions of the world must comply with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive 2002/95/EC (RoHS) which restricts the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment that is imported into the European Union. We currently have lead-free versions of our silicon products and we are in the process of altering our applicable subsystem module solutions to also be lead-free. If our customers are unable to re-qualify the lead-free versions of our products or our subsystem module manufacturers are unable to meet the RoHS/lead-free standards in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our international operations, including our operations in Germany, Taiwan, Japan, China and Korea, the operations of our international suppliers and our overall financial results may be adversely affected by events that occur in or otherwise affect these countries. We currently have facilities and suppliers located outside of the United States, including research and development operations in Germany and sales offices in Japan, Taiwan, China and Korea. Other than IBM, ISE and Criteria Labs, substantially all of our suppliers are located outside the United States, and substantially all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are affected by the local conditions in those countries, as well as actions taken by the governments of those countries. For example, if the Philippines government enacts restrictive laws or regulations, or increases taxes paid by manufacturing operations in that country, the cost of manufacturing our products in Manila could increase substantially, causing a decrease in our gross margins and profitability. In addition, if any country, including the United States, imposes significant import restrictions on our products, our ability to import our products into that country from our international manufacturing and packaging facilities could be diminished or eliminated. Local economic and political instability in areas in the Far East, in particular in the Philippines and Korea, where there has been political instability in the past, could result in unpleasant or intolerable conditions for workers, and ultimately could result in a shutdown of our facilities or our subcontractor’s facilities. Our success could be jeopardized by the loss of key personnel or an inability to attract qualified candidates. Any success we may have in the future will depend to a significant degree upon the continued service of our personnel, particularly our key personnel and executive management. The members of our executive management are not parties to employment agreements with Microtune. The loss of one or more members of our executive management or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with experience in RF engineering, integrated circuit design and software and technical marketing and support. We rely heavily upon equity compensation incentives, such as options to purchase our common stock to attract, retain and motivate such personnel. The equity incentives of our competitors and other elements of our competitors’ compensation structures, particularly cash compensation, may be significantly more attractive than the compensation packages we offer. With respect to retaining personnel, the market price of, or other price attainable for, our common stock directly affects the relative attractiveness and effectiveness of our stock options as a recruiting and retention tool. In the past, our common stock price has been substantially higher than currently prevailing prices. Any future poor operating performance we experience may cause the price of our common stock to decline from current levels. In addition, due to the recent issuance of SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payment, requiring companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments in the financial statements, we may change our strategy for compensating employees. A lower market price of our common stock, along with any related deterioration in the morale of our personnel regarding this component of their compensation, may result in our loss of personnel, including key personnel and executive management. These personnel losses could reasonably be expected to have a prompt, material and adverse effect on our business and operations. The competition for attracting qualified candidates is intense, particularly so in the RF silicon and RF systems industries. Our ability to attract qualified candidates is essential to any success we may have in the future. For the reasons described above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical, management, and other candidates necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our RF products in the future. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may deter takeover efforts and limit the ability of our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. Several provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable and therefore may prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Those provisions include: • a provision authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • a provision prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a provision limiting the persons who may call special meetings of the board or the stockholders; • a provision prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • a provision establishing super-majority voting requirements in some instances; and • a provision providing rights to purchase fractional shares of preferred stock to our existing stockholders in the event of certain acquisition attempts. On May 25, 2005, our stockholders approved certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that had the effect of declassifying our board of directors so that all of our directors must stand for election every year at our annual meeting of stockholders. The declassification of our board of directors was a requirement of our settlement of the consolidated derivative stockholder litigation. We have been the target of several securities fraud class action complaints in the past and are at risk of future securities class action litigation. Future litigation could result in substantial costs to us, drain our resources and divert our management’s time and attention. Initial Public Offering Litigation Starting on July 11, 2001, multiple purported securities fraud class action complaints were filed against us, certain former executive officers and certain investment banks that served as underwriters of our initial public offering. We have accepted a settlement proposal presented to all issuer defendants and are waiting for final court approval. For additional discussion of this litigation, see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Class Action Litigation Beginning in February 2003, Microtune and certain of our former executive officers were named as defendants in several class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws and regulations. On November 23, 2004, Microtune and the other defendants entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs under which the defendants agreed to settle the consolidated lawsuit for $5.625 million, inclusive of attorneys’ fees and costs, in return for a full release of all claims and dismissal of the consolidated lawsuit. On April 4, 2005, the district court entered an order of dismissal and final judgment which gave final approval to the securities class action litigation settlement. Microtune and the other defendants made no admission of wrongdoing as part of the settlement. For additional discussion of this litigation, see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Stockholder Derivative Litigation Beginning on October 30, 2003, various stockholder derivative lawsuits were filed against current and former officers and directors of Microtune, alleging various breaches of fiduciary duties, abuse of control, and waste of corporate assets. On January 10, 2005, Microtune and the other defendants entered into a settlement agreement with the plaintiffs to settle the derivative litigation. Under the terms of the agreement, Microtune agreed to pay the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees and expenses in an amount not to exceed $1.125 million and further agreed to adopt certain changes to its corporate governance policies in exchange for a full release of all claims and dismissal of the derivative litigation. On March 31, 2005, the district court entered an order of dismissal and final judgment which gave final approval to the stockholder derivative litigation settlement. Microtune and the other defendants made no admission of wrongdoing as part of the settlement. For additional discussion of this litigation, see Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. There is no guarantee our insurance coverage, including our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, will be sufficient to cover any eventual liability and any shortfall in insurance coverage would impact our cash position which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We purchase various insurance policies to cover specifically designated risks in varying amounts. There is no guarantee that when a claim arises under any of the covered risks that our coverage will be sufficient to cover the entire claim or that any specific claim will be covered, even in part, by insurance. Furthermore, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance may not be available to us in sufficient amounts to cover any claims made or defense costs incurred if securities litigation is filed against us in the future. These factors may result in rapid and substantial depletion of our cash reserves, and this depletion may result in our inability to properly operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Investor confidence and share value may be adversely affected if we are unable to file all required reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission in a timely manner. Our ability to file in a timely manner with the Securities and Exchange Commission the reports required pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K, could be adversely affected by the following events: • loss of key management or finance and accounting personnel; • technical issues with our enterprise resource planning software or other financial reporting tools; • delays in the review of our quarterly results or audit of our annual results by our outside auditors; • unexpected change of our independent audit firm; • significant acquisitions or mergers; • disposition of a portion of our business; and • acts of God or force majeure. Any delay in filing any such report could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace, which ultimately could adversely impact the market price of our shares. Additionally, this could result in the delisting of our stock from The NASDAQ National Market and subsequent quoting of our stock on the “pink sheets,” hindering liquidity of our stock and increasing trading costs and fees for investors. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we or our independent registered public accounting firm are unable to provide adequate attestation regarding the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, it may have a material adverse effect on investor confidence and the market value of our common stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will continue to apply to our future Annual Reports on Form 10-K. We have a complex business organization that is international in scope. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be reevaluated frequently. Although we intend to diligently and vigorously review our internal controls over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in future years. Further, if our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which these controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then they may decline to attest to management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our shares. Additionally, this could result in the delisting of our stock from The NASDAQ National Market and subsequent quoting of our stock on the “pink sheets”, hindering liquidity of our stock and increasing trading fees to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 