D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our share price may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred significant losses in the past and we may continue to incur losses in the future, and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm relating to our financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph describing matters that raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. While we recently sold certain of our patents and one of our divisions and are continuing to take other actions in an effort to streamline our business, we will need to obtain additional funding and to generate working capital to sustain our business. If we are unable to successfully streamline our business and obtain additional funding, we may have to further curtail our operations or cease our operations entirely. In the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, our operating loss was $9.6 million and $20.1 million, respectively and in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, our net loss was $98.5 million, $33.8 million and $55.9 million, respectively. During the early 2000s, we focused our business on the development of WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) technology. WiMAX technology, which was launched a number of years before Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) technology, was faced with fierce competition from LTE as a growing number of cellular operators adopted LTE for their 4th Generation Cellular Technology. By 2009, WiMAX was no longer the prevailing technology for the 4G mobile mass market. We continued to manufacture, market and sell WiMAX products for the 4G mobile mass market through 2012, and while this business generated revenues, it was not profitable. As part of our strategy to focus on complementary wireless applications, in November 2011, we completed the acquisition of Wavion Ltd., a provider of carrier-grade Wi-Fi solutions (“Wavion”). For the purpose of financing the acquisition of Wavion in November 2011, we obtained a $ 30 million secured credit facility from Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”). We decided to finance the acquisition rather than use our cash on hand in order to retain available cash to meet the substantial working capital needs of our WiMAX business while growing our new Wi-Fi business. During 2011, we implemented a restructuring plan including the layoff of approximately 194 employees as well as the vacating of certain leased premises. Nonetheless, we continued to incur substantial losses. In addition, our sales of our Wi-Fi products decreased significantly in the second half of 2012 as the world was migrating to the new 802.11n standard and our WBSn product that had been developed based on that standard was not market ready. 2 During 2012, in particular in light of the significant cash requirements to fund the WiMAX business and the limited availability of credit both in the market generally and to Alvarion in particular, we were actively evaluating various alternatives to exit the WiMAX business. We ultimately decided to seek to sell the business and if we could not reach agreement with a buyer in a reasonable time, we would wind down the business. During 2012, we received several offers and negotiated with a number of potential buyers for the BWA Division, but we did not reach an agreement. As part of this process, we separated all of our licensed WiMAX business (the “BWA Division”) from our unlicensed business. While we continued to operate this business to maintain the customers, products and remain in the market, it it continued to generate significant losses and had a negative effect on working capital. As a result of the difficulty we experienced with the launch and marketing of our WBSn product and our lack of success in disposing of the BWA Division, with respect to which we were required to continue to provide services to our customers and meet contractual commitments, we continued to suffer substantial losses during 2012. Our cash position was further negatively affected by our required principal and interest payments on the SVB Loan, as well as the closure of previously available credit lines with various Israeli banks. Our working capital was approximately $8.4 million as of December 31, 2012 compared to $62.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and $109.9 million as of December 31, 2010. During 2012 and through May 12, 2013, due to the limited availability of credit and our lower cash balances resulting from our prior losses, we have not had the level of working capital and amounts available for product development, launch and support which we believe would be necessary to grow our business and make it profitable. In addition, our limited working capital has resulted, and may continue to result, in delays of shipments of our products, which has and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our profitability. We also have incurred accumulated losses of $388.9 million as of December 31, 2012 and $48 million in negative cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2012. We had $3.5 million in negative cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2012, we had $9.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and an $11 million outstanding revolving short term credit line. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 includes an explanatory paragraph that states that our declining sales, recurring losses, negative cash flows from operations, and our excess of credit line drawn over cash and cash equivalents as well as uncertainty in meeting credit line covenants raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In order to continue as a going concern we will need to obtain funding in order to finance our working capital and sustain our ongoing operations and additional capital to enable product development and market growth. While we are currently actively seeking more funding, we cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain funding on terms that will be acceptable to us or at all. Additional funding raised through the issuance of equity interests may significantly dilute the equity interests of our current shareholders. Furthermore, if we raise additional funds through debt financing arrangements, if available, we may be required to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness, and such debt financing may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to us. Our inability to obtain additional financing for working capital, product development, launch and support or for our other capital requirements on terms acceptable to us would result in our having to curtail our business operations further or cease our operations entirely. 3 In an effort to streamline our business, we recently sold part of our patent portfolio to Wi-Lan Inc. (“Wi-Lan”) and our BWA Division to Telrad Networks Ltd. (“Telrad”) and we are currently focused on our vertical markets businesses. In addition, we are continuing to seek to lower our expenses, including through reductions in the number of our employees across our company, a reduction in employee salaries and moving to new smaller and less expensive facilities. Such actions may not be effective and may not result in the anticipated cost savings and increase in working capital. Even if we are successful in reducing costs, the effects of such reductions on our business operations may ultimately have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our share price may decline. We experienced a decline in orders for our products during 2012 compared to 2011. If customer order activity does not increase, our revenue and profitability will likely be materially adversely affected and we may be required to implement certain measures to preserve or enhance our operating results and cash position. We experienced a significant decline in orders for our products in 2012 compared to 2011. We believe the decrease in orders for our products was attributable to delays in introductions of certain new products. While we would not expect a similar decline in 2013, if our order activity does not increase, our revenue and profitability would likely be materially adversely affected and would contribute to a determination as to whether implement further cost reduction measures and other initiatives to preserve and enhance our cash position. Any such measures may limit or hinder our ability to execute our strategy and achieve our objectives thereby adversely affecting our business. Continued unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia which began in 2008 and 2009 and which has continued at varying levels of intensity since then, led to a global economic slowdown, with economies throughout the world experiencing periods of weakness. This has contributed to the downturn in our business. While the economies in some of the countries in which we operate have improved, if the economies in those countries weaken or if the economies in other countries in which we operate do not improve or weaken further, telecom carriers, service providers and our partners as well as other customers in such countries may further significantly reduce or postpone their technology spending as well as require aggressive vendor financing. This could result in further decreases in our revenues because of reductions in sales, longer sales cycles, slower market acceptance of our products and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, Europe or Asia or other key markets do not improve or weaken further, our business, operating results and financial condition would be further materially adversely affected. Adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry and in the telecommunications equipment market may decrease demand for our products and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems are used by telecom carriers and service providers and within vertical markets, such as municipalities and utility companies. As a result of our customers’ continued tightened spending as well as the limited licenses and substantial capital requirements which limit growth into new markets, our revenues further declined in 2011 and 2012 and may continue to decline and our losses may increase in the future. Adverse market conditions in the past years have also led our customers and potential customers to be conservative in their spending, and this could continue in the future. Due to these conditions, the markets in which we operate may not grow as we expect or may decrease. While our goal is to increase our sales by expanding the range of customers that we address, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. These adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry contributed to the decline in our revenues in 2011 and 2012 and our revenues may continue to decline and our losses may continue to increase. 4 Markets implementing broadband wireless technologies and other new markets we attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets or may not evolve in a manner that will enable our products to achieve market acceptance. If such markets do not evolve or develop or we do not maintain or increase our market share within our current markets, our revenues may continue to decrease. In order to maintain or increase our market share in the markets in which we operate, we must, among other things: · obtain third party funding for working capital; · retain and attract personnel with the relevant knowledge and experience; · continue to innovate and differentiate our technology position by designing, developing and manufacturing broadband wireless access products; · develop and cultivate additional sales channels in addition to our direct sales from which we currently generate our main revenues, including regional local partners or other strategic arrangements with leading manufacturers of access equipment, who can market our wireless broadband products to prospective customers, such as local exchange carriers, international cellular operators, Internet and application service providers, municipalities, customers in education, oil and gas, and other vertical markets, other private network operators and local telephone companies; · effectively establish and support relationships with customers, including local exchange carriers, Internet and application service providers, public fixed or mobile telephone service providers and private network operators; and · continue to enhance our maintenance and support services. Our efforts in these markets may not succeed. Intense competition in the markets for our products has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Multiple companies with a range of diverse products and solutions compete with us in the markets in which we sell our products. These competitors may have a vertical-focus or a multi-vertical focus. Some of these competitors also have a more complete networking solution than ours which may make their products more desirable to our potential customers. Many of these vendors have been able to grow their market share in the past few years in the territories in which we are active. We expect that competition from these vendors will continue to increase, both with respect to products that we currently offer and products that we intend to introduce in the future. As the market transitions toward standardization and Wi-Fi 802.11n technology, competition becomes increasingly challenging and makes room for entry level, low cost offerings by our competitors. We expect our competitors to continue improving the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies and such products or technologies may have better performance than our products or supplant our products entirely. In addition, our current lack of additional new technologies and resulting products may hurt our competitive positioning in the market place and our ability to develop new technologies and products has been and may continue to be adversely affected by our limited working capital. 5 We also face new competition from larger players in the telecom market and/or indoor wireless vendors, such as Cisco, Ericsson, Nokia Siemens and Rockus, as well as from start-up companies. Our license-exempt and vertical market business may be affected by the dynamics of spectrum allocations. The allocation of alternative spectrum such as TV white space spectrum, 24GHz unlicensed band, and 60GHz unlicensed band may become a relevant alternative to the current spectrum upon which our product portfolio is based. Additional license based spectrum, such as the 700MHz public safety band, 6GHz, 70GHz, or LMDS spectrum may become a relevant alternative for our vertical market customers and as such could adversely affect our license-exempt and vertical market business. Most of our existing and potential competitors, including large competitors arising from the continued consolidation in the telecommunications equipment market, have substantially greater resources, including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing, and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than we do. Increased competition, direct and indirect, has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, reductions of average selling prices, shorter product life cycles due to our competitors' launch of innovative products in the market more frequently, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and potential loss of market share and, consequently, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. We have had limited success in our recent efforts, and we may not be able in the future, to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly, offer better performance than the products of our competitors, or offer our customers payment or other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors, particularly in light of the lack of available credit to both Alvarion and its customers specifically and in the markets generally. In addition, we may not be able to offer our products as part of integrated systems or solutions or provide services to the same extent as our competitors. A failure to accomplish one or more of these objectives could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability, harming our financial condition and results of operations. Technological changes have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the market acceptance of our current products and any products we develop in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for our products and the technologies utilized in the industry in which we operate evolve continuously. Market changes have and could in the future render our products and technologies obsolete or subject them to intense competition by alternative products or technologies or by improvements in existing products or technologies. New or enhanced products developed by our competitors may be technologically superior to our products, may limit our target markets or may render our products obsolete, and consequently adversely affect our results of operations. New chips introduced may include built-in capabilities which are currently an Alvarion product differentiator, which would lower the barrier for competition. For example, in the past, we focused our efforts on products using the WiMAX standard, however, cellular carriers adopted other standards introduced after WiMAX and our business was adversely affected. The success of our technology depends on the following factors, among others: · market acceptance of new and innovative technologies employed by us; · market acceptance of standards for wireless broadband products employed by us;; · network capacity to handle growing demands for faster transmission of increasing amounts of data and voice; 6 · cost-effectiveness and performance of our technology compared to other broadband wireless technologies; · reliability and security of our technology; · suitability of our technology for a sufficient number of geographic regions; and · safety and environmental concerns regarding wireless broadband transmissions. We have experienced and may continue to experience difficulties or delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products, which has resulted and could continue to result in reduced sales or unexpected expenses. The development of new or enhanced products in vertical markets is a complex and uncertain process. For example, product development is multi-disciplinary, involving hardware design and development, software, integration, and intensive and complicated system design, and resulting in a long development cycle. We are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the development of various types of product lines, if we have sufficient capital to fund such development. We have experienced and may continue to experience design, development, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties due to delays in our development or delays by third party vendors, and these delays have caused and could continue to cause difficulties or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or product enhancements and subject us to intensified competition. For example, we were unable to successfully introduce our WBSn product when we had expected to do so in early 2012 as a result of product instability and were only able to reintroduce this product in the first quarter of 2013. In addition, our limited financial resources have constrained our ability to invest in research and development of new or enhanced products. Such difficulties have resulted and could continue to result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products or our inability to timely introduce to the market our products, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Also, such delays could lead sales partners and distributors to turn to competing vendors. The launch and availability of certain of our new products, in particular our WBSn product, has also been delayed, which has harmed and may continue to harm our competitiveness and our ability to penetrate, and market these products in, vertical markets in an efficient and timely manner. Businesses we acquired or may acquire in the future may not be successfully integrated with our operations and our technologies, which may harm our business and results of operations. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we acquired Wavion in order to create new growth engines and penetrate into new market segments. Wavion is a provider of carrier grade outdoor Wi-Fi solutions, offering a variety of different products for Wi-Fi access and mobile cellular technologies (“3G/4G”) off-load applications. While we have generally been able to integrate Wavion into our business, this required significant resources and management attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully expand into new markets, such as the Wi-Fi market, as a result of any acquisition. We also cannot assure that the Wi-Fi market will grow as we expect or that our market share of the Wi-Fi market will grow as expected. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected and may increase our costs of operations, which may be higher than expected. We also cannot assure you that we will succeed in retaining our employees or those of any acquired companies following any acquisition, including key employees in managerial positions. In particular, a number of key employees of Wavion have resigned from their positions since our acquisition of Wavion. The continued occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and as a result may decrease our share price in the future. 7 We obtained a loan facility from Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB") which has been amended and modified a number of times in order for us to remain in compliance. If we fail to comply with the terms of the loan agreement with SVB, our available cash and our business operations will be significantly harmed. For the purpose of financing the acquisition of Wavion in November 2011, we obtained a $30 million credit facility from SVB (the “SVB Loan”). As part of the transaction, we pledged all of our assets under a floating charge, and created a fixed charge on our IP rights and receivables. The loan and security agreement with SVB contains various provisions related to compliance with financial covenants, restrictive covenants, including negative pledges, and other customary commitments, contained in facility agreements of this type. In April 2012, we breached certain financial covenants under the SVB Loan, however, we and SVB agreed on modifications to the terms of the SVB loan and on SVB’s waiver of the breach of covenant. We and SVB have modified the terms of the SVB Loan a number of other times, most recently in May 2013. As a result of our breach of the financial covenants under the SVB Loan, as well as various amendments to the SVB Loan, we repaid a total of $19 million during 2012 and $5.6 million during 2013 through May 12, 2013. As of May 12, 2013 and following the completion of the sale of the BWA Division to Telrad, the outstanding balance of the SVB Loan is approximately $5.4 million. The terms of the SVB Loan were further amended in connection with the sale to Telrad and include financial covenants relating to our net tangible assets and our net losses or profits. In addition, the outstanding amount under the SVB Loan must be lower than the amount available thereunder at any time pursuant to the borrowing base provided for under the SVB Loan. There is no assurance that we will not breach the terms of the SVB Loan in the future or that we will remain in compliance with the amended terms. In addition, should we fail to comply with our obligations under the SVB Loan, SVB may require immediate repayment of the SVB Loan and realize on its security, which can significantly harm our available cash and our operations and may result in cessation of our operations in their entirety. For more information please see "Item 10 C – Material Contracts" below. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations which have caused, and may cause, volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations, in particular, in light of the timing of new product introductions, intense competition, the continuing effects of the global economic slowdown and the continued limited availability of credit in the global capital markets. Any fluctuations may cause our results of operations to decrease below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. This would likely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: · the introduction of our new products or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products; · purchasing patterns of our customers, including the size and timing of orders and the timing of large scale deployments; · the fulfillment of all revenue recognition criteria; · customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product features or price reductions; 8 · disruption or changes in the quality of our sources of supply; · changes in the mix of products sold by us; · mergers or acquisitions, by us, our competitors and existing and potential customers, if any; · one-time charges such as asset impairment and restructuring charges; · fluctuations in the exchange rate of the New Israeli Shekel (the “NIS”) against the United States dollar; and · general economic conditions, including the unfavorable global economic conditions; and Our customers ordinarily require the delivery of products promptly after their orders are accepted. Historically, our business typically does not have a significant backlog of accepted orders. Consequently, revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders that are received and accepted in that quarter. The deferral of the placing and acceptance of any large order from one quarter to another could materially and adversely affect our results of operations for the former quarter. The effects of deferrals of orders may be more significant in light of our limited working capital, which has resulted and may continue to result in a backlog of orders if we are unable to pay our suppliers and third party manufacturers on a timely basis. Our revenue recognition is dependent on various parameters and milestones. If revenues from our business in any quarter remain in the same level or decline in comparison to any previous quarter, our results of operations could be harmed. Our products have long and unpredictable sales cycles which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. The sales cycle for a portion of our large service providers encompasses significant technical evaluation and testing by each potential purchaser and a commitment of significant cash and other resources. The sales cycle can extend for more than one year and sometimes even two years from initial contact with a customer to receipt of a purchase order, and in certain instances may not even result in the receipt of an order. This time frame may be extended due to, among other reasons, a customer's desire to ensure that the systems work for a long period with increased number of subscribers’ coverage and capacity, a customer's need to obtain financing or other means of collateral to purchase systems incorporating our products, the regulatory authorization of competition in local services, and other regulatory hurdles. As a result of the length of these sales cycles, revenues from our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and fail to correspond with associated expenses, which are largely based on anticipated revenues. In addition, the delays inherent in the sales cycles of our products raise additional risks of customers canceling or changing their product plans. Our revenues have been adversely affected by a significant customer, or a significant potential customer, reducing, delaying or canceling orders during the sales cycle or choosing not to deploy networks incorporating our products and our revenues may be adversely affected if this occurs in the future. Such fluctuation in revenue or cancellation of orders has had and may in the future have an adverse effect on our business and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our business is dependent upon our distributors, system integrators, service providers and other partners, who are under no obligation to purchase our products. Our revenues are derived from sales to our independent partners, such as distributors, system integrators and service providers. Our distributors resell our products to others, who further resell our products to end users. Changes in the distribution and sales channels of our products, a loss of a major distributor or a major distributor’s loss of a major end-user, or our inability to establish effective distribution and sales channels for new products may impact our ability to sell our products and result in a loss of revenues. Additionally, sales through our distributors and system integrator channels expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our products. For example, some of these distributors, system integrators and other partners may terminate their relationships with us, consolidate or face financial problems, as well as promote competing products or emphasize alternative technologies, which may turn them into our competitors rather than our partners. In addition, while we expect that most of our distributors will continue to distribute our products, certain distributors who primarily distributed the products which were part of our BWA Division may cease to distribute our products entirely and certain distributors may seek other suppliers for their customers due to concerns regarding our level of working capital. All of the foregoing may result in a decline in the purchase of our products. 9 We are dependent upon the acceptance of our products by the market through our partners' efforts in marketing and sales. Generally, arrangements with our partners do not prevent them from selling competitive products and some of the arrangements do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. In addition, our efforts to increase sales may suffer from the lack of brand visibility resulting from the integration of these products into more comprehensive systems by distributors and system integrators. Changes in the financial condition, business or marketing strategies of our partners could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these changes could occur suddenly and rapidly. If our revenues decrease and our days- sales-outstanding (“DSOs”) increase, our cash position may be negatively affected and result in a greater cash shortfall. Our DSOs decreased to 75 days in 2012 from 96 days in 2011. We expect that over time our DSOs may increase and we expect our DSOs will range between 100 to 120 days during 2013, mainly due to our customers requesting more favorable payment terms from us as part of increased competition, as well as the limited availability of credit in the capital markets, which may also affect our ability to collect our customers' debts in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we may experience an increase in DSOs if we fail to timely collect revenues from our customers. We may experience a further decrease in our gross margin levels in the future, which may adversely affect our financial results. We have been experiencing declines in gross margin. Our gross margin was 32.5% in 2012 compared to 46.1% in 2011. While the decline was mainly a result of a write off of excess inventory during 2012, this decline was also driven by our operations in a number of our markets, mainly due to (a) the delay in new project launches, (b) lower sales, (c) increased competition and (d) the economic concerns in these markets, all of which resulted in a low level of revenue and the sequential decline in gross margin. This decline in gross margin may continue over time. If our revenues do not increase and our operating expenses remain the same or increase, the decline in gross margin will have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our products are complex and may have errors or defects that are detected only after full deployment. Some of our products are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in complex settings. Although our products are tested during manufacturing and prior to deployment, our customers may discover errors after the products have been fully deployed. If we are unable to fix errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, including problems related to the site survey, radio planning and other problems that are not necessarily related to product functionality but to the associated services, or unable to correct the errors in a timely manner, we could experience: · costs associated with remediation; · loss of or delay in revenues; · loss of customers; 10 · failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; · diversion of deployment of resources; · diversion of research and development resources to fix errors in the field; · increased service and warranty costs; · legal actions or demands for compensation by our customers; and · increased insurance costs. Our products are often integrated with other network components. There may be incompatibilities between these components and our products that could significantly harm service providers or their subscribers. Product problems in the field could require us to incur costs or divert resources and may subject us to liability for damages caused by the problems or delay research and development projects because of the diversion of resources. These problems could also harm our reputation and competitive position in the industry. We could be subject to warranty claims and product recalls, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. Products like ours sometimes contain undetected errors. These errors can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, we are dependent on unaffiliated suppliers for key components incorporated into our products. Defects in systems in which our products are deployed, whether resulting from faults in our products or products supplied by others, from faulty installation or from any other cause, may result in customer dissatisfaction. Additionally, we are continually marketing several new products. The risk of errors in these new products, as in any new product, may be greater than the risk of errors in established products. The warranties for our products typically permit customers to return for repair or replacement, within a period ranging from 16 to 21 months of purchase, any defective products. Any failure of a system in which our products are deployed (whether or not our products are the cause), any product recall and any associated negative publicity could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our liability for product defects to product replacements, we may not be successful, and customers may sue us or claim liability for defective products and for related claims arising therefrom. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost or divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on limited sources for key components of our products may lead to disruptions in the delivery and increased cost of our products, harming our business and results of operations. We currently obtain key components for our products from a limited number of suppliers, and in some instances from a single supplier. In addition, some of the components that we purchase from single suppliers are custom-made. We cannot be sure that we will not experience increased costs or disruptions in the delivery of our product components. In addition, there is a global demand for some electrical components that are used in our systems and that are supplied by relatively few suppliers. Our dependence on these limited sources for key components for our products presents the following potential risks: · as a result of our financial situation, in some cases, we have not been able and in the future we may not be able to obtain credit from our suppliers and we have not and may not have funds to pay for such components as needed to manufacture our products on a timely basis; · delays in delivery or shortages of components, especially for custom-made components or components with long delivery lead times, could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellations of orders for our products; 11 · suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect on the manufacturing costs of our products; · some of our suppliers may cease to exist or face financial difficulties which could affect the supply chain; · we may not be able to develop alternative sources for product components; · suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our products which may require us to modify our products and which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased product prices; · we may be required to hold more inventory for longer periods of time than we otherwise might in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance, which has led to, and could in the future lead to, write offs of inventory; and · due to the political situation in the Middle East and the fact that our headquarters are located in Israel, we may not be able to import necessary components from different countries world-wide. Our dependence on third party equipment embedded in our products and complementary systems may impact our business. We rely on third party software and hardware embedded in our solution. If our licensors fail to support the software or hardware embedded in our solution we may suffer difficulties in supporting our customers and delivering our equipment. We are also dependent on complementary systems such as CPEs, and Access Service Networks Gateways, which are part of our solution. Failure by our vendors to deliver such products or their discontinuing production of such products may cause difficulties to, and may have an adverse effect, on our business. Changes within any of these vendors’ environments can influence our business results. For example, the recent announcement by one of our major component suppliers that it would not continue supporting the existing chip set as it is moving to a new chip generation may influence price levels or change the partners’ roadmap in a way that could harm our business. In addition, in the past, we experienced delays and shortages in the supply of components on more than one occasion. We may experience such delays in the future, harming our business and results of operations. We must be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demands of our customers. To ensure that we are able to meet customer demand for our products, we seek to place orders with our subcontractors and suppliers based on our estimates of future sales, to the extent we have available working capital to make such purchases. If actual sales differ materially from these estimates, our inventory levels may be too high, and inventory may become obsolete and/or over-stated on our balance sheet. This result would require us to write off inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, we wrote off inventory related to our unlicensed business in the amounts of $2.1 million, $1.4 million, and $6.4 million, respectively. We are required to place manufacturing orders well in advance of the time we expect to sell products, and this may result in us ordering a larger or smaller number of these products than required. If we lack working capital, then we may choose to order a smaller number of products. In the event that we order the manufacture of a greater or lesser amount of these products than necessary, we may be required to purchase the surplus products or to forego or delay the sale or delivery of the products that we did not order in advance. In either case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 12 The limited manufacturing capacity of a number of subcontractors we depend on may prevent us from filling orders in the timeframe and with the quality specifications our customers demand, which may harm our business and results of operations. We currently depend on a number of contract manufacturers with limited manufacturing capacity to manufacture our products. The assembly of certain of our finished products, and the manufacture of custom printed circuit boards utilized in electronic subassemblies and related services are also performed by these independent subcontractors. In addition, we rely on third-party “turn-key” manufacturers to manufacture certain sub-systems for our products. Reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to significant risks, including risks resulting from: · potential lack of manufacturing capacity; · limited control over delivery schedules; · quality assurance and control; · manufacturing yields and production costs; · voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship with us; · concerns of our subcontractors regarding our company; · difficulty in, and timeliness of, substituting any of our contract manufacturers, which could take as long as six months or more; · the economic and political conditions in their environments; and · the financial strength of our third party manufacturers. If the operations of our contract manufacturers are halted, even temporarily, or if our contract manufacturers are unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we may experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. Any of these risks could result in manufacturing delays or increases in manufacturing costs and expenses. If we experience manufacturing delays, we could lose orders for our products and, as a result, lose customers. There may be an adverse effect on our profitability and, consequently, on our results of operations, if we incur increased costs. Regulation by governments or other public authorities may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our products that may be difficult and costly. Our business is premised on the availability of certain radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under international treaties and local laws, which differ by country. Most of our products operate in license-free bands in the radio spectrum, while others operate in licensed bands. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to significant change, the results and timing of which are uncertain. In some cases, the continued validity of licenses may be conditioned on the licensee complying with various conditions. In addition to regulation of available frequencies, our products must conform to a variety of national and international regulations that require compliance with administrative and technical requirements as a condition to the operation or marketing of devices that emit radio frequency energy. 13 The regulatory environment in which we sell our products subjects us to several risks, including the following: · If our products operate in the license-free bands, United States Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and similar rules in other countries require operators of radio frequency devices, such as our products, to cease operation of a device if its operation causes interference with authorized users of the spectrum and to accept interference caused by other users; · If the use of our products interferes with authorized users, or if users of our products experience interference from other users, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected; · Regulatory changes and restrictions imposed due to environmental concerns, such as restrictions imposed on the location of outdoor antennas; and · Export control laws and regulations which are applicable to all of our products and technology may become more stringent in the future. We are subject to certain European directives like the directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment and may also be subject to other similar legislation in other parts of the world. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect, and its unauthorized use by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depends and will continue to depend, to a large extent, on maintaining our proprietary rights and the rights that we currently license or will license in the future from third parties. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyright law and on confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have obtained several patents and have several patent applications pending that are associated with our products. We also have several trademark registrations associated with our name and some of our products. These measures may not be sufficiently adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Third-party patent applications filed earlier may block our patent applications or receive broader claim coverage. In addition, any patents issued to us, if issued at all, may not provide us with significant commercial protection. Third parties may also invalidate, circumvent, challenge or design around our patents or trade secrets, and our proprietary technology may otherwise become known, or similar technology may be independently developed by competitors. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Failure to successfully protect our intellectual property from infringement may damage our ability to compete effectively and harm our results of operations. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. From time to time we receive allegations that we have infringed upon a patent, trademark or other proprietary right. Based on the size and sophistication of our competitors and the history of rapid technological change in our industry, it is possible that several competitors may have intellectual property rights that could relate to our products. Therefore, we may need to litigate to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Similarly, we may need to litigate to enforce or uphold the validity of our patent, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Other actions may involve ownership disputes over our intellectual property or the misappropriation of our trade secrets or proprietary technology. As a result of these actions, we may have to seek licenses to third-parties' intellectual property rights, which may not be able to be successfully integrated into our products. These licenses may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation could be expensive and time consuming and could result in court orders preventing us from selling our then-current products or from operating our business. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no assurance that any such allegation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 If we are unable to maintain licenses to use certain technologies, we may not be able to develop and sell our products. We receive licenses from third party companies for certain technologies we use in connection with some of our technologies. The loss of these licenses could impair our ability to develop and market our products. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the licenses that we need, we may be unable to develop and market our products or processes, or we may need to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance characteristics or at greater cost. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses, if we need them in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Also, some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures. These licenses and others like them pose a potential risk to products should they be inappropriately used. We depend on key personnel and several members of our senior management have been recently appointed. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of key personnel. Most members of our senior management team are new to their positions. Our Chief Executive Officer assumed his position as of April 22, 2013 after serving as Corporate Vice President, Strategy & Business Development since 2011. Our CFO assumed his position as of January 1, 2013 after serving as vice president in our financial division since September 2009. They may need time to acquire the specific skills necessary to successfully carry out the tasks required of them, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Eight of nine members of our senior management, were only appointed to their present positions in 2012 and another was only appointed in 2011. Some of these individuals had little or no previous experience working for Alvarion. Should any members of senior management, including our new Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, fail to perform as expected, or should they or other new key managerial appointees fail to acquire the requisite knowledge and skills in a timely manner, or should they decide to leave the Company on their own initiative, our operations may be disrupted and this might materially adversely affect the results of our operations. The reductions in force the Company underwent in the past few years, and may carry out in the future, may result in our not having adequate personnel resources for our operations. Such reductions in force may also have adverse effects on the morale of our employees, which may induce employees to leave the Company. If certain of our key technical, sales or senior management personnel terminate their employment and we are unable to retain qualified replacements, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company. As a result of the combination of our substantial holdings of cash, cash equivalents and securities and the decline in the market price of our ordinary shares from its historical highs, there is a risk that we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes. However, based upon our market capitalization during 2012, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2012. We cannot assure you, however, that the United States Internal Revenue Service or the courts would agree with our conclusion if they were to consider our situation. There is no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2013 or in subsequent taxable years. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. taxpayers that own our ordinary shares would be subject to additional taxes upon certain distributions by us or upon gains recognized after a sale or disposition of our ordinary shares unless they appropriately elect to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” or to make a “mark-to-market election” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Our classification as a PFIC could also adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. For more information, see “Item 10—Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations with Respect to the Acquisition, Ownership and Disposition of our Ordinary Shares—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status”. 15 The price of our ordinary shares is subject to volatility. The price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. On April 2, 2013, in order to increase our per share trading price to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for the continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market , we completed a reverse split of our ordinary shares, upon which our shareholders received one ordinary share of Alvarion for every 10 ordinary shares held by them. For the two year period ended December 31, 2012, the price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and since October 19, 2012, the NASDAQ Capital Market has ranged from a high of $26.20 to a low of $3.20 (adjusted for the reverse split). On December 31, 2012 and April 30, 2013, the closing price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $3.70 (adjusted for the reverse split) and $2.96 respectively. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the future, based on the following factors, among others: · general economic conditions; · our prospects; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our sales and results of operations; · variations between our actual or anticipated results of operations and the published expectations of analysts; · general conditions in the telecommunications equipment industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and capital commitments; · introduction of technologies or product enhancements or new industry substitute standards that reduce the need for our products; · the effect of general political conditions on our operations and results; and · departures of key personnel. We must meet the Nasdaq Capital Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting. If our ordinary shares are delisted, our share price may decline and it will likely make it more difficult for us to sell securities in a financing and for our shareholders to trade our shares. Our ordinary shares began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market on October 19, 2012. Prior to October 19, 2012, our ordinary shares were traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. On April 26, 2012, we received a notification letter from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications staff of the Nasdaq Stock Market advising us that, based on the closing bid price of our common stock for the 30 consecutive business days prior to April 26, 2012, we no longer satisfied the requirement that our common stock maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). Nasdaq stated in its letter that in accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we had been provided 180 calendar days, or until October 23, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On October 24, 2012, since we met the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other applicable NASDAQ listing requirements, except the bid price requirement, we received an extension until April 22, 2012 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. Subsequently our ordinary shares were transferred to the Nasdaq Capital Market as of October 19, 2012. On April 1, 2013, we completed a one for ten reverse split of our ordinary shares and subsequently we regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. 16 We cannot ensure you that we will meet the minimum bid requirement or the other continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our ordinary shares are delisted from Nasdaq, we may be eligible to trade on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, which may be a less liquid market, or on the pink sheets. In such case, our shareholders’ ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, shares of our ordinary shares would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. There can be no assurance that our ordinary shares, if delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, will be listed on a national securities exchange, a national quotation service, the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board or the pink sheets. Delisting from Nasdaq, or even the issuance of a notice of potential delisting, would also result in negative publicity, make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital, adversely affect the market liquidity of our ordinary shares, reduce security analysts’ coverage of us and diminish investor, supplier and employee confidence. Future sales or the potential for future sales of our securities may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common shares or other securities to decline and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. Holders of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected through dilution. We may need to issue equity in order to fund working capital, capital expenditures and product development requirements or to make acquisitions and other investments. If we choose to raise funds through the issuance of ordinary shares, the issuance will dilute the ownership interest of our current shareholders. Operating in international markets exposes us to risks, which could cause our sales to decline and our operations to suffer and could expose us to various legal, business, political and economic risks. While we are headquartered in Israel, approximately 97% of our sales in 2012 were generated globally, outside of Israel. Our products are marketed internationally and we are, therefore, subject to certain risks associated with international sales, including the following: · trade restrictions, tariffs, and technology import and export license requirements, which may restrict our ability to export our products or may make our products less price-competitive; · effects of economic conditions and credit availability; · adverse tax consequences; · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; · difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and staffing multiple offices and multiple research and development centers, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; 17 · difficulties in enforcing contracts and implementing our accounts receivable function, which introduces revenue recognition, translation, proximity and cultural challenges; · political and economic instability, particularly in emerging markets; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries where we may seek to expand our sales in the future; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · differing labor standards; · costs of localizing our products for foreign countries and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the implications on our financial statements. We may encounter significant difficulties with the sale of our products in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. There may be health and safety risks related to wireless products. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from cellular telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us, or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market our products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and the majority of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and in the Middle East directly affect our operations. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In the event of war, we and our Israeli subcontractors and suppliers may cease operations which may cause delays in the development, manufacturing or shipment of our products. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas and other groups, as well as extensive and continued hostilities along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons which could attract preemptive actions by Israel and/or Western countries. Furthermore, since the beginning of 2011 there has been instability in the bordering countries such as Egypt and Syria. We have witnessed increased instability in the region, in particular related to the governmental changes in Egypt and the deterioration of the internal government and control of Syria's President Assad, over Syria's internal affairs. This and further deterioration could have an adverse effect on the stability of our region. Ongoing violence involving Israel, as well as tension between Israel and terror organizations and other countries in the Middle East, combined with political instability in the Middle East such as in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Iran and Lebanon, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Furthermore, several countries, principally some of those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to offer our services to customers in these countries. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military service duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees due to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees due to military service. A disruption could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently benefit from local government programs as well as international programs and local tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced. We have received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (“OCS”) for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the “Research and Development Law”. Pursuant to our current arrangement with the OCS, the OCS finances up to 20% of our research and development expenses by reimbursing us for up to 66% of the approved expenses related to our generic research and development projects. In addition, we obtain other grants from the OCS to partially fund certain other research and development projects. These programs currently restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. The Research and Development Law and related regulations permit the OCS to approve the transfer of manufacturing rights outside Israel subject to approval of the research committee and in exchange for the payment of higher royalties, for royalty-bearing programs. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay additional amounts with respect to the grants received under these programs. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs and potential tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have also received grants from the European Union, Romania and Spain for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in those countries through various European programs. Under these programs we need to comply with certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay additional amounts with respect to the grants received under these programs. If the European Union, the Government of Spain and/or the Government of Romania discontinues or modifies these programs and potential tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have been granted “Approved Enterprise” status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (the “Investment Law”) for our production facilities in Israel. Such status enables us to obtain certain tax relief for a definitive period upon compliance with the Investment Law regulations. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect which significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The amendment revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a “Privileged Enterprise” (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. However, the amendment provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval granted prior to December 31, 2004 will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. On January 1, 2011, another significant amendment to the Investment Law came into effect. Such amendment introduced new benefits to replace those granted in accordance with the provisions of the Investment Law in effect prior to such amendment. However, companies entitled to benefits under the Investment Law as in effect prior to January 1, 2011 were entitled to choose to continue to enjoy such benefits, provided that certain conditions are met, or elect instead irrevocably to forego such benefits and have the benefits of the new amendment apply. We have reviewed and evaluated the implications and effect of the benefits under the new amendment, and, while potentially eligible for such benefits, we have not yet chosen to be subject to the tax benefits introduced by such amendment. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the requirements of the Investment Law which are applicable to our enterprises. However, if we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to pay increased taxes in the future. 19 We are adversely affected by the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the New Israeli Shekel and could be adversely affected by the rate of inflation in Israel. Substantially all of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our expenses, primarily salaries, building leases and related personnel expenses is currently incurred in NIS, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. As a result, inflation in Israel and/or the devaluation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the NIS has and may continue to have the effect of increasing the cost in U.S. dollars of these expenses; hence, our dollar-measured results of operations are and may continue to be adversely affected, though, the inflation in Israel has been moderate in recent years. In order to manage the risks imposed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, from time to time we enter into currency forward contracts and put and call options to hedge some of our foreign currency exposure. We can provide no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be effective. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar may cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. Provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Our Articles of Association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, including a classified board of directors. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to such types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date on which a merger proposal is filed by each merging company with the Israel Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date on which the shareholders of both merging companies have approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a tender offer for all of a company’s issued and outstanding shares can only be completed if the acquirer receives positive responses from the holders of at least 95% of the issued share capital. Completion of the tender offer also requires approval of a majority of the offerees (in head count) that do not have a personal interest in the tender offer, unless, following consummation of the tender offer, the acquirer would hold at least 98% of the company’s outstanding shares. Furthermore, the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the completion of the tender offer, petition an Israeli court to alter the consideration for the acquisition, unless the acquirer stipulated in its tender offer that a shareholder that accepts the offer may not seek such appraisal rights. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. 20 It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce U.S. judgments against our directors and officers in Israel or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Our executive officers and a majority of our directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to obtain a judgment in the United States or collect or get an Israeli court to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities laws claims in original actions instituted in Israel. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Listing Rules. We do not comply with the NASDAQ requirement that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans. Instead, we follow Israeli law and practice in accordance with which the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans is approved by our board of directors. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, executive officer compensation, director nomination, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Listing Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 