ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness if needed and could negatively affect our ability to service our debt. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2006, our total outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations but excluding the markup of the Horizon PCS debt to fair value at the time of our merger, was approximately $290.5 million. Such indebtedness represented approximately 58% of our total capitalization as of December 31, 2006. The indentures that govern our senior notes permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain limitations. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. If we incur additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the senior notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the senior notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and · potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could decrease our ability to compete in our industry. The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions, the final outcome of our litigation with Sprint, and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms in a timely manner or at all. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of out indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The indentures that govern the senior notes limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, result in our bankruptcy. We emerged from bankruptcy in 2004 and we have a history of net losses. We may incur additional losses in the future, and our operating results could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. iPCS emerged from bankruptcy in July 2004 and Horizon PCS emerged from bankruptcy in October 2004. Prior to our emergence from bankruptcy and the implementation of fresh-start accounting, iPCS had a net accumulated deficiency of $393.5 million and Horizon PCS had a net accumulated deficiency of $685.9 million. Our future operating profitability and cash flows from operating activities will depend upon many factors, including, among others, the resolution of our currently pending disputes with Sprint (including the final outcome of our litigation and arbitration proceedings against Sprint), our ability 33 to market Sprint PCS products and services, achieve projected market penetration and manage subscriber turnover rates. If we do not achieve and maintain operating profitability and positive cash flows from operating activities, we may be unable to service our debt obligations. Our inability to satisfy our obligations may result in our restructuring or bankruptcy. In addition, our future operating results and cash flows will be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to many factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include increased costs we may incur in connection with the further development, expansion and upgrade of our PCS network and fluctuations in the demands for our services. See “—We may incur substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our desired capital expenditures.” We may not achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows. To the extent our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate significantly, we will be unable to satisfy our debt obligations. Our inability to satisfy our obligations may result in our restructuring or bankruptcy. It is our strategy to continue our subscriber growth, which may negatively affect our near term profitability. We intend to continue to grow our subscriber base by expanding our sales distribution channels, particularly the number of Sprint co-branded dealers and company-owned retail stores, and by increasing our sales and marketing activities. If we seek to accelerate our subscriber growth, we will incur significant up-front subscriber acquisition expenses, which initially will result in reduced levels of cash flows from operating activities as compared to our most recent prior periods. Moreover, we increasingly must attract a greater proportion of our new subscribers from our competitor’s existing subscriber bases rather than first time purchasers. In addition, to the extent our subscriber growth includes a higher percentage of sub-prime credit subscribers, our churn and bad debt expense may increase, and also may impair our ability to maintain and increase our revenues and cause a deterioration in our operating margin. Moreover, despite incurring increased sales and marketing expenses, we may not succeed in growing our subscriber base. We rely on independent third parties for a sizable percentage of our sales. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 65% of our gross subscriber additions originated from distribution channels operated by Sprint and independent third parties, namely national retailers (for example, Costco, Best Buy, RadioShack) and local third parties (including Sprint co-branded dealers). For the three months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 15% of our gross subscriber additions were generated by RadioShack, while another approximately 15% were generated by three independent local third parties. Although we believe that utilizing these independent third parties is beneficial to us, it also presents a number of drawbacks, such as limited control. These independent third parties have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations. Their employees are not our employees. Although we can exercise control over the local third parties through our distribution agreements, we have much less control over national retailers as their agreements are with Sprint. To the extent that these third parties do not perform well, experience financial difficulty, reduce their distribution points or emphasize our competitor products and services over Sprint PCS products and services, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We have experienced an increase in our bad debt expense that may have an adverse effect on our results and operations. Our bad debt expense for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 was $10.9 million, compared with $2.1 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005. We believe that this increase in bad debt expense resulted from increases in our number of subscribers, especially sub-prime subscribers, and an increase in credit-related deactivations. At the same time, the average amount written-off per account increased. We increasingly must attract a greater proportion of our new customers from our competitors’ existing customer bases rather than from first time purchasers of wireless services. The higher overall market penetration also means that customers purchasing wireless services for the first time, on average, may have 34 a lower credit rating than existing wireless users, which generally results in a higher rate of credit-related deactivations and increased bad debt expense. Our financial condition and results of operations are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. As a result of iPCS’s emergence from bankruptcy, we are subject to fresh-start accounting prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles. In accordance with fresh-start accounting, assets and liabilities were recorded at fair value, with the enterprise value that was determined in connection with the reorganization. Accordingly, iPCS’s financial condition and results of operations for the periods subsequent to July 1, 2004 are not comparable to the financial condition or results of operations for the periods as of and prior to July 2, 2004 reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements in this report. Additionally, we merged with Horizon PCS effective July 1, 2005. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operation for periods prior to July 1, 2005 are not comparable to our financial conditions and results of operations for period after July 1, 2005. Beginning on January 1, 2007, the reciprocal per-minute and per-kilobyte roaming rate with Sprint PCS was reduced, resulting in us receiving less roaming revenue, which will result in an increase in our operating loss. As discussed above in “Item 1 Business—Roaming”, Sprint has implemented lower reciprocal roaming rates for 2007. Because a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from roaming revenue when subscribers of Sprint PCS based outside of our territory roam onto our PCS network, this reduction in the reciprocal roaming rates will decrease the net amount earned from Sprint PCS and decrease our revenues. Had these lower reciprocal roaming rates been in effect for 2006, our roaming revenue from Sprint PCS for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 would have decreased by approximately $42.4 million, or 43%, and our roaming expense payable to Sprint would have decreased by approximately $34.2 million, or 49%, resulting in a net increase in our operating loss of approximately $8.2 million. We strongly disagree with Sprint’s proposed new roaming rates and intend to vigorously oppose them when they are finalized, including by submitting the matter to arbitration or litigation if necessary. If the matter is submitted to an arbitration panel and the arbitration panel imposes rates different than the ones then in effect, the new rates would be retroactively applied to the appropriate period. However in the meantime, beginning on January 1, 2007, the new reciprocal roaming rates went into effect. If we receive lower revenues or incur more fees than we anticipate for PCS roaming with Sprint PCS, our results of operations may be negatively affected. As our subscriber base grows, we expect to incur more fees for PCS roaming. Similarly, to the extent that Sprint’s subscriber base does not grow, we expect to receive lower revenues for PCS roaming. Additionally, Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory may spend more time outside our territory than we anticipate—resulting in us incurring more fees for PCS roaming—and wireless subscribers from outside our territory may spend less time in our territory or may use our services less than we anticipate—resulting in us receiving lower revenues for PCS roaming. Our ratio of inbound to outbound roaming with Sprint PCS has been declining and is expected to continue to decline over time. This ratio was approximately 1.3 to 1 for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, down from 1.5 to 1 for the quarter ended December 31, 2005. Continuing declines in this ratio will negatively affect our operating results. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless towers or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless towers on favorable terms or at all, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. All of our base stations are installed on leased facilities that may be shared with one or more other wireless communications providers. In addition, a large portion of these leased tower sites are owned by a limited number of tower companies. If a master agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support the use of its tower sites by us, we would have to find new sites or may be required to rebuild the affected portion of our PCS network. In 35 addition, the concentration of our tower leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if any of our operating subsidiaries is unable to renew its expiring leases with these tower companies either on favorable terms or at all. If any of the tower leasing companies with whom we do business should experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use our towers could be adversely affected. That, in turn, would adversely affect our business, revenues and financial condition if a material number of towers were involved. We depend on other telecommunications companies for some services that, if delayed or interrupted, could delay our expected increases in subscribers and revenues. We depend on other telecommunications companies to provide facilities and transport to interconnect our PCS network and to connect our PCS network with the landline telephone system. Without these services, we could not offer Sprint PCS services to our subscribers in some areas. From time to time, we have experienced delays in obtaining facilities and transport from some of these companies, and in obtaining local telephone numbers for use by our subscribers, which are sometimes in short supply, and we may continue to experience delays and interruptions in our network operations and our business may suffer. Delays or interruptions could also result in a breach of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, subjecting these agreements to potential termination by Sprint PCS. We rely exclusively on Nortel Networks for our network equipment. This equipment is generally not interchangeable/interoperable with network equipment from other providers and we would be materially adversely affected if we could not obtain additional network equipment or support from Nortel Networks timely or at all and, in any event, cost effectively. Our PCS network equipment is supplied solely by Nortel Networks. If additional equipment or support is needed for expansion or repair of our network, it generally must come from Nortel Networks in order to be compatible with our existing network equipment. If Nortel Networks were to cease or delay supplying equipment, we would be prevented or delayed in expanding or repairing our network. Any inability to expand or repair our network could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, Nortel Networks potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to its equipment. Additionally, if Nortel Networks has a significant disruption in its business or fails, our business and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. Alternative technologies, including WiMax, and current uncertainties in the wireless and overall communications market may make the technology we use obsolete or reduce demand for PCS products and services. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant and rapid technological change, as evidenced by the continued pace of upgrades in existing digital wireless systems, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. We rely on Sprint to keep pace with these technological changes. If Sprint is unable to keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the wireless communications market, the technology used in our PCS network or our business strategy may become obsolete. Other carriers are in the process of upgrading their networks to 3G technologies such as EV-DO, Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) or High-Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA). We have deployed a 100% CDMA 1xRTT network across all our operating markets, and are currently offering PCS Vision services in markets representing 100% of the covered population in our territory. Sprint PCS has deployed EV-DO technology in portions of its service area and its EV-DO service, marketed as “Power Vision,” is accessible to about 200 million people as of December 31, 2006. Although we are not required under our affiliation agreements with Sprint to deploy EV-DO across our network, we deployed EV-DO in Grand Rapids, Michigan and may similarly elect to deploy the next generation of EV-DO technology, EV-DO Rev. A, in portions of our service area, which would significantly increase our capital expenditures. If we fail to 36 implement significant technological changes, we may also lose subscribers and/or roaming revenue and our ability to maintain and increase revenues will be impaired. The convergence of wireless, landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access is also creating uncertainties in the overall communications market. The proliferation of Wi-Fi and the potential application of WiMAX create additional uncertainty about how customers will communicate wirelessly in the future. Future wireless applications on current or future portions of the wireless spectrum may also reduce demand for the wireless products and services we offer for Sprint. In addition, Sprint has interests in developing technologies and delivery channels, such as its recently announced WiMax initiative and its joint venture with certain cable companies, including Comcast, Time Warner and Cablevision, that may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may incur substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our desired capital expenditures. We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain our network, to enhance the efficiency of our operations and to remain technologically current and competitive. Our total capital expenditures were $17.4 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005 and $44.5 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, including approximately $22 million related to our Nortel swap. We expect to incur capital expenditures in the range of approximately $38 to $42 million in 2007, including approximately $10 million for EV-DO Rev. A. We anticipate that our available cash resources and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. However, if we require additional funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our network as we require, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the terms of the indentures governing our senior notes may restrict our ability to obtain such financing. Acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or divert the attention of our management. We consider acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business, some of which could be material in size and scope. There cannot be any assurance that we will be able to consummate any such transactions that we consider, or that future acquisitions will be consummated at acceptable prices or on favorable terms. Acquisitions involve several risks, including: · the diversion of management’s attention to the acquired businesses and their employees and the expansion of operations; · the integration of acquired businesses; · increasing demands on our operational systems; and · possible adverse effects on our operating results, particularly in the first several reporting periods after any such acquisition is consummated. In addition, we may finance any future acquisition with debt, which would increase our interest costs. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses, or if acquired businesses perform poorly, then our business and financial results may suffer. It is possible that the businesses that we may acquire in the future may perform worse than expected or prove to be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected. If that happens, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results for a number of reasons, including: · we may have to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to acquired businesses; · we may not be able to realize expected operating efficiencies or integration benefits from our acquisitions; 37 · we may have to write-off goodwill or other intangible assets; and · we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions. The loss of the officers and skilled employees upon whom we depend to operate our business could adversely affect our operating results. Our business is managed by a small number of executive officers on whom we depend to operate our business. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to retain these executive officers and to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified technical and management personnel. Moreover, the uncertainly surrounding our relationship with Sprint, including Sprint’s acquisition of all but four PCS Affiliates of Sprint (including us), makes it more difficult for us to retain our existing employees and more difficult and expensive to fill vacancies. For example, these factors could make it more difficult and expensive to hire a new chief operating officer. The loss of the officers and skilled employees upon whom we depend to operate our business or our inability to fill vacancies could adversely affect operating results. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding our financial reports or may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with the reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In doing so, we may identify significant deficiencies or errors that are not currently known to us. As a public company, we will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue a favorable assessment if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could negatively impact the value of our securities and could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Sprint PCS Our ability to conduct our business would be severely restricted if Sprint PCS terminates our affiliation agreements. Our relationship with Sprint PCS is governed by our affiliation agreements with it. We do not own any licenses that are used in our PCS network and our business depends on the continued effectiveness of these affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. Sprint PCS may be able to terminate our affiliation agreements with it if we materially breach the terms of the agreements. These terms include operational and network requirements that are extremely technical and detailed and apply to each retail store, cell site and switch site. Many of these operational and network requirements can be changed by Sprint PCS, in certain cases, with little notice. As a result, we may not always be in compliance with all requirements of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. Sprint PCS conducts periodic audits of compliance with various aspects of its program guidelines and identifies issues it believes need to be addressed. We may need to incur substantial costs to remedy any noncompliance. If we are not in compliance with our affiliation 38 agreements, such failure could limit our ability to obtain any additional financing that we may need in order to remedy such noncompliance. Additionally, our substantial indebtedness and our emergence from bankruptcy could further limit our ability to obtain additional financing. If we cannot obtain additional financing, we may be unable to remedy such noncompliance, thereby resulting in a material breach of our affiliation agreements which could lead to their termination by Sprint PCS. If Sprint PCS terminates or fails to renew our affiliation agreements or fails to perform its obligations under those agreements, our ability to conduct business would be severely restricted. If we materially breach our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS may have the right to purchase our operating assets at a discount to market value. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS require that we provide network coverage to a minimum network coverage area within specified time frames, which we believe we have satisfied, and that we meet and maintain Sprint PCS’ technical and customer service requirements. A failure to meet Sprint PCS’s technical or customer service requirements contained in the affiliation agreements, among other things, would constitute a material breach of the agreements, which could lead to termination by Sprint PCS. We may amend our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS in the future to expand our network coverage. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS provide that upon the occurrence of an event of termination caused by our breach of such agreements, Sprint PCS has the right to, among other things, purchase our operating assets without stockholder approval and for a price equal to 72% of our “entire business value,” which is our appraised value determined using certain principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. See “—Affiliation Agreements with Sprint PCS” for a description of how we calculate our entire business value. Sprint PCS may make decisions that could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and/or our capital expenditure requirements and make our affiliate relationships with Sprint PCS less advantageous than expected. Under our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS has a substantial amount of control over factors that significantly affect the conduct of our business. We are required to offer PCS subscriber pricing plans from Sprint PCS designated for regional or national offerings, including “Fair & Flexible” plans, “Free & Clear” plans and “PCS Vision” plans. Sprint PCS prices subscriber pricing plans based on its own objectives and could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business, which would result in decreased revenues and/or increased expenses. In addition, subject to certain limitations set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS may alter its network and technical requirements or request that we build out additional areas within our territory, which could result in increased operating expenses, additional equipment and build-out costs or in Sprint PCS building out that area itself or assigning it to another PCS Affiliate of Sprint. Certain provisions of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS may diminish our value and restrict the sale of our business. Under specific circumstances and without stockholder approval, Sprint PCS may purchase our operating assets or capital stock at a discount. In addition, Sprint PCS has the right to withhold its consent to any transaction in which the “ultimate parent” of any of our operating subsidiaries that is the party to the affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, changes. We must obtain the consent of Sprint PCS prior to any assignment by us of our affiliation agreements with it. Sprint PCS also has a right of first refusal if we decide to sell our operating assets to a third party. We are also subject to a number of restrictions on the transfer of our business, including a prohibition on the sale of our operating assets to competitors of Sprint PCS. These restrictions and the other restrictions contained in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS restrict our ability to sell our business, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay for our business, and may reduce our “entire business value,” which is our appraised value determined using principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. 39 Problems with Sprint PCS’s internal support systems could lead to customer dissatisfaction or increase our costs. We rely on Sprint PCS’s internal support systems, including customer care, billing and back office support. Sprint PCS has entered into business process outsourcing agreements with third parties to provide these services. Sprint PCS may not be able to successfully add system capacity, its internal support systems may not be adequate and the third parties that Sprint PCS has contracted with may not perform their obligations. In addition, we rely on Sprint for the proper application of credit policies, the processing and collection of receivables and bad debt collection. Problems with Sprint PCS’ internal support systems could cause: · delays or problems in our operations or services; · delays or difficulty in gaining access to subscriber and financial information; · a loss of subscribers; · an increase in bad debt expense; and · an increase in the costs of customer care, billing and back-office services. Additionally, Sprint has acquired six PCS Affiliates of Sprint, leaving four remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint, including us. As a result of these acquisitions, Sprint may not devote as much of its personnel and resources to the remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations. As a result of the merger between Sprint and Nextel, we expect that the combined company will integrate the internal support systems of Sprint and Nextel, which could include the migration of certain customers onto different systems. For example, Sprint has announced that it is implementing a common platform for customer billing. Customer migrations or systems conversions, or any delay or problems associated with these changes, may result in difficulty in gaining access to subscriber and financial information, increased customer dissatisfaction leading to increased churn, and increased costs in providing such internal support systems; each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Should Sprint PCS fail to deliver timely and accurate information, this may lead to adverse short-term decisions and inaccurate assumptions in our business plan. It could also adversely affect our cash flows, because Sprint PCS collects our receivables and remits to us a net amount that is based on the financial information it produces for us. The costs we incur for certain Sprint-provided back-office services increased on January 1, 2007, and may increase further. As discussed more fully in “Item 1 Business—Affiliation Agreements with Sprint PCS—services agreements”, Sprint has notified us that, effective January 1, 2007, the per-average-monthly-subscriber rate we pay for certain back-office services provided by Sprint increased from $6.75 per average monthly subscriber to $7.50 for 2007, $7.09 for 2008 and $6.81 for 2009. If the 2007 rate for these services had been in effect in 2006, we would have incurred additional expenses to Sprint of approximately $4.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. Although we strongly disagree with Sprint’s proposed new rates and, pursuant to the terms of our affiliation agreements with Sprint, have submitted the determination of the new rates to binding arbitration, beginning on January 1, 2007, we started paying Sprint’s proposed rate. If the arbitration panel imposes rates different than the ones proposed by Sprint, then the rates imposed by the panel would be retroactively applied to January 1, 2007. In addition, because we incur the majority of these costs on a per-average-monthly-subscriber basis we expect the aggregate cost for such services to increase as the number of our subscribers increases. Sprint PCS has the right to terminate any service provided under our affiliation agreements upon nine months’ prior written notice; provided, however, that if we desire to continue receiving such service, Sprint 40 PCS has agreed that it will assist us in developing that function internally or locating a third-party vendor that will provide that service. Although Sprint PCS has agreed that if it terminates the services, it will reimburse us for expenses we incur in transitioning to any service internally or to a third party, if Sprint PCS terminates a service for which we have not developed or are unable to develop a cost-effective alternative, our operating costs may increase beyond our expectations and our operations may be interrupted or restricted. We do not currently have a contingency plan if Sprint PCS terminates a service we currently receive from it or if we cannot reach agreement with Sprint on new rates. If Sprint PCS does not maintain control over its licensed spectrum, our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS may be terminated which will negatively affect our operating results. Sprint PCS, not us, holds the licenses necessary to provide wireless services in our territory. The FCC requires that licensees like Sprint PCS maintain control of their licensed systems and not delegate control to third-party operators or managers without the FCC’s consent. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS reflect an arrangement that the parties believe meets the FCC requirements for licensee control of licensed spectrum. However, if the FCC were to determine that any of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS need to be modified to increase the level of licensee control, we have agreed with Sprint PCS to use our best efforts to modify the agreements to comply with applicable law. If we cannot agree with Sprint PCS to modify the agreements, those agreements may be terminated. If the agreements are terminated, we would no longer be a part of the Sprint PCS network and we would not be able to conduct our business. The FCC may fail to renew the Sprint PCS wireless licenses under certain circumstances, which would prevent us from providing wireless services. Sprint PCS wireless licenses are subject to renewal and revocation by the FCC. Certain Sprint PCS wireless licenses in our territory are scheduled to expire in 2007. Sprint has filed renewal applications for those licenses expiring in April 2007 and we expect Sprint to file renewal applications for those licenses expiring in June 2007. We expect that all of these licenses will be renewed by Sprint for additional ten-year terms. The FCC has adopted specific standards that apply to wireless personal communications services license renewals. Any failure by Sprint PCS or us to comply with these standards could result in the non-renewal of the Sprint PCS licenses for our territory. Additionally, if Sprint PCS does not demonstrate to the FCC that Sprint PCS has met the construction requirements for each of its wireless personal communications services licenses, it can lose those licenses. If Sprint PCS loses its licenses in our territory for any of these reasons, we and our subsidiaries would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses. If Sprint PCS loses its licenses in another territory, Sprint PCS or the applicable PCS Affiliate of Sprint would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses and our ability to offer nationwide calling plans would be diminished and potentially more costly. Parts of our territory have limited licensed spectrum, which may adversely affect the quality of our service. In the majority of our markets, Sprint PCS has licenses covering 20 MHz or 30 MHz of spectrum. However, Sprint PCS has licenses covering only 10 MHz in approximately 25% of our territory, which represent approximately 3.8 million in total population out of a total population of over 15.0 million residents in our territory. In the future, as our subscriber base increases in those areas, this limited licensed spectrum may not be able to accommodate increases in call volume or changes or upgrades in technology and may lead to increased dropped calls and may limit our ability to offer enhanced services. We may also have to increase our capital expenditures and/or operating expenses in an attempt to compensate for this lack of licensed spectrum. It is more difficult and expensive to deploy EV-DO Rev. A in these markets, and, as a result, we may not be able to remain technologically competitive in these markets. 41 We rely on Sprint PCS for a substantial amount of our financial information. If that information is not accurate, our ability to accurately report our financial data could be adversely affected, and the investment community could lose confidence in us. Under our affiliation agreements, Sprint performs our billing, customer care and collections, PCS network systems support, inventory logistics, long-distance transport and national third party sales support. The data provided by Sprint related to these functions it performs for us is the primary source for our service revenue and for a significant portion of our cost of service and roaming, and selling and marketing expenses included in our statement of operations. We use this data to record our financial results and prepare our financial statements. If Sprint fails to deliver timely and accurate information, this may lead us to make adverse decisions and inaccurate assumptions for future business plans and could also negatively affect our cash flows as Sprint collects our receivables and remits a net amount to us that is based on the financial information it provides. In addition, delays and inaccuracies which are material could adversely affect the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and if we later identify material errors in that data provided to us, we may be required to restate our financial statements. If that occurs as to us or any other PCS Affiliate of Sprint, investors and securities analysts may lose confidence in us. If Sprint does not succeed, our business may not succeed. If Sprint has a significant disruption to its business plan or PCS network, fails to operate its business in an efficient manner or suffers a weakening of its brand name, our business and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. For example for the three months ended December 31, 2006, Sprint reported negative post-paid subscriber additions. If Sprint should have significant financial problems, including bankruptcy, our business would suffer material adverse consequences, which could include termination or revision of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. The merger between Sprint and Nextel and the outcome of our litigation relating thereto may have an adverse effect on us in ways that would be beyond our control. As discussed above in “—Litigation Against Sprint,” we have been, and continue to be, engaged in litigation with Sprint regarding its merger with Nextel. Although the Delaware ruling is final, the Illinois ruling is not, as Sprint has appealed the ruling. The Delaware ruling does not protect us from all of the ways in which Sprint may operate the legacy Nextel business in a manner that would have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that Sprint desires to exploit limitations of the Delaware ruling, our business may be adversely affected. For example, the ruling provides that Sprint may engage in limited re-branding of the legacy Nextel stores in our service area. We do not know how or if Sprint will attempt to re-brand the legacy Nextel stores in our service area. Additionally, in light of certain representations that Sprint made to the Delaware court, the ruling does not impose additional restrictions on Sprint’s use of our confidential information. It is difficult for us to monitor Sprint’s compliance with its representations as to confidentiality. If we believe that Sprint is violating the Delaware ruling, we may need to enforce the ruling through contempt proceedings in Delaware. On December 11, 2006, we filed a motion for contempt against Sprint in the Delaware court, which was denied without limiting our right to seek clarification of the final ruling or pursue additional relief with respect to Sprint’s use of certain brands and marks (such as “Fair & Flexible”) to offer iDEN products and services in the former Horizon PCS markets. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. With respect to the Illinois ruling, we cannot predict the outcome of the appeal. If we do not prevail on appeal, Sprint may be permitted to change how it operates the legacy Nextel business in our territory in a manner that has an adverse effect on our business and operations. If we do not prevail on appeal, our stock price may be adversely affected. Additionally, the Illinois ruling has been stayed pending appeal. As a condition of the stay, Sprint must continue to comply with the Forbearance Agreement—which by its terms has expired—and the Delaware ruling in iPCS Wireless’s service area. As noted above, the Delaware ruling does not protect us from all of the ways in which Sprint may operate the legacy Nextel business in a 42 manner that would have a material adverse effect on us. The protections afforded by the Forbearance Agreement are limited as well. Notwithstanding the rulings and the Forbearance Agreement, Sprint’s ownership and operation of the legacy Nextel business in our territory has, among other things, caused customer confusion in our territory that is having an adverse effect on our business and operations. We do not know whether it is possible to reach agreement on mutually satisfactory terms for revised affiliation agreements, particularly in light of the lawsuits. Any such revised affiliation agreements may require us to modify our exclusivity, make significant payments to lease or acquire assets relating to the legacy Nextel network in our territory, purchase legacy Nextel subscribers in our territory and/or commit to a further build-out and expansion of our PCS network beyond what is required under our existing affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. There is no assurance that we will have adequate funds on hand or the ability to borrow such funds in order to acquire the network assets or subscribers or to otherwise modify our PCS network. In addition, any borrowing would increase our existing substantial leverage. We believe that our stock price has been, and continues to be, affected by market speculation involving potential changes in our relationship with Sprint as a result of the Sprint/Nextel merger and the final outcome of our disputes with Sprint, including our pending litigation and arbitration proceedings against Sprint. We believe that the market speculation has been further fueled by changes in the relationships between Sprint and other PCS Affiliates of Sprint, including Sprint’s acquisition of six other PCS Affiliates of Sprint since August 2005. Accordingly, the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Moreover, as a result of Sprint’s acquisitions of PCS Affiliates, Sprint may not devote as much of its personnel and resources to us and the other three PCS Affiliates of Sprint, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to the Wireless Telecommunications Industry We may experience a high rate of subscriber turnover, which would adversely affect our financial performance. The wireless telecommunications industry in general, and Sprint PCS and the PCS Affiliates of Sprint in particular, including us, have experienced a high rate of subscriber turnover, commonly known as churn. We believe this higher churn rate has resulted from Sprint PCS’s programs for marketing its services to sub-prime credit subscribers and Sprint PCS’ focus on adding subscribers from the consumer segment of the industry, rather than the business segment. As a result, we have seen an increase in bad debt expense related to our subscribers, which also leads to higher churn. Additionally, significant competition in our industry and general economic conditions may cause our future churn rate to be higher than our historical rate. Factors that may contribute to higher churn include: · inability or unwillingness of subscribers to pay, resulting in credit-related deactivations, which accounted for approximately 42% of our subscriber deactivations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006; · subscriber mix and credit class, particularly sub-prime credit subscribers, which accounted for approximately 25% of our subscriber base as of December 31, 2006; · attractiveness of our competitors’ products, services and pricing, coupled with the wireless local number portability (“WLNP”) requirement enabling subscribers to keep their telephone numbers and thereby, making turnover easier; · network performance and coverage relative to our competitors; · customer service; · failure by Sprint or us to offer competitive rates, service offerings, handset pricing and customer retention benefits to existing customers; 43 · any increased prices for services in the future; · customer confusion as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger; and · any future changes by us in the products and services we offer or in the terms under which we offer our products or services, especially to sub-prime credit subscribers. A high rate of subscriber turnover could adversely affect our competitive position, liquidity, financial position, results of operations and our costs of, or losses incurred in, obtaining new subscribers, especially because we subsidize most of the costs of initial purchases of handsets by subscribers Regulation by government agencies and taxing authorities may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. Our operations and those of Sprint PCS are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and those of Sprint PCS, thereby increasing our costs of doing business. For example, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could subject us to increased income, sales, gross receipts or other tax costs or require us to alter the structure of our current relationship with Sprint PCS. Concerns over health risks and safety posed by the use of wireless handsets may reduce consumer demand for our services. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may: · be linked to various health problems resulting from continued or excessive use, including cancer; · interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers; and · cause explosions if used while fueling an automobile. Widespread concerns over radio frequency emissions may expose us to potential litigation, discourage the use of wireless handsets or result in additional regulation imposing restrictions or increasing requirements on the location and operation of cell sites or the use or design of wireless handsets. Any resulting decrease in demand for these services or increase in the cost of complying with additional regulations could impair our ability to profitably operate our business. Such concerns may result in the loss of subscribers, which may impair our ability to maintain and increase revenues and lower our operating margin. In addition, we may need to dedicate a larger portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to comply with such additional regulations. Due to safety concerns, some state and local legislatures have passed or are considering legislation restricting the use of wireless telephones while driving automobiles. Concerns over safety risks and the effect of future legislation, if adopted in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. In addition, it may discourage use of our wireless devices and decrease our revenues from subscribers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Further, litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. 44 Market saturation could limit or decrease our rate of new subscriber additions and increase costs to keep our current subscribers. Intense competition in the wireless telecommunications industry could cause prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline. If prices drop, our rate of net subscriber additions will take on greater significance in improving our financial condition and results of operations. However, as our and our competitors’ penetration rates in our markets increase over time, our rate of adding net subscribers could decrease. If this decrease were to happen, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs through equipment upgrades and other retention costs to keep our current subscribers from switching to our competitors. Significant competition in the wireless telecommunications industry may result in our competitors offering new services or lower prices, which could prevent us from operating profitably and may cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. Competition has caused, and we anticipate that competition will continue to cause, the market prices for two-way wireless products and services to decline. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the wireless telecommunications industry. If prices for our services continue to decline, it could adversely affect our ability to increase revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. In addition, the viability of our business depends upon, among other things, our ability to compete with other wireless providers on reliability, quality of service, availability of voice and data features and customer care. In addition, the pricing of our services may be affected by competition, including the entry of new service providers into our markets. Furthermore, there has been a recent trend in the wireless telecommunications industry toward consolidation of wireless service providers, which we expect to lead to larger competitors over time. Our dependence on Sprint PCS to develop competitive products and services and the requirement that we obtain Sprint PCS’ consent to sell non-Sprint approved equipment may limit our ability to keep pace with our competitors on the introduction of new products, services and equipment. Some of our competitors are larger than us, possess greater resources and more extensive coverage areas, and may market other services, such as landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access, along with their wireless communications services. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors. We are a consumer business and an economic downturn in the United States involving significantly lowered consumer spending could negatively affect our results of operations. Our primary subscriber base is composed of individual consumers, and in the event of an economic downturn in the United States in which spending by individual consumers drops significantly, our business may be negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 45 ITEM 