D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this Annual Report, including our consolidated 6 Table of Contents financial statements and related notes and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk.” Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these factors. This Annual Report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to the Telecommunications Industry and Our Business We are subject to intense competition in all of the markets in which we operate, which may subject us to intense price competition and could affect our revenues The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. KT Corporation is our main competitor in both the broadband Internet access services and local telephony services markets. As of April 30, 2006, KT had market share of approximately 49.9%, in the broadband services market in Korea and market share of approximately 92.9% in the local telephony services market. KT has significantly greater capital resources and owns significantly more fixed assets (including an integrated telecommunications network throughout Korea) than we do. With respect to the broadband services market, KT has an extensive fiber optic backbone network throughout Korea and is upgrading its last-mile connections and related transmission facilities to provide DSL services to its subscribers at speeds comparable to ours. We believe KT is focusing its upgrading process and marketing efforts on targeted high density and high demand areas. With respect to the telephony services market, KT was the sole provider of local telephony services prior to the commencement of our operations in April 1999 and operates an extensive fixed-line network in Korea. We remain KT’s main competitor in this market with a relatively small market share. Dacom Corporation, the only other local telephony licensee, has also been offering commercial local telephony services since January 2005. In addition, certain telecommunications business operators and facilities-based telecommunications operators were granted licenses to provide newly established Internet telephony services and began to provide services through interconnections with existing local and mobile telephony service providers. Continued upgrading or other competitive pressure by KT, Dacom or Internet telephony service providers could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also facing competition from others in the broadband Internet access services market. In particular, since the MIC granted Powercomm, a subsidiary of Dacom, a network service provider, or NSP, license to provide retail broadband Internet access service, Powercomm has launched aggressive marketing activities to acquire new subscribers for 100Mbps optical LAN services and 10Mbps cable modem services using its own network. As of the end of April 2006, Powercomm had a market share of approximately 4.4% and plans to attract approximately 1.3 million subscribers by the end of 2006. Since late 2004, Dacom has been strengthening its retail broadband Internet access business by using the network facilities of Powercomm Corporation, a subsidiary of Dacom, and launching LAN-based Internet services. Dacom’s market share was 1.4% as of the end of April 2006. We are also facing competition from cable television network system operators and relay operators who have a market share of 10.6% as of the end of April 2006. Entries by competitors such as Powercomm in the broadband Internet access market are further intensifying competition in our market. Due to this intensifying competition, our market share fell to 28.5% at the end of April 2006, a 0.7 percentage point decrease from the end of January 2006. As a result of having to compete with KT in all of our markets and new competitors such as Powercomm in the broadband Internet access services market, we currently encounter significant pricing pressure and other forms of competitive pressures. Increased price or other competition could adversely affect our revenues per subscriber, the overall profitability of our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing and support capabilities to compete successfully. In addition, future acquisitions, business combinations and alliances in the telecommunications industry may create additional competitors with resources greater than ours or strengthen existing competitors. For example, in January 2005, Dacom 7 Table of Contents announced that it intends to merge its operations with Powercomm. The integration synergies generated from that merger may significantly increase the competitive strength of that combined entity. Any significant changes to the market share or resources of our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Targeted benefits from our merger with Korea Thrunet Co., Ltd., or Thrunet, may not be achieved if the remaining integration work does not proceed as planned or if an unexpected change in the regulatory environment occurs We completed the merger transaction with Thrunet as of January 1, 2006. We also finished the integration of the computer systems of both companies. We plan to finalize the integration of call centers and the transfer of some Thrunet subscribers who had used a leased network to our own network by the end of the second quarter of 2006. However, if the remaining integration work is delayed or if an unexpected change in the regulatory environment occurs, the benefits targeted from the merger with Thrunet may be smaller than previously expected. We may not be able to maintain our current broadband subscriber base which amounts to about 3.6 million subscribers because of severe competition in Korea’s broadband market The Korean telecommunications industry is one of the most developed in Asia, particularly in terms of broadband penetration. According to data derived from the MIC, the broadband penetration rate, as a percentage of Korean households with broadband Internet access, had reached 80% as of April 30, 2006, and broadband subscribers increased from approximately 3.9 million as of December 31, 2000 to approximately 12.5 million as of April 30, 2006. With the rapid growth of broadband penetration, broadband Internet subscriber growth has decreased significantly. As a result, it may be difficult for us to maintain our 3.6 million subscriber base amid competition with KT, which is the dominant player in the market, Powercomm, which has entered the broadband Internet market using its own network, and cable television network system operators, which are in an advantageous position in terms of local market recognition and price. Accordingly, our ability to generate additional revenues from our broadband operations will depend substantially on our ability to retain our existing broadband subscribers and increase the usage of our services by providing competitive and technologically up-to-date broadband and value-added services. The profitability of our broadband business and our overall financial condition may be adversely affected if we fail to retain our existing subscribers or increase the usage of our services, or develop other sources of revenue, in a cost-effective manner. The telecommunications industry is capital intensive and subject to rapid changes in technology The telecommunications industry is capital intensive and subject to rapid and ongoing technological changes. In particular, Korea is experiencing the beginning of convergence between voice, data and broadcasting, and fixed line and mobile, technologies. Government initiatives or policies, changing market demands and consumer trends and new technological advances may require us to adopt new technologies which could render our existing technology less competitive or obsolete. For example, the Government is currently envisioning a Broadband Converged Network which will combine broadband and mobile technologies and include terrestrial and satellite video broadcasting. This rapid technological evolution has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on the speed and quality of our services and, in turn, the pricing of our services. In addition, we may require substantial capital expenditure and access to related and enabling technologies in order to develop and integrate any new technology with existing platforms and to comply with new industry standards, including any implementation of the Broadband Converged Network. We may be unable to integrate new technology into our network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our network, business, financial condition and results of operations and on our ability to compete with other operators who implement the new technology more successfully. There can also be no assurance that new technology adopted by us will be profitable. 8 Table of Contents The Government has had, and continues to have, significant control and influence over the development of the telecommunications industry in Korea The Government has had, and continues to have, significant control and influence over the development of the telecommunications industry in Korea. Under Korean law, the Government, primarily through the MIC, has authority to regulate the telecommunications industry. The MIC is responsible for, among other things, licensing telecommunications operators, monitoring the rates charged by some telecommunications operators, including us, and setting standards and policies which affect pricing, competition, marketing, foreign investment, frequency allocation, technology choices, recommended levels of research and development spending, interconnection fee and other arrangements. Each agreement for interconnection with other service providers is subject to approval by, or reporting requirements to, the Korea Communications Commission. In addition, if the Communications Commission finds that we are engaged in unfair business practices, including the implementation of a pricing structure that restricts fair competition or which is against the interests of our service users, it may order us to take corrective measures or impose an administrative fine of up to 3% of our average annual revenues for the three years preceding the violation. The Government also regulates the Internet exchanges through which all broadband networks are connected to the Internet. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Korean Telecommunications Laws and Regulations” for a description of the regulatory environment in Korea. No assurance can be given that the Government will not change existing regulations, or impose additional regulations, that will have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly in light of increasing technological convergence. For example, the Presidential Enforcement Decree of the Telecommunications Business Law prohibits any telecommunications service provider from offering bundled sales of telecommunications services or products that the MIC determines to be adverse to consumer interests. In making this determination, the MIC may weigh the advantages of cost-savings or increased convenience for the consumer as a result of the bundling against the disadvantages of any anti-competitive effects of the bundling. If the MIC determines our bundled sales to be adverse to consumer interests and the MIC were to exercise its discretion to prohibit us from offering bundled services, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In general, the MIC has promoted, and continues to promote, fair and effective competition in the telecommunications industry and we have benefited significantly from such policy initiatives. The MIC’s facilities provision policy, which requires dominant operators to provide their essential facilities to competitors upon request, and local loop unbundling regulations, under which we can use KT’s local loop facilities, have allowed us and other competitors to compete more effectively with dominant operators which may have more capital resources than we do. In particular, the MIC’s designation of KT as a dominant operator in both the local telephony services and the Internet access services markets has been effective in preventing KT from exercising its market power. As a dominant operator, KT is subject to more stringent regulations and restrictions on its ability to change its local telephony rates and Internet access rates. There can be no assurance that the MIC will continue to promote competition in the telecommunications industry and any reduction in the MIC’s support for competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our licenses from the MIC are subject to certain conditions and may be subject to future conditions imposed by the MIC We operate our telecommunications businesses pursuant to various licenses granted by the MIC. See “Item 4.B. Business Overview—Licensing.” The MIC may suspend or revoke our licenses or impose fines on us under certain circumstances, including the violation of telecommunications laws and regulations and the breach of any conditions of the relevant license. Although we believe we are in general compliance with telecommunications laws and regulations and the conditions of our licenses, suspension or revocation of any license required for us to operate any of our telecommunications businesses would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We outsource a significant portion of our sales force needs. Our lack of direct control over our outsourced sales force’s actions may materially affect our sales and marketing efforts As of April 30, 2006, we had 463 employees in our marketing and sales department. However, in order to rapidly expand the coverage of our marketing and sales efforts in a cost-efficient manner, we outsource a significant portion of our sales force needs. In 2005, we acquired about 91% of our new broadband services subscribers and about 68% of our new voice services subscribers through our outside sales force. The outside sales force and its employees are not employees of hanarotelecom and the amount of control we exercise over their activities is necessarily limited. If our training, compensation and monitoring programs fail to ensure the quality and performance of our outside sales force, our sales and marketing efforts will be materially affected and our performance, including the number of new subscribers, could suffer. Certain major shareholders have a significant influence over our management and operations A consortium of investors comprised of companies or partnerships which are directly or indirectly controlled and managed by the AIG Asian Infrastructure Fund II, the AIG Asian Opportunity Fund, Newbridge Capital, Inc. and TVG Capital Partners, Ltd., owned an aggregate of 39.56% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2005. See “Item 7.A. Major Shareholders.” Pursuant to an investment agreement between us and those principal shareholders, we have agreed not to take certain significant corporate actions without the consent of those principal shareholders so long as they and their affiliates continue to hold an aggregate of at least 15% or more of our outstanding common shares. In addition, pursuant to certain other agreements, certain of the principal shareholders have the right, among other things, to nominate directors to our board, to nominate our chief financial officer, to make proposals to our board of directors and to discuss our business and affairs with our board of directors, officers and independent accountants. The interests of those principal shareholders may, in certain circumstances, differ from the interests of the other holders of our securities. The inability to lease networks from third parties could materially affect our ability to provide services We lease a substantial portion of our network from third parties including telecommunications operators. We lease from Korea Electric Power Corporation, or KEPCO, ancillary facilities such as electric poles and conduit ducts for use in building our own local fiber optic network and our own HFC networks. Our agreement with KEPCO to lease its ancillary facilities allows us to expand our network coverage at a lower cost. Accordingly, the termination of the lease agreements with KEPCO could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Furthermore, any failure by KEPCO to properly maintain its ancillary facilities could result in service disruptions or reduced data transmission quality. In areas that are not covered by our network, we have entered into non-exclusive network lease agreements with cable television network system operators, relay operators and Powercomm. Our competitors also have, or are trying to establish, relationships with these cable television network system operators, relay operators or Powercomm. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with these cable television network system operators, relay operators and Powercomm. In particular, in connection with Dacom’s marketing of LAN-based Internet services, cable modem services and VDSL services, Dacom uses Powercomm’s network. In addition, in August 2005, the MIC granted Powercomm, a subsidiary of Dacom, an NSP license to provide retail broadband Internet access service. Dacom’s focus on the retail broadband Internet access market in conjunction with Powercomm and Powercomm’s retail broadband Internet access service may prevent us from continuing to lease our network on similar terms from Powercomm, which may require us to make significant capital expenditures to build our own last-mile connections in those areas. 10 Table of Contents Our networks may be vulnerable to security breaches, piracy and hacking Despite the implementation of security measures, our networks may be vulnerable to computer viruses, piracy, hacking or similar disruptive problems. Computer viruses or problems caused by third parties could lead to disruptions of our services to our customers. Fixing such problems caused by computer viruses or security breaches may require the interruption, delay or temporary suspension of our services, which could result in lost revenue and penalties payable to affected customers. Breaches of our network security, including through piracy or hacking, may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition and may require us to incur further expenditures to put in place more advanced security systems to prevent any unauthorized access to our networks. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or obtain adequate financing on acceptable terms or at all to implement our business plan in the mid- to long-term As a result of the rapid expansion of our business and the substantial operating losses we incurred in the past, we have principally relied on equity and debt financings to fund our operations and have significant debt and debt service and repayment obligations. In order to maintain our competitive position and continue to meet the increasing demands for service quality, availability and competitive pricing, we may need to incur additional capital expenditures on enhancing our networks and expanding our subscriber base. Our actual future financing requirements will also depend on our future performance, market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, we may need to raise additional funds through long-term borrowings, the proceeds of equity and corporate bond offerings and vendor financing to acquire complementary businesses, develop new products or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or unanticipated competitive pressures or technological or marketing hurdles. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be dependent on our future performance and market conditions, among other factors. We cannot assure you that long-term borrowings, vendor financing, or any alternative financing will be available on favorable terms, or at all. Moreover, under current Korean law our ability to sell additional voting shares to foreign investors is limited. As a result, our options to raise equity capital are more limited than other companies. If we are unable to obtain sufficient new debt or equity financing, we may need to modify, delay or abandon elements of our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will be exposed to increased risks as we expand the range of our services As we expand the range of our products and services beyond our traditional business lines and as the complexity of our services and network systems increases, we will be exposed to new and increasingly complex risks. We may have only limited experience with the operational risks or new technologies related to the expanded range of our services. To the extent we expand our service offerings through acquisitions, we face risks relating to the integration of acquired businesses with our existing operations. Our operational systems may prove to be inadequate and may not work in all cases or to the degree required. In addition, our efforts to offer new services may not succeed if market opportunities develop more slowly than expected or if the profitability of opportunities is undermined by competitive pressures. We may be liable for information disseminated over our Internet services network The liability of Internet service providers, or ISPs, under Korean law for information carried on or disseminated through their networks is not completely settled. New court decisions, laws, regulations and other activities regarding content liability may significantly affect the development and profitability of companies offering online and Internet access services, including us. The imposition upon ISPs of potential liability relating to information carried on or disseminated through the ISPs’ systems, such as liability for computer viruses, defamatory speech or copyright infringement, could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability. Such measures may require that we spend substantial 11 Table of Contents resources or discontinue some services or content offerings. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We could be adversely affected if we experience a failure of our equipment We do not carry “business interruption” insurance. A major failure of our equipment or a natural disaster affecting any part of our network or equipment could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We could be subject to liability and regulatory action arising from claims or other actions relating to our handling of subscriber information. We maintain various information regarding our subscribers. Various laws and regulations in Korea and other countries impose restrictions on the use and dissemination of that information by us. We have put in place comprehensive personal information security management measures across the company and at any third parties with which we may share subscriber information under outsourcing arrangements, to comply with the applicable standards. If we are required to implement further personal information security measures, we may have to incur additional costs and our financial condition could be negatively affected. In the event that personal information about subscribers held by us or a third party is leaked or improperly accessed despite these security measures, we may be subject to liability such as damage payments or regulatory actions arising out of a failure to protect such information. In addition, such incidents could create a negative public perception of our operations, systems or brand, which may in turn decrease customer and market confidence and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, there have been recent press reports about subscriber information collected by certain Internet service providers, including us, being illegally sold by current or previous employees of the Internet service providers to third parties, who in turn used the information to distribute spam e-mail and make unsolicited telephone calls. A Korean law firm is currently soliciting plaintiffs who were allegedly harmed by the leakage of subscriber information to file a civil lawsuit against those service providers, including us. Risks Related to Korea There are unique economic and political risks associated with investing in Korean companies We generate substantially all of our revenue from operations in Korea. Our future performance will depend in large part on Korea’s future economic growth. Adverse developments in Korea’s economy or in political or social conditions in Korea may have an adverse effect on our number of subscribers, call volumes and results of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The pace of economic recovery in Korea over the past several years has been volatile. Economic indicators in the past few years have shown mixed signs of recovery and uncertainty, and future recovery or growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Events related to terrorist attacks in the United States that took place on September 11, 2001, recent developments in the Middle East, including the war in Iraq, higher oil prices, the general weakness of the global economy and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in Asia and other parts of the world have increased the uncertainty of world economic prospects in general and continue to have an adverse effect on the Korean economy. Any future deterioration of the Korean economy would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could adversely affect Korea’s economy in the future include: • financial problems relating to chaebols, or their suppliers, and their potential adverse impact on Korea’s financial sector; 12 Table of Contents • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including oil prices), exchange rates (including depreciation of the U.S. dollar or Japanese yen), interest rates and stock markets; • adverse developments in the economies of countries such as the United States, China and Japan, to which Korea exports, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere, which developments could result in a loss of confidence in the Korean economy; • social and labor unrest or declining consumer confidence or spending resulting from layoffs, increasing unemployment and lower levels of income; and • a deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between Korea and its trading partners or allies, including such deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy. Developments that adversely affect Korea’s economic recovery will likely also decrease demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Increased international tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and the market value of our common shares Relations between Korea and North Korea have been tense over most of Korea’s modern history. The level of tension between Korea and North Korea has fluctuated and may increase or change abruptly as a result of current and future events, including ongoing contacts at the highest levels of the governments of Korea and North Korea and increasing hostility between North Korea and the United States. In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency, and has reportedly resumed activity at its Yongbyon power plant. In January 2003, North Korea announced its intention to withdraw from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, demanding that the United States sign a non-aggression pact as a condition to North Korea dismantling its nuclear program. In August 2003, representatives of Korea, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia held multilateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to the nuclear weapons program of North Korea. In February 2005, North Korea announced that it possessed nuclear weapons. In September 2005, North Korea agreed to end its nuclear weapons program, and the six participating nations signed a draft preliminary accord, pursuant to which North Korea agreed to dismantle its existing nuclear weapons, abandon efforts to produce new future weapons and readmit international inspectors to its nuclear facilities. In return, the other five nations participating in the talks, China, Japan, Korea, Russia and the United States, expressed willingness to provide North Korea with energy assistance and other economic support. The six parties agreed to hold further talks in November 2005. However, one day after the joint statement was released, North Korea announced that it would not dismantle its nuclear weapons program unless the United States agreed to provide civilian nuclear reactors in return, a demand that the United States rejected. We cannot assure you that future negotiations will result in a final agreement on North Korea’s nuclear program, including critical details, such as implementation and timing, or that the level of tensions between Korea and North Korea will not escalate. In addition, in recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapon and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. Any further increase in tensions resulting, for example, from a break-down in contacts or test of long-range nuclear missiles, coupled with continuing nuclear programs by North Korea or an outbreak in military hostilities, could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and could lead to a decline in the market value of our ADSs. 13 Table of Contents Korea’s new legislation allowing class action suits related to securities transactions may expose us to additional litigation risk Effective January 1, 2005, a new law became effective that allows class action suits to be brought by shareholders of companies listed on the KRX Stock Market or the KRX KOSDAQ Market, including us, for losses incurred in connection with purchases and sales of securities and other securities transactions arising from (1) false or inaccurate statements provided in registration statements, prospectuses, business reports and audit reports and omission of material information in such documents; (2) insider trading; or (3) market manipulation. This new law applies to companies such as ourselves listed on the KRX Stock Market or the KRX KOSDAQ Market whose total assets are equal to or greater than Won 2,000 billion at the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year. However, in the event that certain elements of a financial statement for the fiscal year ended before January 1, 2005, were not in compliance with the then-effective accounting standards, this law does not apply, if such non-compliance is cured or addressed in the financial statement for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, and such corrected information is submitted to the Financial Supervisory Commission, or FSC, the Korea Exchange, Inc., or KRX, or made publicly available. This law permits, subject to court approval, 50 or more shareholders who collectively held 0.01% or more of the shares of a company at the time when the cause of action arose to bring a class action suit against, among others, the company and its directors, officers and auditors. It is uncertain how the courts will apply this law. Class action suits can be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and can divert management time and attention from the operation of a business. Although we are not aware of any basis for such suit being brought against us, nor of any such suits that are pending or threatened, any such litigation brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Owning Our Shares or ADSs Rights of shareholders under Korean law may be different from those under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. Our Articles of Incorporation, the regulations of our board of directors, the Korean Commercial Code and the Korean Securities and Exchange Act govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights may be different from those that would apply if we were a non-Korean corporation. Shareholders’ rights under Korean law are different in some respects from shareholders’ rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction outside of Korea. For a detail discussion of the relevant provisions under the Korean Commercial Code and our Articles of Incorporation, see “Item 10.B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” Restrictions on foreign ownership of our voting shares imposed by Korean law may depress the price of our common shares The Telecommunications Business Law of Korea restricts foreign ownership in voting shares of a network service provider, including us. At present, a foreign government, foreigner or any legal entity owned by a foreigner that has 15% or more of its outstanding voting shares, including stock-equivalents and investment equity such as depositary receipts, owned by a foreign government, foreigner or any specially related person as the largest shareholder may not own more than 49% of the aggregate number of the issued and outstanding voting shares of any network service provider. In the event that such foreign ownership restrictions are violated, the holders of shares in excess of the legal limitations cannot exercise voting rights with respect to the shares exceeding such limit and the MIC may require that corrective measures be taken to comply with the legal restrictions. In addition, the MIC may impose a mandatory performance fee on the non-compliant party and the service provider may refuse to enter the violating shareholder’s shares in excess of the legal limitations in its corporate register. As of May 30, 2006, 14 Table of Contents foreign ownership in our voting shares was approximately 49%, including the 39.45% share ownership held by a consortium of investors led by AIG Asian Infrastructure Fund II and AIG Asian Opportunity Fund, Newbridge Capital, Inc. and TVG Capital Partners, Ltd. The market price of our common shares may be, and may continue to be, lower because of these limitations on foreign share ownership in our voting shares. A stricter application of the rules relating to foreign share ownership may also negatively impact our share price in the future. Additional restrictions on acquiring a large stake in our common shares imposed by Korean law may depress the market price of our common shares Prior to making an investment in 10% or more of the outstanding voting shares of a Korean company, foreign investors are generally required under the Foreign Investment Promotion Law of Korea to submit a report to a bank located in Korea (which may include a non-Korean bank’s Korean branch office) that is licensed under the Foreign Exchange Transaction Act to engage in foreign currency transactions or the Korea Trade Investment Promotion Agency pursuant to a delegation by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy of Korea. Failure to comply with this reporting requirement may result in the imposition of criminal sanctions. Subsequent sales by the investor of its shares in the company will also require a prior report to the bank. The Telecommunications Business Law also requires the MIC to undertake a public interest review when a shareholder of a service provider becomes a controlling shareholder of the service provider. Depending on the review, which assesses the impact of the transaction on the national security, public good and order of society, the MIC may order an amendment or suspension of the relevant contract, suspension of the voting rights, or ultimately, a sale of shares. These restrictions may discourage some investors from acquiring large positions in our common shares and as a result, may have lowered, and may continue to lower, the market price of our common shares. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may affect the dollar value of our ADSs and dividends payable to holders of our ADSs Market prices for our ADSs may fall if the value of the Korean Won declines against the U.S. dollar. Although we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, any dividends that we do declare and pay will be paid to the depositary for the ADSs in Korean Won and then converted by the depositary into U.S. dollars. As a result, the U.S. dollar amount of cash dividends and other cash payments made to holders of our ADSs would be reduced if the value of the Korean Won declines against the U.S. dollar. As a holder of ADSs, you have fewer rights than a shareholder has, and you must act through the depositary to exercise these rights The rights of our shareholders under Korean law to take actions including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining our accounting books and records and exercising appraisal rights are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian, is the record holder of the shares underlying the ADSs, a holder of ADSs may not be entitled to the same rights as a shareholder. In your capacity as an ADS holder, you are not able to bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and records or exercise appraisal rights except through the depositary. In addition, the Korean Commercial Code and our Articles of Incorporation require us, with certain exceptions, to offer shareholders the right to subscribe for new shares of our common shares in proportion to their existing ownership percentage whenever new shares of our common shares are issued. Under the deposit agreement governing the ADSs, if we offer any rights to subscribe for additional shares of our common shares, the depositary under the deposit agreement, after consultation with us, may make such rights available to the holders of ADSs or dispose of such rights on behalf of the holders and make the net proceeds available to them or, if the depositary is unable to take such actions, it may allow the rights to lapse with no consideration to be received by the holders of the ADSs. The depositary is required to make available any rights to subscribe for any securities only when a registration statement under the U.S. 15 Table of Contents Securities Act of 1933 is in effect with respect to the securities or if the offering of the securities is exempt from the registration requirements under the U.S. Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act to enable holders of the ADSs to exercise preemptive rights for our common shares underlying the ADSs, and we cannot assure you that any registration statement would be filed or that an exemption from the registration requirement under the U.S. Securities Act would be available. Holders of ADSs that are not entitled to exercise preemptive rights may thereby suffer dilution of their interests. Future sales of ADSs and common shares could lower our share price If existing shareholders decide to sell large amounts of our shares, the trading price for the ADSs and our shares could fall. We believe that some of our five major shareholders are currently contemplating selling their shares of our common shares. Any announcement of a sale by any major shareholders of our shares or any such sale may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common shares or the ADSs. It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or senior management, or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States We are a stock corporation organized under the laws of the Republic of Korea. Almost all of our directors and senior management reside outside of the United States. Most of our assets and those persons are located in Korea and elsewhere outside of the United States. It may not be possible, therefore, for U.S. investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to enforce against us or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We believe that there is doubt as to the enforceability in Korea, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of claims predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. 