Risk Factors Various provisions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including those set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations The merger between Sprint and Nextel, the outcome of our litigation relating thereto and other developments between Sprint Nextel and us and other PCS affiliates may have an adverse effect on us We cannot predict the outcome of our litigation against Sprint Nextel relating to the merger of Sprint and Nextel and the resulting violations of our exclusivity and other rights under the management agreement. See “Item 1. Business¾Sprint Developments.” We do not know how Sprint Nextel will operate the legacy Nextel business, which is a wireless business that is competitive with ours in our markets, after expiration of the forbearance agreement or if the court issues a ruling in the litigation favoring Sprint. We are highly dependent on Sprint roaming revenues to supplement our core subscriber business. Roaming revenues from Sprint represented 73% of roaming and wholesale revenues in 2005 and 22% of 30 service revenues and produced margins of approximately 85%. If Sprint diverts Sprint PCS roaming traffic from our network to the network of the legacy Nextel business in our markets through the development, introduction and sale of handsets that operate on both networks or through other network or technological changes, this would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows from operations, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Notwithstanding the limitations the forbearance agreement imposes on Sprint Nextel, Sprint Nextel’s ownership and operation of the legacy Nextel business in our markets has, among other things, caused customer confusion in our markets and has had a negative impact on our subscriber growth and subscriber revenues. If, following the expiration of the forbearance agreement or a ruling in the litigation favoring Sprint, Sprint Nextel engages in additional detrimental conduct, some examples of which include the following, subscriber growth and revenues could be adversely affected: · changing the branding of the legacy Nextel operations, products and services in our markets that compete with us to the Sprint brands utilized by us to sell Sprint PCS products and services under our management agreement, including branding of distribution points such as retail stores and national retailers operating in our markets, advertising, marketing materials, product branding and branding of services and rate plans; · sharing our confidential business information with persons at Sprint Nextel who are involved in the business and operations of the legacy Nextel business that competes with us; · inducing and facilitating our Sprint PCS customers to transition their wireless service to Nextel through methods such as direct marketing, advertising, waivers of early termination fees, and customer service interactions; · withholding information from us regarding its future technology, product or pricing planning; and · devoting less personnel and resources to the remaining PCS affiliates including us as a result of Sprint Nextel’s acquisition of more than fifty percent of the subscriber base managed by PCS affiliates prior to the Sprint-Nextel merger. If we do not prevail in our litigation with Sprint Nextel, upon the expiration of the forbearance agreement Sprint Nextel may operate the legacy Nextel business in our markets in a manner that would have an adverse effect on our business and operations, and our stock price may be adversely affected. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial health We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2005, our total outstanding debt was approximately $423.7 million. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flows from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt, which reduces funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and · potentially making us more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which could potentially decrease our ability to compete in our industry. 31 The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions, the outcome of our litigation with Sprint Nextel, and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. The indenture governing our outstanding notes limits our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, materially adversely affect the market value of our securities and our ability to repay our obligations under them. Additionally, the indenture governing our outstanding notes permits us to incur additional indebtedness, which may be secured by some or all of our assets, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. We from time to time evaluate options for additional financings to supplement our liquidity position and maintain maximum financial flexibility. We may not be able to access the credit markets for additional capital if we have insufficient cash to satisfy the needs of our business. We may not be able to achieve our projected growth or obtain sufficient revenues to sustain operating profitability or positive cash flows, which may result in our inability to meet our debt obligations or fund capital expenditures Our business projections reflect continuing growth in our subscriber base. We incurred net losses from our inception in 1999 through the year ended December 31, 2004 as we developed and grew our network, distribution channels and subscriber base. Our future operating profitability and cash flows from operating activities will depend upon many factors, including, among others, the outcome of our litigation against Sprint Nextel and our ability to market Sprint PCS products and services, achieve projected market penetration and manage subscriber turnover rates. If we acquire more new customers than we project, the upfront costs to acquire those customers (including the handset subsidy, commissions and promotional expenses) may result in greater cash used in the near term and, thus, lower cash flows from operations, but provide greater cash flows from operations in later periods. Conversely, if there is a slowdown in new subscriber growth in our markets or the wireless industry generally, we may acquire fewer new customers, which would result in higher cash provided in the near term and, thus, higher cash flows from operations, but provide lower cash flows from operations in later periods. If we do not sustain operating profitability and positive cash flows from operating activities, we may be unable to make interest or principal payments on our debt. We will have to dedicate a substantial portion of any future cash flows from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt and fund capital expenditures, which will reduce funds available for other purposes. Although we have completed our required network coverage build-out, our business requires additional capital expenditures for capacity enhancements, coverage expansions and new technology enhancements. If we do not maintain positive cash flows from operations, or if our operating cash flows are insufficient to cover our debt obligations in the future, we may be unable to operate our business in an effective or competitive manner or make required payments on our debt. If we receive less revenues or incur more fees than we anticipate for PCS roaming from Sprint Nextel, our results of operations may be negatively affected We are paid a fee from Sprint Nextel for every minute and kilobyte that a Sprint PCS subscriber based outside of our markets uses our network. Similarly, we pay a fee to Sprint Nextel for every minute that our customers use the Sprint PCS network outside of our markets. The per-minute and per-kilobyte rates that we receive from Sprint Nextel and that we pay to Sprint Nextel are the same and are fixed until the end of December 2006. Thereafter, the rates will change, based on an agreed-upon formula that may have an adverse effect on us. In addition, Sprint PCS subscribers based in our markets may spend more time in other Sprint PCS coverage areas than we anticipate, and Sprint PCS subscribers based outside of our 32 markets may use our network less than we anticipate. Further, Sprint Nextel could take actions that result in less usage of our network by Sprint PCS subscribers based outside of our markets, such as diverting traffic to another network, which would have an adverse effect on us. As a result, we may receive less Sprint PCS roaming revenue and/or have to pay more in Sprint PCS roaming fees than we anticipate. Our ratio of inbound to outbound roaming with Sprint Nextel was approximately 1.7 to 1 for the year ended December 31, 2005. Revenues from subscribers of wireless communications providers other than Sprint Nextel that roam on our network and revenues from subscribers of MVNOs may decline in the future We derive a significant amount of roaming revenue from wireless communications providers other than Sprint Nextel for permitting their subscribers to roam on our network when they are in our markets. We do not have agreements directly with these wireless providers. Instead, we rely on roaming arrangements Sprint Nextel has negotiated and entered into. We also derive a significant amount of revenues from subscribers of MVNOs who use our network at rates negotiated by Sprint Nextel that could be adjusted downward. If Sprint Nextel agrees to a lower negotiated rate, it would lower our revenues. If the roaming rates offered by Sprint Nextel are not attractive, wireless communications providers with roaming arrangements providing us revenue may decide to build out their own networks in our markets and compete with us directly or enter into roaming arrangements with our competitors who also have networks in our markets. Similarly, MVNOs may attempt to establish more attractive rates with competitors, leading to a reduction in revenues from subscribers of MVNOs using our network. A significant reduction in roaming or MVNO rates or the loss of all or a significant portion of these revenues would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur additional charges against our earnings as a result of any future determination of an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a business combination Our consolidated balance sheet included goodwill and an intangible asset resulting from a business combination totaling approximately $38.1 million and $60.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2005. The intangible asset consisted of the unamortized cost of a Sprint PCS management agreement, which had a remaining useful life of 14 years as of December 31, 2005. There can be no assurance that the recorded amounts of these assets, which represented approximately 18% of our total assets as of December 31, 2005, will ever be realized by us. Any future determination of an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets that requires the write-off of a significant portion of these assets could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless towers or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless towers on favorable terms or at all, we could incur greater operating and capital expenditures and our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted We lease a significant amount of the radio communications sites for our network through master lease agreements with several national communication site management companies. If a master lease agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support the use of its tower sites by us, we would have to find new sites or may be required to rebuild the affected portion of our network, which could result in a portion of our network having a temporary disruption in service and a material increase in our operating or capital expenditures. In addition, the concentration of our tower leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we were unable to renew a material number of expiring site leases either on favorable terms or at all or identify and utilize alternative attractive capabilities for installing and operating replacement radio communications sites. 33 The terms of our debt place restrictions on us which may limit our operating flexibility The indenture governing our outstanding notes imposes material operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions, subject in certain cases to ordinary course of business and other exceptions, may limit our ability to engage in some transactions, including the following: · incurring additional debt; · paying dividends, redeeming capital stock or making other restricted payments or investments; · creating liens on assets; · merging, consolidating or disposing of assets; · entering into transactions with affiliates; and · placing restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on debt, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any future debt that we incur may contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile and shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price they paid for them The market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · changes in our relationship with Sprint Nextel, including the outcome of our litigation against Sprint Nextel; · changes in the relationships of other PCS affiliates with Sprint Nextel, including Sprint Nextel’s acquisitions over the past three quarters of five PCS affiliates of Sprint Nextel; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements by Sprint Nextel concerning its relationships with its PCS affiliates and the integration of the Sprint and Nextel businesses, as well as developments or changes in its business, financial condition or results of operations, or in its expectations as to future financial performance; · actual or potential defaults in debt agreements by us or other PCS affiliates of Sprint Nextel; · announcements of technological innovations or changes to, or new, products and services by Sprint Nextel or our competitors; · changes in results of operations, market valuations and investor perceptions of Sprint Nextel, other PCS affiliates of Sprint Nextel or of other companies in the telecommunications industry in general and the wireless industry in particular, including our competitors; · changes in laws and regulations; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and · general economic and competitive conditions. 34 Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that may discourage a change of control transaction Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us. For example, we have a staggered board of directors, the members of which may only be removed for cause, authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock which could be used to fend off a takeover attempt, a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent and limits on shareholders’ ability to make proposals at shareholder meetings. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Sprint Nextel Our ability to conduct our business would be severely restricted if Sprint materially breached or terminated our management agreement Our relationship with Sprint Nextel is governed by our management agreement with Sprint PCS. In addition to the risks related to breaches of our management agreement in connection with the merger of Sprint and Nextel, which are described above under “¾The merger between Sprint and Nextel, the outcome of our litigation relating thereto and other developments between Sprint Nextel and us and other PCS affiliates may have an adverse effect on us,” because we do not own any licenses to operate a wireless network, our business depends on the continued effectiveness of our management agreement. Sprint may terminate our management agreement if we materially breach the terms of the agreement. These terms include operational and network requirements that are extremely technical and detailed and apply to each retail store, cell site and switch site. Many of these operational and network requirements can be changed by Sprint, in certain cases, with little notice. As a result, we may not always be in compliance with all requirements of the management agreement. Sprint conducts periodic audits of compliance with various aspects of its program guidelines and identifies issues it believes need to be addressed. There may be substantial costs associated with remedying any non-compliance, and such costs may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our management agreement also requires that we provide network coverage to a minimum network coverage area within specified time frames and that we meet and maintain specified technology and network requirements. We believe we are in compliance with our network build-out requirements and other technology and network requirements. A failure by us to meet any expanded build-out requirements for our markets or other technology or network requirements could constitute a material breach of the management agreement, which could lead to its termination by Sprint. Sprint can also choose not to renew the agreement at the expiration of the 20-year initial term in 2018 or any ten-year renewal term thereafter. In any event, our management agreement terminates in approximately 44 years. If Sprint terminates or fails to renew our management agreement or fails to perform its obligations under the agreement, our ability to conduct our business would be severely restricted. If we materially breach our management agreement, Sprint may have the right to purchase our operating assets at a discount to market value on terms that have been agreed to and that are disadvantageous to us, and certain provisions of our management agreement may diminish our value and restrict the sale of our business Our management agreement provides that upon the occurrence of an event of termination caused by our breach of the agreement, we may be required to sell our operating assets to Sprint. This sale may take place for a price equal to 72% of our “entire business value” (as defined in the management agreement), subject to the valuation criteria and procedures provided in our management agreement, and without shareholder approval. If Sprint materially breaches the management agreement, one remedy we may exercise is the sale to Sprint of our operating assets at a price equal to 80% of our “entire business value,” subject to the valuation criteria and procedures provided in our management agreement, and without shareholder approval. These provisions of our management agreement that allow Sprint to purchase our operating assets at a discount may limit our ability to sell our business, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay for our business and may reduce our “entire business value.” 35 In addition, any change of control of our ownership and any assignment of our management agreement is subject to Sprint’s approval. Sprint also has a right of first refusal if we decide to sell our operating assets to a third party. We also are subject to a number of restrictions on the transfer of our business, including a prohibition on the sale of our operating assets to competitors of Sprint. These restrictions and the other restrictions contained in our management agreement restrict our ability to sell our business, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay for our business and may reduce our “entire business value.” Sprint may make decisions that could increase our expenses and/or our capital expenditure requirements, reduce our revenues or make our affiliate relationship with Sprint less advantageous than expected Under our management agreement and services agreement with Sprint PCS, Sprint has a substantial amount of control over factors that significantly affect the conduct of our business. Subject to certain limits set forth in our agreements with Sprint, Sprint may make decisions that adversely affect our business, such as the following: · Sprint prices subscriber pricing plans for Sprint PCS products and services based on its own objectives and could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business; · Sprint could develop products and services or establish credit policies that may not be economically advantageous for our business; · Sprint could reduce levels of services or otherwise seek to increase expenses and other amounts charged for services; · Sprint may alter its network and technical requirements or request that we build out additional areas within our markets, which could result in increased equipment and build-out costs or in Sprint building out that area itself or assigning it to another PCS affiliate of Sprint Nextel; and · Sprint could make decisions that could adversely affect the Sprint brand name. Conflicts between Sprint and us may arise as a result of decisions affecting our business, and we cannot predict whether such conflicts will be resolved in a manner favorable to us. The FCC may fail to renew the Sprint wireless licenses for our markets under certain circumstances, which would prevent us from providing wireless services Sprint’s wireless licenses are subject to renewal and revocation by the FCC. The FCC has adopted specific standards that apply to wireless personal communications services license renewals. Any failure by Sprint or us to comply with these standards could result in the nonrenewal of the licenses for our markets. Additionally, if Sprint does not demonstrate to the FCC that Sprint has met the construction requirements for each of its wireless personal communications services licenses, it can lose those licenses. The original Sprint wireless licenses in our markets expired or expire on dates during 2004 through 2007, but may be renewed for additional ten-year terms. Those licenses with expiration dates prior to the present time period have been renewed. If Sprint loses its licenses in our markets for any of these reasons, we would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses. If Sprint loses its licenses in another territory, Sprint would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses and our ability to offer nationwide calling plans would be diminished and potentially more costly. Sprint Nextel’s failure to timely and accurately generate revenue and cost data for the compilation of our financial statements and other financial disclosures could have a material adverse effect on our business We place substantial reliance on the timeliness, accuracy and sufficiency of revenue and cost data and information generated by Sprint Nextel for the compilation of our financial statements and other financial 36 disclosures, including substantial portions of our revenues, expenses and accounts receivable. As part of our agreements, we outsource several functions to Sprint Nextel including billing, customer care, national network operations support, inventory logistics support, long distance transport and national retailer sales support. The data provided by Sprint Nextel is the primary source for our recognition of service revenue and a significant portion of our selling and marketing and cost of service and operations expenses. In certain cases, the data is provided at a level of detail that is not adequate for us to verify for accuracy back to the originating source. We rely on Sprint Nextel to have designed adequate internal controls with respect to the processes established to provide this data. Because of this reliance, we are dependent on Sprint Nextel to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of these controls and report any significant deficiencies and weaknesses in the design or operation of these controls that could have a material impact on our financial statements and disclosures. Sprint Nextel provides a semi-annual evaluation of these controls to us by engaging its independent auditors to provide a “Report on Controls Placed in Operation and Tests of Operating Effectiveness for Affiliates” under guidance provided in Statement of Auditing Standards No. 70 (“SAS 70”). There can be no assurance that the SAS 70 procedures will identify all weaknesses that might be material to us. Additionally, at times, we have been invoiced by Sprint for charges or paid at rates that we have believed to be contractually incorrect. We review all charges and payments from Sprint and dispute items if appropriate based upon our interpretation of our agreements with Sprint. We record estimates primarily based on invoiced amounts and we record any subsequent adjustments at the time the dispute is resolved. Errors that are not reconciled on a timely basis by Sprint Nextel could cause us to misstate our revenues or expenses and could result in out-of-period adjustments that may materially adversely affect our financial results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, the failure of Sprint Nextel to remit current or future amounts owing to PCS affiliates of Sprint Nextel, including us, could lead to actions on the part of us or other PCS affiliates of Sprint Nextel to enforce rights under the Sprint agreements and other remedies available under applicable law. The inability of Sprint Nextel to provide high quality back office services, or our inability to use Sprint Nextel’s or its third party vendors’ back office services, could lead to customer dissatisfaction, increase customer turnover or otherwise disrupt our business and increase our costs We rely on Sprint Nextel’s internal support systems, including customer care, billing and back office support. We also depend on Sprint Nextel’s willingness to continue to offer these services and to provide these services effectively. Our operations could be disrupted if Sprint Nextel is unable to provide these back office services and systems in a high quality manner, or to efficiently outsource those services and systems through third party vendors. Sprint Nextel has relied on third party vendors for a significant number of important functions, including billing, customer care operations and components of its internal support systems and may continue to rely on outside vendors in the future or may take these systems in-house. Any significant system change, the inability of Sprint Nextel to provide or maintain high quality back office services or our inability to use Sprint Nextel’s back office services and third party vendors’ back office systems could lead to customer dissatisfaction, increase customer turnover or otherwise disrupt our business and increase our costs. Our ability to replace Sprint Nextel in providing back office services may be limited. Our costs for internal support systems may increase if Sprint Nextel terminates all or part of our services agreement with it Because we incur the costs for the services provided by Sprint Nextel under our services agreement for billing, customer care and other back office functions on a per subscriber basis, we expect the aggregate cost for such services to increase as the number of our subscribers increases. Sprint Nextel may terminate a significant service provided under the agreement, including customer care, billing or collections, upon nine months’ prior written notice. If we would like to continue receiving such service, Sprint Nextel has agreed 37 that it will assist us in developing that function internally or locating a third party vendor that will provide that service. If Sprint Nextel terminates a service for which we have not developed or are unable to develop a cost-effective alternative, our operating costs may increase beyond our expectations and our operations may be interrupted or restricted. We do not currently have a contingency plan if Sprint Nextel terminates a service we currently receive from it. We may have difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of certain handsets and other wireless devices from Sprint Nextel, which could adversely affect our results of operations We depend on our relationship with Sprint Nextel to obtain handsets and other wireless devices at a competitive cost. Sprint Nextel orders handsets and other wireless devices from various manufacturers. We could have difficulty obtaining specific types of handsets and other wireless devices at a competitive cost and in a timely manner if: · Sprint Nextel does not adequately project the needs for handsets and devices for itself, its PCS affiliates and its other third party distribution channels, particularly during a transition to new technologies, such as EV-DO; · Sprint Nextel gives preference to other distribution channels; · we do not adequately project our need for handsets or other wireless devices; · Sprint Nextel modifies its logistics and delivery plan in a manner that restricts or delays our access to handsets and other wireless devices; or · there is an adverse development in the relationship between Sprint Nextel and its suppliers or vendors. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could disrupt our customer service and/or result in a decrease in our subscribers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to the Wireless Telecommunications Industry We may continue to experience a high rate of customer turnover, which would adversely affect our financial performance The wireless telecommunications industry has experienced a high rate of customer turnover, commonly known as churn, although the rate of churn has been decreasing over time. Due to significant competition in the industry and general economic conditions, among other things, a decline in the churn rate may not continue and our future rate of customer turnover may be higher than our historical rate or projections. Factors that may contribute to higher churn include customer confusion resulting from the Sprint-Nextel merger, inability or unwillingness of customers to pay resulting in involuntary deactivations, customer mix and credit class and in particular sub-prime credit class customers, customer credit terms, deposit requirements for sub-prime customers, number of customers receiving services under contracts with terms of a year or greater, attractiveness of competitors’ products, services and pricing, network coverage and performance relative to competitors, customer service and other competitive factors. A high rate of customer turnover adversely affects our competitive position, liquidity, results of operations and costs of, or losses incurred in, obtaining new subscribers, especially because we subsidize a significant portion of the costs of initial purchases of handsets by new customers. We may be required to increase subsidies for product upgrades and/or reduce pricing to match competitors’ initiatives and retain customers, which could adversely impact our revenues, liquidity and profitability. 38 Significant competition in the wireless telecommunications industry may result in our competitors offering new or better services or lower prices, which could adversely affect our profitability and may cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. Competition has caused, and we anticipate that competition will continue to cause, the market prices for wireless products and services to decline in the future and the cost to acquire new customers to remain high. We face competition in our markets from national wireless carriers Verizon, Cingular, T-Mobile and Nextel (which is operated by Sprint Nextel subsequent to the merger in August 2005), in addition to competition from regional wireless carriers in certain markets. We also face competition from resellers in certain markets, which provide wireless services to customers but do not hold FCC licenses or own facilities. Instead, the resellers buy blocks of wireless telephone numbers and capacity from a facilities-based carrier and resell services through their own distribution network to the public. Our dependence on Sprint Nextel to develop competitive products and services, Sprint Nextel’s competition against us in our markets through its legacy Nextel operations, and the requirement that we obtain Sprint Nextel’s consent to sell non-Sprint approved products may limit our ability to keep pace with our competitors on the introduction of new products, services and equipment. Our success is, to a large extent, dependent on Sprint Nextel’s ability to distinguish its Sprint PCS products and services from competitors by marketing and anticipating and responding to various competitive factors affecting the wireless industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. To the extent that Sprint Nextel is not able to keep pace with technological advances or fails to respond timely to changes in competitive factors in the wireless industry, it could cause us to lose market share or experience a decline in revenue. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and technical resources and subscriber bases, more extensive coverage areas and more well-established marketing programs and brand names than we do. Some of our competitors may market other services, such as landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access, along with their wireless telecommunications services. Furthermore, there has been a recent trend in the wireless telecommunications industry towards consolidation of wireless service providers, which has led to larger competitors. We may be unable to compete successfully with larger companies that have substantially greater resources or that offer more services than we do. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the wireless telecommunications industry. While we try to maintain and grow our average revenue per user, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so. If prices for our services continue to decline, it could adversely affect our ability to grow revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Market saturation could limit or decrease our rate of new subscriber additions Intense competition in the wireless telecommunications industry could cause prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline. If prices drop, then our rate of net subscriber additions will take on greater significance in improving our financial condition and results of operations. However, as our and our competitors’ penetration rates in our markets increase over time, our rate of adding net subscribers could decrease. If this decrease were to happen, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 39 Alternative technologies and current uncertainties in the wireless and overall communications industries may reduce demand for Sprint PCS products and services or cause us to increase our expenditures The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant and rapid technological change, as evidenced by the continued pace of upgrades in existing digital wireless systems, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. We rely on Sprint Nextel for research and development efforts with respect to Sprint PCS products and services and to keep pace with technological changes in the wireless industry. Sprint Nextel may not be able to respond to such changes and implement new technology on a timely basis, or at an acceptable cost to us. If Sprint Nextel is unable to keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the wireless communications market, the technology used in our network or our business strategy may become obsolete. Other carriers are in the process of upgrading their networks to 3G technologies such as EV-DO, Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) or High-Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA). We have upgraded our network to CDMA 1xRTT, which is the name for the first phase of CDMA’s evolution to 3G, and offer PCS Vision services in all of our markets. Sprint Nextel has begun to deploy EV-DO technology in portions of its CDMA network and expects its EV-DO service, marketed as “Power Vision,” to be accessible to about 150 million people in early 2006. Although we are not required to deploy EV-DO across our network, we have deployed EV-DO in portions of our markets covering approximately 10% of our network’s covered population, and may similarly elect to deploy EV-DO technology in additional portions of our markets, which could significantly increase our capital expenditures. The implementation of EV-DO or other 3G technologies in networks of competitors in portions of our markets will create a gap in product offerings unless we determine to increase capital and operating expenditures to upgrade all or portions of our network with the enhanced technology. Future FCC regulation or congressional legislation may create additional spectrum allocations that would have the effect of adding new entrants (and, consequently, additional competitors) to the mobile telecommunications market. Future wireless applications on current or future portions of the wireless spectrum may also reduce demand for Sprint PCS products and services. In addition, the convergence of wireless, landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access is creating uncertainties in the overall communications market. The proliferation of Wi-Fi and the potential application of WiMAX create additional uncertainly about how customers will communicate wirelessly in the future. Sprint Nextel has interests in developing technologies and delivery channels, such as its recently announced joint venture with cable companies Comcast Corporation, Time Warner Cable, Cox Communications and Advance/Newhouse Communications that may create additional competition in our markets and reduce demand for Sprint PCS products and services offered by us. Regulation by government agencies and taxing authorities may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services, either of which could impair our financial performance Our operations and those of Sprint Nextel may be subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact Sprint Nextel’s and our operations and our costs of doing business. For example, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could subject us to increased income, sales, gross receipts or other tax costs or require us to alter the structure of our current relationship with Sprint Nextel. 40 Concerns over health risks posed by the use of wireless handsets may reduce consumer demand for our products and services Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health problems, including cancer, resulting from continued or excessive use, may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers, and may cause explosions if used while fueling an automobile. Widespread concerns over radio frequency emissions may expose us to potential litigation, discourage use of wireless handsets or result in additional regulation imposing restrictions or increasing requirements on the location and operation of cell sites or the use or design of wireless handsets. Any resulting decrease in demand for wireless services or increase in the cost of complying with additional regulations, or costs of litigation and damage awards, could impair our ability to sustain profitability. Regulation by government or potential litigation relating to the use of wireless phones while driving may reduce consumer demand for our products and services Some studies have indicated that some aspects of using wireless phones while driving may impair drivers’ attention in certain circumstances, making accidents more likely. A number of U.S. state and local governments have enacted or are considering legislation that would restrict or prohibit the use of a wireless handset while driving a vehicle or, alternatively, require the use of a hands-free wireless phone. These concerns also could lead to potential litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries. New restrictions or government regulations that restrict or prohibit wireless phone use resulting in a decrease in demand for wireless services, or costs of litigation and damage awards, could impair our ability to sustain profitability. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 