ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to incur additional indebtedness if needed and could negatively affect our ability to service our debt. We are highly leveraged. As of September 30, 2005, our total outstanding debt, including capital lease obligations but excluding the markup of the Horizon PCS debt to fair value, was approximately $290.4 million. As of that date, such indebtedness represented approximately 52% of our total capitalization. The indentures that govern our 111¤2% senior notes and our 113¤8% senior notes permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional indebtedness subject to certain limitations. The incurrence of additional indebtedness could further exacerbate the risks associated with our leverage. If we incur additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the senior notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the senior notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: · increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions; · limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and · potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could decrease our ability to compete in our industry. 34 The ability to make payments on our debt will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to general economic and competitive conditions, the outcome of our litigation with Sprint, and to financial, business and other factors, many of which we cannot control. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our debt, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on satisfactory terms in a timely manner or at all. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of out indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The indentures that govern the senior notes limit our ability to take several of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient funds to pay our debts or to successfully undertake any of these actions could, among other things, result in our bankruptcy. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our merger with Horizon PCS. We closed our merger with Horizon PCS on July 1, 2005. The success of our merger with Horizon PCS will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities, economies of scale and other benefits from combining the business of iPCS with the business of Horizon PCS. To realize the anticipated benefits of this combination, our management team must develop strategies and implement a business plan that will: · effectively manage the networks and markets of iPCS and Horizon PCS; · effectively manage cash for use in financing future growth and working capital needs; · effectively manage the marketing and sales of the services; · successfully retain and attract key employees, including management, during a period of transition and in light of the competitive employment market; and · maintain adequate focus on existing businesses and operations while working to integrate the two companies. The diversion of our management’s attention from ongoing operations and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not realize economies of scale and other anticipated benefits as a result of the merger, our operations and results may suffer. There is no assurance that combining our business with that of Horizon PCS, even if achieved in an efficient, effective and timely manner, will result in combined results of operations and financial conditions superior to what we could have achieved independently. We incurred significant costs associated with our merger with Horizon PCS and will continue to incur additional costs associated with the merger. We incurred significant direct transaction costs associated with our merger with Horizon PCS, which were included as a part of the total purchase price for accounting purposes. We will continue to pay severance expenses in connection with the termination of the employment of certain employees of Horizon PCS, and other costs associated with integrating the two companies. We may incur additional charges in subsequent quarters associated with the merger. We emerged from bankruptcy in 2004 and we have a history of net losses. We may incur additional losses in the future, and our operating results could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. We emerged from bankruptcy in July 2004 and Horizon PCS emerged from bankruptcy in October 2004. Prior to our emergence from bankruptcy and the implementation of fresh-start accounting, 35 we had a net accumulated deficiency of $393.5 million and Horizon PCS had a net accumulated deficiency of $685.9 million. Our future operating profitability and cash flows from operating activities will depend upon many factors, including, among others, the outcome of our litigation against Sprint, our ability to market Sprint PCS products and services, achieve projected market penetration and manage subscriber turnover rates. If we do not achieve and maintain operating profitability and positive cash flows from operating activities, we may be unable to make interest or principal payments on the senior notes. Our inability to satisfy our obligations may result in our restructuring or bankruptcy. In addition, our future operating results and cash flows will be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to many factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include increased costs we may incur in connection with the further development, expansion and upgrade of our wireless network and fluctuations in the demands for our services. We may not achieve or sustain profitability. To the extent our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate significantly, we will be unable to pay amounts due under the senior notes. Our inability to satisfy our obligations may result in our restructuring or bankruptcy. It is our strategy to continue our subscriber growth, which may negatively affect our near term profitability. We intend to continue to grow our subscriber base by expanding our sales distribution channels, particularly the number of exclusive co-branded dealers and company-owned retail stores, and by increasing our sales and marketing activities in order to maximize revenues from our third generation network and advanced product offerings. If we seek to accelerate our subscriber growth, we will incur significant up-front subscriber acquisition expenses, which initially will result in reduced levels of cash flows from operating activities as compared to our most recent prior periods. In addition, to the extent our subscriber growth includes a higher percentage of sub-prime credit subscribers, our churn and bad debt expense may increase, which would impair our ability to maintain and increase our revenues and cause a deterioration in our operating margin. Our financial condition and results of operations are not comparable to the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. As a result of our emergence from bankruptcy, we are operating our business with a new capital structure, and are subject to fresh-start accounting prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles. In accordance with fresh-start accounting, assets and liabilities were recorded at fair value, with the enterprise value that was determined in connection with the reorganization. Accordingly, iPCS’s financial condition and results of operations for the periods subsequent to July 1, 2004 are not comparable to the financial condition or results of operations for the periods as of and prior to July 2, 2004 reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. If we receive lower revenues or incur more fees than we anticipate for PCS roaming from Sprint PCS, our results of operations may be negatively affected. We are paid a fee from Sprint PCS for every minute and kilobyte that Sprint PCS’s subscribers not based in our territory use the Sprint PCS network in our territory. Similarly, we pay a fee to Sprint for every minute and kilobyte that our subscribers use the Sprint PCS network outside our territory. The per-minute and per-kilobyte rates that we receive from Sprint PCS and that we pay to Sprint PCS are the same and are fixed until the end of December 2006. Thereafter, the rate will change, based on an agreed-upon formula that may have an adverse effect on us. In addition, Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory may spend more time outside our territory than we anticipate, and wireless subscribers from outside our territory may spend less time in our territory or may use our services less than we anticipate. Our ratio of inbound to outbound roaming with Sprint PCS was approximately 1.5 to 1 for the year ended September 30, 2005. We expect this ratio to decline over time as our subscriber base continues to grow, 36 resulting in us receiving less Sprint PCS roaming revenue and/or having to pay more in Sprint PCS roaming fees than we collect in Sprint PCS roaming revenue which will negatively affect our operating results. Roaming revenue from subscribers of wireless communications providers other than Sprint PCS and other PCS Affiliates of Sprint may decline in the future which may negatively affect our operating results. We derive a significant amount of roaming revenue from wireless communications providers other than Sprint PCS and other PCS Affiliates of Sprint for permitting their subscribers to roam on the Sprint PCS network in our territory. For the year ended September 30, 2005, approximately 7% of our roaming revenue was attributable to revenue derived from these other wireless communications providers. We do not have agreements directly with these wireless providers. Instead, we rely on roaming arrangements that Sprint PCS has negotiated and entered into. Sprint PCS may negotiate and enter into roaming arrangements with other wireless communications providers at rates that are lower than current rates, resulting in a decrease in our roaming revenue. If the rates offered by Sprint PCS are not attractive, these other wireless communications providers may decide to build out their own networks in our territory and compete with us directly or enter into roaming arrangements with our competitors who already have networks in our territory, resulting in a decrease in our roaming revenue. Roaming revenue from subscribers of wireless communications providers other than Sprint PCS and PCS Affiliates of Sprint may decline as a result of decreased roaming traffic in our territory if our quality of service does not continue to meet designated technical and quality standards or if we are unable to control fraudulent use. Our roaming arrangements may not be competitive with other wireless communications providers, which may restrict our ability to attract and retain subscribers which may negatively affect our operating results. We do not have agreements directly with other wireless service providers for roaming coverage outside our territory for Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory. Instead, we rely on roaming arrangements that Sprint PCS has negotiated with other wireless communications providers for coverage in these areas. Some risks related to these arrangements are as follows: · the arrangements may not benefit us in the same manner that they benefit Sprint PCS; · the quality of the service provided by another provider during a roaming call may not approximate the quality of the service provided by Sprint PCS; · the price of a roaming call may not be competitive with prices charged by other wireless companies for roaming calls; · subscribers must end a call in progress and initiate a new call when leaving the Sprint PCS network and entering another wireless network; · Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory may not be able to use advanced PCS features from Sprint PCS, such as PCS Vision, while roaming; · Sprint PCS or the carriers providing the service may not be able to provide accurate billing information on a timely basis; and · if Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory do not have a similar wireless experience as when they are on the Sprint PCS network, we may lose current subscribers and Sprint PCS products and services may be less attractive to potential new subscribers. If we are unable to attract and retain subscribers for any reason, our ability to maintain and increase revenues will be impaired and our operating margin will deteriorate. 37 If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless towers or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless towers on favorable terms or at all, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Virtually all of our base stations are installed on leased tower facilities that may be shared with one or more other wireless communications providers. In addition, a large portion of these leased tower sites are owned by a limited number of tower companies. If a master agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support the use of its tower sites by us, we would have to find new sites or may be required to rebuild the affected portion of the Sprint PCS network in our territory. In addition, the concentration of our tower leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if any of our operating subsidiaries is unable to renew its expiring leases with these tower companies either on favorable terms or at all. If any of the tower leasing companies with whom we do business should experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use our towers could be adversely affected. That, in turn, would adversely affect our revenues and financial condition if a material number of towers were involved. We depend on other telecommunications companies for some services that, if delayed or interrupted, could delay our expected increases in subscribers and revenues. We depend on other telecommunications companies to provide facilities and transport to interconnect portions of our network and to connect our network with the landline telephone system. Without these services, we could not offer Sprint PCS services to our subscribers in some areas. From time to time, we have experienced delays in obtaining facilities and transport from some of these companies, and in obtaining local telephone numbers for use by our subscribers, which are sometimes in short supply, and we may continue to experience delays and interruptions in our network operations and our business may suffer. Delays or interruptions could also result in a breach of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, subjecting these agreements to potential termination by Sprint PCS. Alternative technologies and current uncertainties in the wireless and overall communications market may make the technology we use obsolete or reduce demand for PCS products and services. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant and rapid technological change, as evidenced by the continued pace of upgrades in existing digital wireless systems, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. We rely on Sprint to keep pace with these technological changes. If Sprint is unable to keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the wireless communications market, the technology used in our network or our business strategy may become obsolete. Other carriers are in the process of upgrading their networks to 3G technologies such as EV-DO, Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) or High-Speed Downlink Packet Access (HSDPA). We have upgraded our network to CDMA 1xRTT, which is the name for the first phase of CDMA’s evolution to 3G, and, as of September 30, 2005, are offering PCS Vision services in markets representing approximately 99.6% of the covered population in our territory. Sprint PCS has begun to deploy EV-DO technology in portions of its service area and expects its EV-DO service, marketed as “Power Vision,” to be accessible to about 150 million people in early 2006. Although we are not required to deploy EV-DO across our network, we deployed EV-DO in Grand Rapids, Michigan and may similarly elect to deploy EV-DO technology in additional portions of our service area, which would significantly increase our capital expenditures. If we fail to implement significant technological changes, we may also lose subscribers and our ability to maintain and increase revenues will be impaired. The convergence of wireless, landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access is also creating uncertainties in the overall communications market. The proliferation of Wi-Fi and the potential application of WiMAX create additional uncertainty about how customers will communicate wirelessly in 38 the future. Future wireless applications on current or future portions of the wireless spectrum may also reduce demand for the wireless products and services we offer for Sprint. In addition, Sprint has interests in developing technologies and delivery channels, such as its recently announced joint venture with certain cable companies, including Comcast, Time Warner and Cablevision, that may have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of the officers and skilled employees upon whom we depend to operate our business could adversely affect our operating results. Our business is managed by a small number of executive officers on whom we depend to operate our business. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our continued ability to retain these executive officers and to attract and retain other highly qualified technical and management personnel. Notwithstanding our employment agreements with certain of our executives, we may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified technical and management personnel. Moreover, our past inability to meet our obligations that resulted in our bankruptcy filing, or the perception that we may not be able to meet our obligations following the reorganization, could adversely affect our ability to retain or attract high-quality personnel. The loss of the officers and skilled employees upon whom we depend to operate our business could adversely affect operating results. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. During the course of our testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed and investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Sprint PCS Our ability to conduct our business would be severely restricted if Sprint PCS terminates our affiliation agreements. Our relationship with Sprint PCS is governed by our affiliation agreements with it. We do not own any licenses that are used in our portion of the Sprint PCS network and our business depends on the continued effectiveness of these affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. Sprint PCS may be able to terminate our affiliation agreements with it if we materially breach the terms of the agreements. These terms include operational and network requirements that are extremely technical and detailed and apply to each retail store, cell site and switch site. Many of these operational and network requirements can be changed by Sprint PCS, in certain cases, with little notice. As a result, we may not always be in compliance with all requirements of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. Sprint PCS conducts periodic audits of compliance with various aspects of its program guidelines and identifies issues it believes need to be addressed. We may need to incur substantial costs to remedy any noncompliance. If we are not in compliance with our affiliation agreements, such failure could limit our ability to obtain any additional financing that we may need in order to remedy such noncompliance. Additionally, our substantial 39 indebtedness and our recent emergence from bankruptcy could further limit our ability to obtain additional financing. If we cannot obtain additional financing, we may be unable to remedy such noncompliance, thereby resulting in a material breach of our affiliation agreements which could lead to their termination by Sprint PCS. If Sprint PCS terminates or fails to renew our affiliation agreements or fails to perform its obligations under those agreements, our ability to conduct business would be severely restricted. If we materially breach our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS may have the right to purchase our operating assets at a discount to market value. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS require that we provide network coverage to a minimum network coverage area within specified time frames and that we meet and maintain Sprint PCS’ technical and customer service requirements. A failure to meet Sprint PCS’s technical or customer service requirements contained in the affiliation agreements, among other things, would constitute a material breach of the agreements, which could lead to their termination by Sprint PCS. We may amend our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS in the future to expand our network coverage. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS provide that upon the occurrence of an event of termination caused by our breach of such agreements, Sprint PCS has the right to, among other things, purchase our operating assets without stockholder approval and for a price equal to 72% of our “entire business value,” which is our appraised value determined using certain principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. See “Business—Our Affiliation Agreements with Sprint PCS” for a description of how we calculate our entire business value. Sprint PCS may make decisions that could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses and/or our capital expenditure requirements and make our affiliate relationships with Sprint PCS less advantageous than expected. Under our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS has a substantial amount of control over factors that significantly affect the conduct of our business. We are required to offer PCS subscriber pricing plans from Sprint PCS designated for regional or national offerings, including “Fair & Flexible” plans, “Free & Clear” plans and “PCS Vision” plans. Sprint PCS prices subscriber pricing plans based on its own objectives and could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business, which would result in decreased revenues and/or increased expenses. In addition, subject to certain limitations set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS may alter its network and technical requirements or request that we build out additional areas within our territory, which could result in increased operating expenses, additional equipment and build-out costs or in Sprint PCS building out that area itself or assigning it to another PCS Affiliate of Sprint.Certain provisions of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS may diminish our value and restrict the sale of our business. Under specific circumstances and without stockholder approval, Sprint PCS may purchase our operating assets or capital stock at a discount. In addition, Sprint PCS has the right to withhold its consent to any transaction in which the “ultimate parent” of any of our operating subsidiaries that is the party to the affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, changes. We must obtain the consent of Sprint PCS prior to any assignment by us of our affiliation agreements with it. Sprint PCS also has a right of first refusal if we decide to sell our operating assets to a third party. We are also subject to a number of restrictions on the transfer of our business, including a prohibition on the sale of our operating assets to competitors of Sprint PCS. These restrictions and the other restrictions contained in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS restrict our ability to sell our business, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay for our business, and may reduce our “entire business value,” which is our appraised value determined using principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. 40 Problems with Sprint PCS’s internal support systems could lead to customer dissatisfaction or increase our costs. We rely on Sprint PCS’s internal support systems, including customer care, billing and back office support. Sprint PCS has entered into business process outsourcing agreements with third parties to provide these services. Sprint PCS may not be able to successfully add system capacity, its internal support systems may not be adequate and the third parties that Sprint PCS has contracted with may not perform their obligations. Problems with Sprint PCS’ internal support systems could cause: · delays or problems in our operations or services; · delays or difficulty in gaining access to subscriber and financial information; · a loss of subscribers; and · an increase in the costs of customer care, billing and back-office services. Should Sprint PCS fail to deliver timely and accurate information, this may lead to adverse short-term decisions and inaccurate assumptions in our business plan. It could also adversely affect our cash flows, because Sprint PCS collects our receivables and remits to us a net amount that is based on the financial information it produces for us. Our costs for internal support systems may increase if Sprint PCS terminates all or part of our service agreeements with it. The costs for the services provided by Sprint PCS under our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS relative to billing, customer care and other back-office functions for the year ended September 30, 2005 were approximately $27.2 million. Because we incur the majority of these costs on a per-subscriber basis, which, under our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, is fixed until the end of December 2006 and after which will be reset by Sprint based on the amount necessary to recover its costs to provide the services, we expect the aggregate cost for such services to increase as the number of our subscribers increases. We have begun discussions with Sprint regarding the terms and conditions under which we would continue to purchase these back-office and support services from Sprint after December 31, 2006, if at all. If we cannot agree with Sprint PCS on a new rate for any future three-year period beyond 2006, we have the option to continue to purchase such services and have an arbitrator determine the new rate or self-provision or procure those services elsewhere. Sprint PCS has the right to terminate any service provided under such agreements upon nine months’ prior written notice, but if we desire to continue receiving such service, Sprint PCS has agreed that it will assist us in developing that function internally or locating a third party vendor that will provide that service. Although Sprint PCS has agreed that if it terminates the services, it will reimburse us for expenses we incur in transitioning to any service internally or to a third party, if Sprint PCS terminates a service for which we have not developed or are unable to develop a cost-effective alternative, our operating costs may increase beyond our expectations and our operations may be interrupted or restricted. We do not currently have a contingency plan if Sprint PCS terminates a service we currently receive from it or if we cannot reach agreement with Sprint on new rates. If Sprint PCS does not maintain control over its licensed spectrum, our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS may be terminated which will negatively affect our operating results. Sprint PCS, not us, holds the licenses necessary to provide wireless services in our territory. The FCC requires that licensees like Sprint PCS maintain control of their licensed systems and not delegate control to third party operators or managers without the FCC’s consent. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS reflect an arrangement that the parties believe meets the FCC requirements for licensee control of licensed spectrum. However, if the FCC were to determine that any of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS need to be modified to increase the level of licensee control, we have agreed with Sprint PCS to use our best efforts to modify the agreements to comply with applicable law. If we cannot agree with Sprint PCS to modify the agreements, those agreements may be terminated. If the agreements are terminated, we would no longer be a part of the Sprint PCS network and we would not be able to conduct our business. 41 The FCC may fail to renew the Sprint PCS wireless licenses under certain circumstances, which would prevent us from providing wireless services. Sprint PCS wireless licenses are subject to renewal and revocation by the FCC. Certain of Sprint PCS wireless licenses in our territory will expire in 2007, but we expect will be renewed for additional ten-year terms. The FCC has adopted specific standards that apply to wireless personal communications services license renewals. Any failure by Sprint PCS or us to comply with these standards could result in the non-renewal of the Sprint PCS licenses for our territory. Additionally, if Sprint PCS does not demonstrate to the FCC that Sprint PCS has met the construction requirements for each of its wireless personal communications services licenses, it can lose those licenses. If Sprint PCS loses its licenses in our territory for any of these reasons, we and our subsidiaries would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses. If Sprint PCS loses its licenses in another territory, Sprint PCS or the applicable PCS Affiliate of Sprint would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses and our ability to offer nationwide calling plans would be diminished and potentially more costly. Parts of our territory have limited licensed spectrum, which may adversely affect the quality of our service. In the majority of our markets, Sprint PCS has licenses covering 20 MHz or 30 MHz of spectrum. However, Sprint PCS has licenses covering only 10 MHz in parts of our territory which represent approximately 3.8 million in total population out of a total population of over 15.0 million residents in our territory. In the future, as our subscriber base increases in those areas, this limited licensed spectrum may not be able to accommodate increases in call volume or changes or upgrades in technology and may lead to increased dropped calls and may limit our ability to offer enhanced services. We may also have to increase our capital expenditures and/or operating expenses in an attempt to compensate for this lack of licensed spectrum. We rely on Sprint PCS for a substantial amount of our financial information. If that information is not accurate, our ability to accurately report our financial data could be adversely affected, and the investment community could lose confidence in us. Under our affiliation agreements, Sprint performs our billing, customer care and collections, PCS network systems support, inventory logistics, long distance transport and national third party sales support. The data provided by Sprint related to these functions they perform for us is the primary source for our service revenue and for a significant portion of our cost of service and roaming, and selling and marketing expenses included in our statement of operations. We use this data to record our financial results and prepare our financial statements. If Sprint fails to deliver timely and accurate information, this may lead us to make adverse decisions and inaccurate assumptions for future business plans and could also negatively affect our cash flows as Sprint collects our receivables and remits a net amount to us that is based on the financial information it provides. In addition, delays and inaccuracies which are material could adversely affect the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and if we later identify material errors in that data provided to us, we may be required to restate our financial statements. If that occurs as to us or any other PCS Affiliate of Sprint, investors and securities analysts may lose confidence in us. If Sprint does not succeed, our business may not succeed. If Sprint has a significant disruption to its business plan or PCS network, fails to operate its business in an efficient manner or suffers a weakening of its brand name, our operations and profitability would likely be negatively impacted. If Sprint should have significant financial problems, including bankruptcy, our business would suffer material adverse consequences, which could include termination or revision of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. 42 The merger between Sprint and Nextel and the outcome of our litigation relating thereto may have an adverse effect on us in ways that would be beyond our control. We have filed two complaints against Sprint alleging, among other things, that following the consummation of the merger between Sprint and Nextel, Sprint will breach its exclusivity obligations to us under our management agreements. Our complaints seek, among other things, a temporary restraining order, a preliminary injunction and a permanent injunction enjoining Sprint and those acting in concert with it from engaging in certain conduct following the closing of their merger that would violate our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. We cannot predict the outcome of our litigation against Sprint. If we do not prevail, Sprint may operate the legacy Nextel business in our territory in a manner that has an adverse effect on our business and operations, including by engaging in conduct expressly prohibited by the Forbearance Agreement, examples of which are set forth below. If we do not prevail, our stock price may be adversely affected. We agreed not to seek a temporary restraining order or a preliminary injunction against Sprint so long as Sprint operates the Nextel business in our territory subject to the limitations set forth in the Forbearance Agreement. Notwithstanding the Forbearance Agreement, Sprint’s ownership and operation of the Nextel business in our territory has, among other things, caused customer confusion in our territory. The Forbearance Agreement is scheduled to expire on January 1, 2006 in the territory managed by iPCS Wireless, and after the date that any decision after trial is rendered in the Delaware Court of Chancery in the territories managed by Horizon Personal Communications and Bright Personal Communications Services. We do not know how Sprint will operate the Nextel business in our territory after expiration of the Forbearance Agreement. Upon expiration, Sprint may operate the legacy Nextel business in a manner that may have a material adverse effect on us. For example, Sprint may: · share our confidential information with persons at Sprint outside of the group responsible for managing Sprint’s relationship with the PCS Affiliates of Sprint; · engage in conduct designed to induce and facilitate existing customers of Sprint PCS in our territory to transition their service to Nextel (e.g., direct marketing, local advertising and waiver of early termination fees); · sell dual-mode handsets in our territory that are pre-programmed to travel on the legacy Nextel network as opposed to the portion of the Sprint PCS network in our territory; · change the branding on legacy Nextel stores in our territory; · co-brand legacy Nextel products and services as Sprint in national third party retailers in our territory. We do not know whether we will ultimately reach agreement on mutually satisfactory terms for revised affiliation agreements. It is likely that any such revised affiliation agreements would result in us making significant payments to lease or acquire assets relating to the legacy Nextel network in our territory, to purchase legacy Nextel subscribers in our territory and/or to commit to a further build-out and expansion of our network beyond what is required under our existing affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. There is no assurance that we will have adequate funds on hand or the ability to borrow such funds in order to acquire the network assets or subscribers or to otherwise modify our network. In addition, any borrowing would increase our existing substantial leverage. As of December 16, 2005, Sprint has acquired, or announced that it has agreed to acquire, five PCS Affiliates of Sprint, four of whom had also filed suit against Sprint relating to the merger of Sprint and Nextel. Giving effect to these acquisitions, there will be five remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint. As a result of these acquisitions, Sprint may not devote as much of its personnel and resources to the remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations. 43 If other PCS Affiliates of Sprint have financial difficulties, the PCS network of Sprint could be disrupted which may negatively affect our operating results. The Sprint PCS network is a combination of networks. The large metropolitan areas are operated by Sprint, and the areas in between them are operated by PCS Affiliates of Sprint, all of which are independent companies like us. We believe that most, if not all, of these companies have incurred substantial debt to finance the large cost of building out their networks. If other PCS Affiliates of Sprint experience financial difficulties, the Sprint PCS network could be disrupted in the territories of those PCS Affiliates of Sprint. Material disruptions in the Sprint PCS network could have a material adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain subscribers. If the affiliation agreements of those PCS Affiliates of Sprint, are like ours, Sprint PCS would have the right to step in and operate the affected territory. However, this right could be delayed or hindered by legal proceedings, including any bankruptcy proceeding related to the affected PCS Affiliates of Sprint. Like us, another PCS Affiliate of Sprint recently emerged from bankruptcy and others have experienced financial difficulties. Risks Related to the Wireless Telecommunications Industry We may experience a high rate of subscriber turnover, which would adversely affect our financial performance. The wireless telecommunications industry in general, and Sprint PCS and the PCS Affiliates of Sprint in particular, including us, have experienced a high rate of subscriber turnover, commonly known as churn. We believe this higher churn rate has resulted from Sprint PCS’s programs for marketing its services to sub-prime credit subscribers and Sprint PCS’ focus on adding subscribers from the consumer segment of the industry, rather than the business segment. Significant competition in our industry and general economic conditions may cause our future churn rate to be higher than our historical rate. Factors that may contribute to higher churn include: · inability or unwillingness of subscribers to pay, resulting in involuntary deactivations, which accounted for approximately 42% of our subscriber deactivations for the year ended September 30, 2005; · subscriber mix and credit class, particularly sub-prime credit subscribers, which accounted for approximately 24% of our subscriber base as of September 30, 2005; · attractiveness of our competitors’ products, services and pricing, coupled with the wireless local number portability (“WLNP”) requirement enabling subscribers to keep their telephone numbers and thereby, making turnover easier; · network performance and coverage relative to our competitors; · customer service; · failure by Sprint or us to offer competitive rates, service offerings, handset pricing and customer retention benefits to existing customers; · any increased prices for services in the future; · customer confusion as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger; and · any future changes by us in the products and services we offer or in the terms under which we offer our products or services, especially to sub-prime credit subscribers. A high rate of subscriber turnover could adversely affect our competitive position, liquidity, financial position, results of operations and our costs of, or losses incurred in, obtaining new subscribers, especially because we subsidize most of the costs of initial purchases of handsets by subscribers. 44 Regulation by government agencies and taxing authorities may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. Our operations and those of Sprint PCS are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and those of Sprint PCS thereby increasing our costs of doing business. For example, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could subject us to increased income, sales, gross receipts or other tax costs or require us to alter the structure of our current relationship with Sprint PCS. Concerns over health risks and safety posed by the use of wireless handsets may reduce consumer demand for our services. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may: · be linked to various health problems resulting from continued or excessive use, including cancer; · interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers; and · cause explosions if used while fueling an automobile. Widespread concerns over radio frequency emissions may expose us to potential litigation, discourage the use of wireless handsets or result in additional regulation imposing restrictions or increasing requirements on the location and operation of cell sites or the use or design of wireless handsets. Any resulting decrease in demand for these services or increase in the cost of complying with additional regulations could impair our ability to profitably operate our business. Such concerns may result in the loss of subscribers, which may impair our ability to maintain and increase revenues and lower our operating margin. In addition, we may need to dedicate a larger portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to comply with such additional regulations. Due to safety concerns, some state and local legislatures have passed or are considering legislation restricting the use of wireless telephones while driving automobiles. Concerns over safety risks and the effect of future legislation, if adopted in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. In addition, it may discourage use of our wireless devices and decrease our revenues from subscribers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Further, litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Market saturation could limit or decrease our rate of new subscriber additions and increase costs to keep our current subscribers. Intense competition in the wireless telecommunications industry could cause prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline. If prices drop, our rate of net subscriber additions will take on greater significance in improving our financial condition and results of operations. However, as our and our competitors’ penetration rates in our markets increase over time, our rate of adding net subscribers could decrease further. If this decrease were to happen, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs through equipment upgrades and other retention costs to keep our current subscribers from switching to our competitors. Significant competition in the wireless telecommunications industry may result in our competitors offering new services or lower prices, which could prevent us from operating profitably and may cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. Competition has caused, and we anticipate that competition will continue to cause, the market prices for two-way wireless products and services to decline. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to 45 various competitive factors affecting the wireless telecommunications industry. If prices for our services continue to decline, it could adversely affect our ability to increase revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations. In addition, the viability of our business depends upon, among other things, our ability to compete with other wireless providers on reliability, quality of service, availability of voice and data features and customer care. In addition, the pricing of our services may be affected by competition, including the entry of new service providers into our markets. Furthermore, there has been a recent trend in the wireless telecommunications industry toward consolidation of wireless service providers, which we expect to lead to larger competitors over time. Our dependence on Sprint PCS to develop competitive products and services and the requirement that we obtain Sprint PCS’ consent to sell non-Sprint approved equipment may limit our ability to keep pace with our competitors on the introduction of new products, services and equipment. Some of our competitors are larger than us, possess greater resources and more extensive coverage areas, and may market other services, such as landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access, along with their wireless communications services. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage because we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors. We are a consumer business and an economic downturn in the United States involving significantly lowered consumer spending could negatively affect our results of operations. Our primary subscriber base is composed of individual consumers, and in the event of an economic downturn in the United States in which spending by individual consumers drops significantly, our business may be negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 