ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business and financial results of PNMR, PNM, and TNMP are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in MD&A, Note 16 and Note 17. Optim Energy, which is 50% owned by PNMR, is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties. Financial Factors The economic recession and disruption in the credit and capital markets may impact our growth strategy and ability to raise capital and negotiate new credit facilities for those expiring in 2012. What has been characterized as a “credit crisis” developed in the latter part of 2008 in the United States, along with the most significant economic recession in decades. It is generally perceived that the recession has ended and that the credit markets have returned to a more normal state. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as sources of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by cash flow from operations, which could include capital requirements for energy infrastructure investments and funding new projects. If PNMR, its operating subsidiaries, or Optim Energy are not able to access capital at competitive rates, or at all, PNMR’s ability to finance capital requirements, if needed, and its ability to implement its growth strategy will be limited. Additional disruptions in the credit markets, which could negatively impact our access to capital could be caused by: • a further or “double-dip” economic recession, • declines in the health of the banking sector generally, and the failure of specific banks who are parties to our credit facilities, • the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, • increased market prices for electricity and gas, A-15 Table of Contents • terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on facilities of PNMR’s operating subsidiaries or those of unrelated energy companies, and • deterioration in the overall health of the utility industry. Market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Any failure to renegotiate our credit facilities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of February 18, 2011, the Company had consolidated short-term debt outstanding of $240.0 million through existing revolving credit facilities. The $542.0 million PNMR Facility and the $386.0 million PNM Facility both primarily expire in August 2012. These facilities, along with the TNMP Revolving Credit Facility, which expires in December 2015, provide the Company short-term borrowing capacity and also allow letters of credit to be issued, which reduce the available capacity under the facilities. The Company utilizes these credit facilities and cash flows from operations to provide funds for both construction and operational expenditures. The Company’s business is seasonal with more revenues and cash flows from operations being generated in the summer months when air conditioning loads are greater. In general, the Company relies on these credit facilities as the initial source to finance construction expenditures resulting in increased borrowings under the facilities over time. The PNMR and PNM credit facilities will need to be renegotiated or replaced prior to their expiration in order to provide sufficient liquidity to finance operations and construction expenditures. Also, the bank financing arrangement of Optim Energy expires in May 2012 and will need to be renegotiated or replaced. The availability of such credit facilities and their terms and conditions will depend on the credit markets at that time, as well as the Company’s credit ratings and operating results. Industry experts suggest that the reduction in the number of banks and currently available credit coupled with numerous bank credit facilities across the utility industry expiring through 2012 could result in substantially higher pricing and shorter maturities of credit facilities. The Company is projecting total construction expenditures for the years 2011-2015 to be $1,396.4 million. The Company is exploring financial alternatives to meet these anticipated expenditures and currently believes that internal cash generation, credit arrangements, and access to the public and private capital markets will provide sufficient resources to meet capital requirements. To cover the difference in the amounts and timing of cash generation and cash requirements, the Company intends to use short-term borrowings under current or then existing liquidity arrangements. If our cash flow and credit and capital resources are insufficient to fund our capital expenditure plans, we may be forced to delay important capital investments, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital, or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in reductions of our credit ratings, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would result in an increase in the interest rates applicable under our credit facilities. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient to pay interest and principal on our debt in the future. If that should occur, our capital raising or debt restructuring measures may be unsuccessful or inadequate to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and further impair our liquidity. Future reduction in our credit ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR, PNM, and TNMP cannot be sure that any of their current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Downgrades could result in: • increased borrowing costs, which would negatively impact results of operation and cash flows, • required payment of a higher interest rate in future financings, a smaller potential pool of investors, and decreased funding sources, • required provision of additional support in the form of letters of credit, cash or other collateral to various counterparties, and • limited access to, or increased costs of access to, the credit markets. A-16 Table of Contents Declines in values of marketable securities held in trust funds for pension and other postretirement benefits and in the NDT could result in sustained increases in costs and funding requirements for those obligations, which may affect our results of operations. The Company targets 57.5% of its pension trust funds and 70.0% of its trust funds for other postretirement benefits to be invested in marketable equity securities. There was a significant decline in the general price levels of marketable equity securities in the second half of 2008 and early 2009. Although market prices generally improved later in 2009 and in 2010, increased levels of funding were required beginning in 2010 with additional amounts recorded as expense. Over one-half of funds held in the NDT are invested in marketable equity securities. The declines in market values resulted in the recognition of losses as impairments of certain securities held in the NDT. Further declines in market value could result in additional impairments. PNMR may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common and convertible preferred stock if its subsidiaries or Optim Energy are unable to pay upstream dividends or distributions to PNMR. PNMR is a holding company and has no operations of its own. PNMR’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common and convertible preferred stock at the current rate primarily depends on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and Optim Energy and their ability to pay upstream dividends or distributions. Prior to providing funds to PNMR, PNMR’s subsidiaries and Optim Energy have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and, in the case of PNM, preferred stock dividends. PNM can pay dividends to PNMR from earnings as well as equity contributions made by PNMR. The NMPRC has placed certain restrictions on the ability of PNM to pay dividends to PNMR, including the restriction that PNM cannot pay dividends that cause its debt rating to fall below investment grade. The NMPRC has also restricted PNM from paying dividends in any year, as determined on a rolling four quarter basis, in excess of net earnings without prior NMPRC approval. Additionally, PNM has various financial covenants that limit the transfer of assets, through dividends or other means. In addition, the ability of PNMR to declare dividends depends upon the extent to which cash flows will support dividends, the availability of retained earnings, the Company’s financial circumstances and performance, the NMPRC’s and PUCT’s decisions in various regulatory cases currently pending and which may be docketed in the future, the effect of federal regulatory decisions, Congressional and legislative acts, and economic conditions in the United States. Conditions imposed by the NMPRC or PUCT, future growth plans and the related capital requirements, and business considerations may also affect PNMR’s ability to pay dividends. Impairments of tangible and intangible long-lived assets of PNMR, PNM, and TNMP could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity, and results of operations. PNMR, PNM, and TNMP evaluate their intangible long-lived assets, including goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets, for impairment annually or, along with tangible long-lived assets, whenever indicators of impairment exist. The market capitalization of PNMR’s common stock has been significantly below book value since 2008, which is an indicator that intangible assets may be impaired. Other potential impairment indicators could include changing customer purchase commitments and market share; fluctuating market and commodity prices resulting from weather patterns; changing fuel costs; increased environmental regulation; industry deregulation; and other economic and market conditions and trends. In addition, changes in the ERCOT market in which First Choice operates significantly impacts its results of operations. Also, Optim Energy made a strategic decision not to pursue the Twin Oaks expansion and wrote off its development rights as an impairment. After tax impairment losses for PNMR, its consolidated subsidiaries, and PNMR’s share of Optim Energy totaled $212.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. No impairments were recorded in 2009. No impairments of intangible assets or tangible long-lived assets were recorded in 2010 although as described in Note 22, PNMR determined its investment in Optim Energy was fully impaired at December 31, 2010, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $188.2 million ($113.7 million after-tax). If further indicators of impairment become evident, additional analysis could result in future charges. In addition, the impairment analyses already performed were based on operating results expected to occur in the future. If the anticipated future results are not achieved, we may be required to perform additional assessments that could A-17 Table of Contents result in further impairment charges. Significant impairments adversely affect business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. There are risks associated with PNMR’s interest in Optim Energy. As a result of the adverse market conditions experienced by Optim Energy, PNMR (in collaboration with Optim Energy and ECJV) has been assessing various strategic alternatives relating to PNMR’s ownership interest in Optim Energy. Discussions regarding various alternatives have been held with several potential parties. Although PNMR has no contractual requirement or agreement to provide Optim Energy with additional financial resources as of the date of this report, based on the exploration of these alternatives to date, it is possible that PNMR may decide to contribute equity and/or other operational assets to Optim Energy or a new venture in order to consummate a strategic transaction. Depending on the form and structure of a strategic transaction, if any, as well as market conditions at the time the strategic transaction is consummated, PNMR may recognize additional impairments based on relative fair values. No assurances can be given that PNMR will consummate any strategic transaction with respect to its investment in Optim Energy. Regulatory Factors Failure of PNMR’s PNM and TNMP subsidiaries, which are subject to rate regulation by state regulators, to adequately recover the costs incurred to provide service to customers and to earn a fair return on invested capital could have a significant impact on the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. Critical to PNMR’s success is the financial health of its regulated operating subsidiaries, which is highly dependent on continued favorable regulatory treatment. Although the NMPRC approved rate increases for PNM in 2008 and 2009 and the PUCT approved rate increases for TNMP in 2009 and 2011, these were the first rate increases for the regulated operations in a number of years and there can be no assurance applications for rate increases in the future will be approved. PNM currently has an additional rate increase pending before the NMPRC. Furthermore, the Company anticipates a trend toward increasing costs of providing electric service due to new asset construction and deployment, increased rights-of-way renewal costs, higher costs of generation from renewable resources, energy efficiency mandates, possible increases to fuel costs, potential environmental compliance costs, increases in pension and benefit costs, and depreciation. If regulators do not allow the increased costs to be recovered from customers in a timely manner, the Company’s liquidity and results of operations could be negatively impacted. PNM’s current electric rate case pending with the NMPRC proposes to establish rates utilizing a future test year. As with any forward looking financial information, utilizing a future test year in a rate filing presents challenges that are inherent in the forecasting process. PNM forecasted both operating and capital expenditures that necessitated reliance on many assumptions concerning future conditions and operating results. In the ratemaking process, regulators and intervenors can challenge PNM’s assumptions and may assert different interpretations or assumptions. PNM and six other parties have entered into a stipulation that, if approved by the NMPRC, would resolve all issues in the current electric rate case. However, other parties oppose the stipulation and it is uncertain if the NMPRC will approve it. If the stipulation is not approved, PNM would need to litigate its positions through a case before the NMPRC, which would be subject to the risks inherent in such a proceeding. If PNM cannot successfully support the use of a future test year in current and future rate filings, including defending its ability to reasonably forecast operating and capital expenditures and to withstand challenges by regulators and intervenors, cash flows and results of operations may be negatively impacted. PNM may not be able to recover the costs of renewing rights-of-way, primarily on Native American lands, in rates charged to customers, which could negatively impact its liquidity and results of operations. Many of PNM’s electric transmission and distribution facilities are located on lands that require the grant of rights-of-way from governmental entities, Native American tribes, or private parties. Several of the agreements granting the rights-of-way were recently renewed at prices that are higher than historical levels. If PNM is not successful in recovering the costs of the rights-of-way renewals in rates approved by the NMPRC, its liquidity and results of operations will be negatively impacted. A-18 Table of Contents Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities, and litigation could exceed estimates by PNMR, its operating subsidiaries, and Optim Energy, which could adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. In addition, although there is uncertainty about the timing and form of regulations regarding climate change, CCBs, and other power plant emissions, such regulations could have a material impact on operations. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. PNMR, PNM, TNMP, and Optim Energy cannot predict how they would be affected if existing environmental laws and regulations were to be revised, or if new environmental laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment were to be adopted. As discussed in Note 16, the EPA has recently issued its proposed BART determinations for both SJGS and Four Corners under the program to address regional haze in the “four corners” area. If the proposals are finalized in the form issued, they would require the installation of SCR technology at both SJGS and Four Corners in order to reduce the levels of NOx emitted. In addition, the BART proposal for SJGS would require installation within a three year timeframe, which the Company believes would be extremely difficult to accomplish. The Company is unable to predict the final form of regulations that may be issued, but the installation of additional pollution control equipment at SJGS and Four Corners would likely require significant capital expenditures that the Company would expect to be recovered through rates. If such costs are not allowed to be recovered from customers, the Company’s financial position, results of operation, and cash flows would be negatively impacted. It is also possible that the requirements to comply with BART combined with other environmental and business considerations could jeopardize the economic viability of the plants or the ability and willingness of individual participants to continue participation in the plants. In addition, while there continues to be significant debate regarding the existence and extent of the emission of so-called GHG (particularly CO2) from fossil-fired generation facilities, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries believe that future governmental regulations applicable to their operations could limit GHG, although the framework and timing of regulation is currently unclear. A number of legislative bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress that would require substantial costs to be incurred across the utility industry in order to comply, assuming that technology is available. Material changes in existing environmental laws and regulations, as well as new environmental laws and regulations, including the regulation of GHG, could increase financing requirements or otherwise adversely affect the business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity of PNMR, its operating subsidiaries, and Optim Energy, unless increased environmental costs are recovered in customer rates or otherwise. Although the Company has begun the process of assessing the impacts of potential climate change legislation or regulation, the assessment is very preliminary and is based on numerous speculative assumptions regarding the final form of legislation or regulation. Revised or additional environmental laws and regulations could also result in additional operating restrictions on facilities and increased compliance costs that may not be fully recoverable in rates or otherwise, thereby reducing earnings. CCBs, consisting of fly ash, bottom ash, and gypsum, from operation of PNM’s SJGS are currently being disposed of in the surface mine pits adjacent to the plant. The EPA is considering a proposal to regulate CCBs, but the timing of the release of EPA’s proposal is unclear. It is possible that the EPA could classify CCBs as a hazardous waste. PNM cannot predict the outcome of the EPA’s actions regarding CCB regulation and whether such actions will have a material adverse impact on its operations or financial position. However, if the regulation ultimately prevents the CCBs from SJGS to be disposed of in the adjacent mine, the increased costs of disposal could be significant, which would negatively impact PNM’s customers and the Company. The Company’s results of operations would be negatively impacted unless the costs are recovered in PNM’s customer rates. In addition, PNM or TNMP may be designated as a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. PNMR, PNM, and TNMP cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond PNM’s or TNMP’s control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. A-19 Table of Contents PNMR, PNM, and TNMP are subject to complex government regulation, which may have a negative impact on their business, financial position and results of operations. PNMR, PNM, and TNMP are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state, and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influence their operating environment and may affect their ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the NMPRC, PUCT, FERC, NRC, EPA, ERCOT, NMED, TCEQ, and NERC regulate many aspects of their utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, the purchase of power under long-term contracts, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that the regulated entities can charge customers. PNMR, PNM, and TNMP are required to have numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from these agencies to operate their business. The rates that PNM and TNMP are allowed to charge for their retail services significantly influence PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Due to continuing federal regulatory reforms, the public utility industry continues to undergo change. Although Optim Energy’s operations are generally not subject to regulation by the utility regulatory agencies, its operations are subject to regulation by other regulators, such as environmental authorities. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority, depending upon the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime, which could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, until compliance is achieved, or both. PVNGS was subject to this heightened scrutiny from early 2007 through March 2009, when it exited the NRC’s enhanced inspection regime. Increased costs resulting from penalties, a heightened level of scrutiny, and implementation of plans to achieve compliance with NRC requirements, could adversely affect PNM’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has issued a number of rules pertaining to preventing undue discrimination in transmission services and electric reliability standards. The Company monitors and participates in the FERC and other proceedings involving implementation of the Energy Policy Act, in order to assess the implications of the law and rules on its operations. FERC issued an order revising the determination of total transmission capability under the reliability standards for transmission systems. The order could potentially reduce the total transmission capacity that we use to deliver our generation resources to our customers. If such reductions occur, we might have to acquire additional transmission rights or assets, which could require substantial investments and a significant amount of time to accomplish. PNMR and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the impact on their business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any agency that regulates them or from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require PNMR and its regulated subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or change business operations, and therefore may have an adverse impact on PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ results of operations. Operational Factors General economic conditions of the state, region and nation can affect our customers and suppliers. For example, economic recession or downturn may affect the actions of our customers and result in decreased consumption and increased bad debt expense, and could also negatively impact our suppliers, all of which could negatively impact us. Economic activity is a key factor in PNMR subsidiaries’ performance. Decreased economic activity can lead to declines in energy consumption, which could adversely affect future revenues, earnings and growth. Rises in unemployment rates both inside our service territories and nationwide could result in commercial customers ceasing operations and lower levels of income for our residential customers, causing them to be unable to pay their bills on time, which could impact our cash flows and increase our bad debt expense, which will impact results of operations. Decreased consumption, late or absence of payments and increases in bad debt expense would all negatively impact our results. A-20 Table of Contents Economic conditions also impact the supply of commodities and materials needed to construct or acquire utility assets or make necessary repairs. Recession may affect the supply of concrete, copper, steel, and aluminum. The costs of those items are also affected by economic conditions and could increase significantly over forecasted amounts. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM, and TNMP may be adversely affected if their power plants and transmission and distribution system are not successfully operated. Further, the financial performance of Optim Energy may be adversely affected if its power plants are not successfully operated. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM, and TNMP, as well as that of Optim Energy, depends on the successful operation of their generation, transmission, and distribution assets. The financial performance of PNMR and PNM may also be adversely affected if the NRC imposes restrictions on operation of PVNGS or any of the three units at the plant. Unscheduled or longer than expected maintenance outages, other performance problems with the electric generation assets, severe weather conditions, accidents and other catastrophic events, disruptions in the delivery of fuel, and other factors could reduce generation capacity and therefore limit the ability to sell power. Diminished generation capacity could also result in PNM’s aggregate net open forward electric sales position, including its retail load requirements, being larger than forecasted generation capacity. If this were to occur, purchases of electricity in the wholesale market by PNM would be required under contracts priced at the time of execution or, if in the spot market, at the then-current market price. There can be no assurance that sufficient electricity would be available at reasonable prices, or at all, if such a situation were to occur. Failures of transmission or distribution facilities may also cause interruptions in the services that PNM and TNMP provide. These potential generation, distribution, and transmission problems, and any potentially related service interruptions, could result in lost revenues and additional costs. Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. Through its operating subsidiaries, PNMR is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and certain wholesale customers. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed PNMR’s available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that PNMR’s operating subsidiaries purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. Because regulators or market conditions may not permit the operating subsidiaries to pass all of these purchases or construction costs on to their customers, the operating subsidiaries may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the recovery in customers’ rates. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for PNMR and the affected operating subsidiary. Costs of decommissioning, remediation, and restoration of nuclear and fossil-fueled power plants, as well as related coal mines could exceed estimates of PNMR, its subsidiaries, and Optim Energy, which could negatively impact results of operations and liquidity if regulators do not allow the increased costs to be recovered from customers. PNM has interests in a nuclear power plant, two coal-fired power plants, and several natural gas-fired power plants. PNM is obligated to pay for the costs of decommissioning its share of the nuclear power plant as well as its share of the fossil-fueled power plants. PNM is also obligated to pay for the costs of decommissioning the mines that supply coal to the coal-fired power plants. Rates charged by PNM to its customers, as approved by the NMPRC, include a provision for recovery of certain costs of decommissioning, remediation, and restoration. As discussed in Note 17, the NMPRC has established a cap on surface mine decommissioning cost. In the event the costs exceed current estimates and PNM is unsuccessful in recovering the costs through increased rates, results of operations will be negatively impacted. Optim Energy has interests in a coal-fired power plant and two gas-fired power plants and is obligated for decommissioning of its share of these facilities. Since Optim Energy is not subject to rate regulation, cost recovery can only be achieved through power sales at market-based rates. To the extent market-based rates are not adequate to recover the costs of decommissioning results of operations will be negatively impacted. A-21 Table of Contents The operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and Optim Energy are affected by weather conditions and regional drought and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution are generally seasonal businesses with demand for power from PNMR’s and Optim Energy’s electric operations traditionally peaking during the hot summer months. As a result, the operating results of PNMR, its operating subsidiaries, and Optim Energy will likely fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net earnings, available cash, and borrowing ability of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries. Drought conditions in New Mexico generally, and especially in the “four corners” region, in which SJGS and Four Corners are located, may affect the water supply for PNM’s generating plants. If adequate precipitation is not received in the watershed that supplies that region, PNM may have to decrease generation at these plants, which would require the purchase of power to serve PNM’s customers and/or reduce PNM’s ability to sell excess power on the wholesale market and reduce its revenues. Drought conditions or actions taken by regulators or legislators could limit PNM’s supply of water, and PNM’s and PNMR’s business may be adversely impacted. Although PNM has been able to maintain adequate access to water through supplemental contracts and voluntary shortage sharing agreements with tribes and other water users in the “four corners” region, PNM cannot be certain that it will be able to do so in the future. TNMP, First Choice, and Optim Energy have operations in the Gulf coast area of Texas, which experiences periodic hurricanes. In addition to potentially causing physical damage to Company or Optim Energy owned facilities, which disrupt the ability to transmit, distribute, and/or generate energy, hurricanes can reduce customers’ usage and demand for energy. These factors could reduce results of operation and cash flows. The ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers, its ability to collect amounts billed to customers, and its ability to manage the spread between the costs of energy supply and the sales price to customers could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. PNMR is exposed to competition in the unregulated Texas retail electricity market through First Choice, which serves customers at competitive rates. In order to compete effectively in the Texas retail electricity market, First Choice must be able to attract and retain customers on the basis of cost and service, while managing the cost of its energy supply. The rates charged to many of First Choice’s customers are fixed for the term of the contract and do not include automatic adjustments for changes in the cost of its energy supply. In the event of rapid increases in the costs First Choice incurs to obtain the energy supplied to customers, the results of operations of First Choice could be negatively impacted unless increased costs have been successfully hedged. The competitive nature of the Texas market results in significant turnover in the customer base of First Choice. There is no provision under Texas regulation that requires customers to pay their previous REP before obtaining service from another REP. This was exacerbated by the impacts of Hurricane Ike and depressed economic conditions and resulted in significant increases in the levels of uncollectible accounts and bad debt expense in late 2008 and early 2009. The ability of First Choice to compete successfully in the Texas market could have a significant effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, fuel supply, spent fuel disposal, regulatory and financial risks, and the risk of a terrorist attack. PNM has a 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS, with portions of its interests in Units 1 and 2 held under leases. PVNGS is subject to environmental, health, and financial risks such as the ability to obtain adequate supplies of nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks, unscheduled outages due to equipment failures, and other problems. PNM maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. See Note 16. Although the decommissioning trust funds are designed to provide adequate funds for decommissioning at the end of the expected life of the PVNGS units, there is the risk of insufficient decommissioning trust funds in the event of early decommissioning of the units. A-22 Table of Contents Although the PVNGS participants have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at PVNGS, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of PNM and PNMR. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. The operation of each of the three PVNGS units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses are valid for a period of approximately 40 years. APS, on behalf of the PVNGS participants, applied for renewed operating licenses for each unit on December 15, 2008 for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. The NRC is currently reviewing the application. The PVNGS participants do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. PNM’s PVNGS leases describe certain events, including “Events of Loss” and “Deemed Loss Events”, the occurrence of which could require PNM to pay the lessors and the equity investors, in return for the investors’ interest in PVNGS, cash in the amount provided in the leases and take ownership of the underlying assets. The “Events of Loss” generally relate to casualties, accidents, and other events at PVNGS, including the occurrence of specified nuclear events, which would severely, adversely affect the ability of the operating agent, APS, to operate, and the ability of PNM to earn a return on its interests in, PVNGS. The “Deemed Loss Events” consist mostly of legal and regulatory changes (such as issuance by the NRC of specified violation orders, changes in law making the sale and leaseback transactions illegal, or changes in law making the lessors liable for nuclear decommissioning obligations). PNM believes that the probability of such “Events of Loss” or “Deemed Loss Events” occurring is remote for the following reasons: (1) to a large extent, prevention of “Events of Loss” and some “Deemed Loss Events” is within the control of the PVNGS participants, including PNM, and the PVNGS operating agent, through the general PVNGS operational and safety oversight process and (2) with respect to other “Deemed Loss Events,” which would involve a significant change in current law and policy, PNM is unaware of any pending proposals or proposals being considered for introduction in Congress, or in any state legislative or regulatory body that, if adopted, would cause any of those events. See Note 7. Governance Factors Provisions of PNMR’s organizational documents, as well as several other statutory and regulatory factors, will limit another party’s ability to acquire PNMR and could deprive PNMR’s shareholders of the opportunity to gain a takeover premium for shares of PNMR’s common stock. PNMR’s restated articles of incorporation and by-laws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of discouraging persons from acquiring large blocks of PNMR’s common stock or delaying or preventing a change in control of PNMR. The material provisions that may have such an effect include: • authorization for the Board to issue PNMR’s preferred stock in series and to fix rights and preferences of the series (including, among other things, whether, and to what extent, the shares of any series will have voting rights, subject to certain limitations, and the extent of the preferences of the shares of any series with respect to dividends and other matters), • advance notice procedures with respect to any proposal other than those adopted or recommended by PNMR’s Board, and • provisions specifying that only a majority of the Board, the chairman of the Board, the chief executive officer, or holders of not less than one-tenth of all of PNMR's shares entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the New Mexico Public Utility Act, NMPRC approval is required for certain transactions that may result in PNMR’s change in control or exercise of control. Certain acquisitions of PNMR’s outstanding voting securities would also require FERC approval. A-23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 