Item 1A. Risk Factors” below and in our other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We caution readers not to rely on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s analysis only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as otherwise required by law. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Website Access to Reports and Other Information We make our Proxy Statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, available free of charge upon request by phone (telephone number: (972) 673-1850), by email to ir@microtune.com, in writing to our Investor Relations department at 2201 10th Street, Plano, Texas 75074 or through our internet website, www.microtune.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also access these materials at the SEC’s website located at www.sec.gov. Overview Microtune, Inc. was incorporated in 1996. We design and market radio frequency (RF) integrated circuits (ICs) and subsystem module solutions for the cable, digital television (DTV) and automotive electronics markets. Our tuner, amplifier and upconverter products permit the delivery, reception and exchange of broadband video, audio and data using terrestrial (off-air) and/or cable communications systems. Our tuner products targeting the cable and DTV markets are principally in the form of ICs while our tuner products targeting the automotive electronics market are principally in the form of subsystem modules. Our amplifier products are principally in the form of ICs or subsystem modules and our upconverter products are principally in the form of subsystem modules which also contain our ICs. Our products enable or target various consumer electronics, broadband communications and automotive electronics applications or devices, including cable television set-top boxes; high-speed voice and data cable modems; car audio, video and antenna amplifier systems; digital/analog televisions, including high-definition televisions; personal computer television (PC/TV) multimedia products; and mobile televisions. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) who sell devices and applications to consumers or service providers within the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets. We operate Microtune as a single business unit or reportable operating segment serving our target markets. We record our operating expenses by functional area and account type, but we do not record or analyze our operating expenses by market, product type or product. We attempt to analyze our net revenue by market, but in some cases we sell our products to resellers or distributors, giving us limited ability to determine market composition of our net revenue from these customers. In addition, certain of our OEM customers purchase products from us for applications in multiple end-markets, also limiting our ability to determine our net revenue contribution from each market. In these cases, we are not always able to accurately associate revenue with a market. Today, our products are marketed principally to OEMs and ODMs in the following markets: • Cable Products targeted to this market send and/or receive cable broadband signals. These products include tuners used in consumer premise equipment (CPE), including high-speed voice and data cable modems, digital cable set-top boxes, and hybrid analog/digital cable set-top boxes; upconverter modules and chipsets used in headend modulators; and RF amplifiers used to send and receive signals between the cable headend and CPE. In this market, performance and overall solution cost are key factors in competing for design wins. Design cycles in the cable market can range from a few months to more than one year. • Digital Television Products targeted to this market receive digital terrestrial signals. These products are designed for use in consumer electronics devices such as integrated digital television (IDTV) sets; DTV peripheral devices, 4 Table of Contents such as digital terrestrial set-top converter boxes, satellite receivers that include one or more terrestrial tuners used to receive local high-definition television broadcasts, VCRs, portable DVD players, digital personal video recorders (DVRs) and DVD recorders; mobile televisions and PC/TV multimedia products, including both USB and PCI or PCI Express OEM and add-on devices. Products targeting these applications require both high performance and competitive overall solution cost. The design cycles for PC/TV are relatively shorter and require very low overall solution cost and low power consumption. Design cycles in the DTV market can range from a few months to more than one year for peripheral devices and from a few months to several months for PC/TV applications. • Automotive Electronics This market includes products targeted for mobile automotive and airline environments, including automobile and airline in-flight entertainment systems. Our automotive electronics products range from components for traditional AM/FM radios (including tuners and in-glass antenna amplifiers) to components for emerging entertainment applications, including in-car television, in-flight video, digital radio, including digital audio broadcast, and HD radio™. Both performance and overall solution cost are key competitive factors in this market. Design cycles in the automotive market are generally very long and can range from two to three years. Business Strategy Our goal is to be the leading supplier of RF tuner technology in our target markets. Key elements of our strategy to accomplish our goal include: • Focusing on RF tuner technology and products where we believe our experience, expertise and patent portfolio provide strategic and competitive advantages. • Leveraging our RF systems and support expertise to help our customers design superior performing and cost effective applications and devices. • Leveraging our core technologies and experience in real-world terrestrial environments to provide silicon solutions for evolving markets, including the digital and PC/TV multimedia markets. • Protecting or increasing our opportunities through expanded relationships with existing or new key partners. • Continuing to grow revenues and profits in the cable market through innovative product introductions and market share increases. • Investing in new products to target the significant long-term opportunities in the digital television market and target short-term opportunities in DTV peripheral devices to grow revenues and profits. • Combining our RF IC and systems expertise and established products to expand our presence in the automotive electronics market as this market transitions from modules to highly integrated RF IC solutions. Organization To implement our strategy effectively, our systems engineering and marketing teams are organized into two specialties: automotive and broadband electronics, which includes the cable and DTV markets. Our IC design, product and test engineering, mechanical design, quality, marketing communications, investor relations, sales, finance and accounting, information technology, legal, operations and human resources teams are generally centralized to achieve operational efficiencies. Markets The worldwide reliance on the internet; the transition from analog to digital transmission standards for both cable and terrestrial television; the greater use of broadband, mobile and wireless communications; and the 5 Table of Contents growing interrelation of televisions, personal computers, cable communications and the internet, coupled with an end-user desire for mobility, have fostered dramatic changes in business and consumer electronics, broadband communications and automotive electronics. These drivers have propelled the development of new classes of products and new forms of entertainment and information, based on innovative technologies that deliver better, faster and improved communications. • Cable According to an In-Stat study, total worldwide cable subscribers are projected to reach 400 million by 2008. During the last several years, the worldwide cable industry has evolved from a supplier of analog video programming to a competitive provider of digital voice, data and video services, including digital and high-definition formats and DVR functionality. In-Stat predicts that of the 400 million projected total worldwide cable subscribers, nearly 100 million subscribers will be subscribing to digital video service by 2008. In order to support these new services, cable service providers continue to invest in new technology and infrastructure, to upgrade their networks to 1 GHz to deliver consumers more channels; digital and HDTV programming; high-speed data communications; home networking; and two-way interactive services, including digital telecommunications and on-demand services. As a part of this upgrade, cable service providers continue to deploy new classes of digital consumer equipment that allow users to access a range of enhanced services such as: • Modems: Cable modems and Embedded Multimedia Terminal Adapters (EMTAs) can be stand-alone devices or integrated into set-top boxes. Cable modems enable high-speed internet service via two-way cable, while EMTAs enable Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) for digital phone service; and • Set-top Boxes: Digital interactive set-top boxes, which serve as the home access point for a number of video services, including high-definition (HD), standard-definition (SD) and analog channels and new applications such as DVRs and on-demand services. In some deployments, the digital interactive set-top box is evolving into a ‘home gateway,’ a multifunctional box designed to serve as the distribution ‘hub’ for home networked video, voice and/or data services. The cable industry’s adoption of industry standards, such as CableLabs® standards for DOCSIS® (cable modems) and PacketCable™ (EMTAs), as well as support for complementary standards, such as OpenCable™ (digital set-top boxes) and CableHome™ (home networking), has served as an additional catalyst to fuel the deployment of enhanced broadband services. These maturing standards are designed to ensure interoperability between different manufacturers’ customer premise equipment and cable infrastructure (headend) equipment products. They have stimulated a number of vendors to develop cost-effective, non-proprietary products that can operate efficiently and harmoniously in cable environments. We provide tuners and amplifiers for cable modems, EMTAs and set-top boxes, which support the two-way transmission of data to and from the consumer and the cable operator’s headend. Multiple tuners are increasingly implemented in cable set-top boxes to support simultaneous viewing of one channel while recording a second channel using a DVR, on-demand services and internet access. Historically, we have seen the demand for our products in the cable market follow a seasonal pattern, with the highest demand occurring during our fiscal second quarter and the lowest demand occurring during our fiscal fourth quarter resulting in a sequential decrease in net revenue from our fiscal third quarter. This seasonal pattern has also influenced our total net revenue since our net revenue from the cable market has historically represented the majority of our total net revenue. • Digital Television Television and Peripherals The worldwide transition to digital technologies represents a massive technology transformation. According to In-Stat, global DTV unit shipments are expected to grow from 68 million units in 2006 to over 144 million 6 Table of Contents units by 2011. As originally conceived, the idea of digital television was to deploy improved bandwidth efficiency techniques to provide either a picture with much greater detail than that provided by an analog channel, or to provide multiple digital video streams within the bandwidth of an existing analog channel. Any digital data, from digital video and audio to packetized internet data, can be broadcast using digital transmission. The definition of terrestrial ‘digital television’ is determined by standards adopted by various countries: the Advanced Television Systems Committee (ATSC) standard is deployed primarily in North America and the Digital Video Broadcast—Terrestrial (DVB-T) standard is implemented in Europe and other parts of the world. The Digital Video Broadcast—Handheld standard (DVB-H), targeted for mobile handheld devices, is expected to be implemented in Europe and other parts of the world. Japan, and more recently Brazil, have decided to adopt the Integrated Services Digital Broadcast—Terrestrial (ISDB-T) standard for digital terrestrial broadcast. In 2006, China also selected its own digital terrestrial standard, Digital Multimedia Broadcast—Terrestrial/Handheld (DMB-T/H), in advance of the 2008 Beijing Olympics. To receive digital television or other digital services, consumers require new kinds of products. Manufacturers have developed and continue to develop products with different feature combinations and options to determine what consumers will buy. These new digital television products include high-definition television (HDTV) sets; widescreen flat panel display television sets, liquid crystal display (LCD) and plasma display technologies and widescreen rear projection display television sets incorporating, for example, digital light processing (DLP®) technology; digital set-top boxes that decode digital signals for display on analog television sets; DVRs; mobile phones; notebook PCs and other portable handheld devices capable of receiving broadcast digital television; and other television peripherals. Driven by government mandates, terrestrial digital video transmission has already begun in a number of countries, including the United States, Australia, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and the United Kingdom, and the demand for digital television sets and related peripheral products is beginning to grow. We estimate that over 20 million DVB-T or multi-standard tuners were shipped in 2006 to manufacturers of set-top boxes and integrated digital television sets, not only to Western European countries such as the United Kingdom, Italy, Germany and France, but also to emerging DVB-T markets such as Russia and Australia. We expect this number to grow significantly as additional countries begin services using the DVB-T standard and as DVB-T tuners begin to become a standard feature for some television sets. In the United States, actions by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), backed by Congress and supported by industry organizations, are driving the transition to digital television technology. The FCC now requires the inclusion of digital tuners in virtually all devices that include a television tuner, including not only television sets, but also VCRs and DVD players. Because different transmission formats are used for digital terrestrial broadcasting and digital cable systems in the United States, digital televisions generally have not been able to directly receive and decode digital signals from cable service providers. The FCC addressed this shortcoming by adopting rules that will allow televisions to receive digital cable signals without the need for an external set-top box. The FCC created standards for digital cable ready (DCR) television sets. In early 2006, federal legislation was enacted that requires the termination of analog terrestrial (off-air) signals in the United States by February 17, 2009 (for “full power” analog transmitters). To ensure that all households can receive digital off-air television, this law also includes a provision to subsidize the cost of digital-to-analog converter set-top boxes that decode digital signals for display on analog televisions for those who have analog televisions receiving off-air broadcast signals or those who might otherwise not be able to afford to purchase a new digital television. The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) is the agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce that is charged with overseeing the $1 billion coupon-eligible converter box program (CECB). Starting January 1, 2008, all U.S. households will be eligible to request up to two coupons, worth $40 each, to be used toward the purchase of up to two digital-to-analog 7 Table of Contents converter boxes that have been certified by the NTIA to include specific features and meet certain performance specifications. The law and FCC mandates are expected to significantly impact the deployment of digital television products in coming years. Consumers’ desire to combine big-screen televisions with high-definition video and full surround sound audio systems has also been a key factor in driving sales of digital television products. Leichtman Research Group, Inc. found that approximately one-quarter of households in the United States have at least one television set capable of receiving high definition programming—essentially double the market penetration of HDTV of two years ago. Leichtman Research Group forecasts that over 85 million US households will have at least one HDTV by the end of 2012. We provide tuners and amplifiers used for the RF tuning and reception of signals for digital television products. PC/TV Multimedia Entertainment The advent of digital broadcast television is expected to be an important factor in the market for a new class of PC/TV products, the multimedia PC. These personal entertainment PCs converge personal computing with high-grade audio-visual capabilities, combining the functionality of a PC, HDTV, DVR, DVD recorder and CD player in a versatile platform. PC/TV tuners are emerging as essential components in these computers, including portable and desktop models. By 2010, In-Stat/MDR expects worldwide annual shipments of PC/TV tuners to exceed 50 million units. We provide tuners used for the RF tuning and reception of signals for multimedia PC products. Our tuner products for PC/TV can currently be found in PC/TV add-on cards and USB sticks. Mobile Television The convergence of consumer applications on mobile devices has stimulated the emergence of a new class of mobile, battery-powered devices, including mobile phones, that can deliver digital broadcast services for entertainment, information and communication while “on the go.” Many of the technical, commercial and standards issues for the delivery of mobile television broadcasts have already been addressed. Standards such as DVB-H, single segment ISDB-T, T-DMB and DMB-T/H have been specified and approved by standards bodies to support the mobile broadcast digital television model. Other protocols, such as MediaFLO™, have been developed to compete with these standards for the delivery of mobile television broadcasts. Although commercial mobile television services have been launched with these standards, significant consumer acceptance has yet to occur. Mobile devices have unique requirements in terms of power-consumption, screen size and mobility. The expansion of the mobile television market will depend largely on the collaborative efforts of mobile phone manufacturers, network owners, content providers, broadcasters and semiconductor suppliers. We provide very low-power tuners for the RF tuning and reception of signals for DVB-H-based mobile digital television products. • Automotive Electronics Technology convergence and integration is beginning to impact the automotive and airline industries. In the automotive electronics market, for example, low-cost communications, navigation, information and entertainment technologies are combining with traditional in-car display and audio systems to create new applications and potential new markets for in-car systems. Driven by consumer demand, new applications are rapidly evolving beyond the conventional car audio system to include digital sound systems, digital radio, such as 8 Table of Contents digital audio broadcast and HD radio™ and a suite of applications that allow passengers to watch digital television and video and play interactive games. These newer applications are expected to gain greater consumer acceptance during the next decade, driving continued market opportunity for providers of these products and services and for suppliers of the underlying technology. Currently, the majority of our products sold into the automotive electronics market are utilized in car televisions and AM/FM radios, primarily for European end markets. Demand for car television and newer digital radio is expected to grow rapidly as automakers begin offering a range of systems in more vehicles, moving from luxury cars into mid-priced models. Data delivered via RF communications is integral to these emerging automotive electronics applications, and we provide enabling technology, including AM/FM tuners, digital radio front-ends, antenna amplifiers, and in-car television tuners, which are incorporated into automotive electronics subsystems to support these applications. Currently, we are supplying module-based tuner products for radio applications, both silicon and module-based tuner products in-car video applications, and both silicon and module amplifiers for antenna amplifier applications. We are also currently developing silicon products for the automotive electronics market, although we expect the transition to silicon products within the automotive electronics market to take several years. Products The applications or devices associated with the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets require high levels of RF performance, power efficiency, functionality and integration, which must all be delivered with a low overall solution cost. Our products are engineered to address the complex, high-performance RF requirements of broadband transmission and reception. We classify our products into two types: integrated circuit products or ICs (also referred to as “silicon”) and subsystem-level RF solutions (called “modules”). • Integrated Circuit Products We offer a product portfolio that includes: MicroTuner Single-Chip Broadband Tuners Our premier products are our single-chip MicroTuner IC tuners. In 1999, we introduced the world’s first broadband television tuners with all active components implemented in a single microcircuit. We believe our MicroTuner chips are among the few single chip integrated circuit television tuners in high volume production today that incorporate all of the active elements of a RF broadband tuner, including low-noise and intermediate frequency amplifiers. Our MicroTuner chips are based on both a patented architecture and multiple patented integrated circuit implementations. Silicon Amplifiers We offer a family of amplifiers, including upstream amplifiers, Intermediate Frequency (IF) amplifiers and broadband antenna amplifiers, which can be used as companion products to our single-chip tuners, or used separately. These products enable or support a variety of specialized functions, including high-speed upstream cable communications and the distribution of a broadband signal across multiple tuners. Our silicon amplifiers support these functions by conditioning signals within the RF front end and boosting them for distribution through a system. The amplifiers also enable two-way communications capability in cable access applications and provide downstream amplification in automotive radio and in-car television applications. 9 Table of Contents • Subsystem-Level RF Solutions Our subsystem-level products, called modules, are RF solutions consisting of tuner and/or transmit/receive functions that are pre-assembled into tested, production-ready RF front-ends. Our subsystem solutions are available for multiple applications, including analog and digital car radio, analog and digital car television, in-flight entertainment, antenna amplifiers and headend upconverters. Some of our subsystem-level products contain our own IC components, which we believe provides a competitive advantage through high levels of functional integration. Our modules are pre-configured and pre-tested for ready placement on motherboards, printed circuit boards or chassis. See Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for discussion of net revenue by product type. Technology, Intellectual Property and Research and Development We were founded in 1996 on a commitment to RF IC innovation. We have an established track record of introducing advanced products, based on our pioneering RF IC technology, that address emerging markets and serve customers in existing markets. As of December 31, 2007, we had 117 technical personnel. Our technical team represents one of our most important strategic and competitive assets. Our team, comprised of RF, analog and digital IC, systems, and product and test engineers and technicians, enables us to produce differentiated RF IC and subsystem module solutions for applications in our targeted markets. Team members are located in our design centers in Plano, Texas; Plantation, Florida; Boulder, Colorado and Ingolstadt, Germany. We believe we have a strong intellectual property portfolio, which is of vital importance to our business as many of our competitors are larger, more diversified companies with substantially greater financial resources. Our ability to protect our proprietary innovations from exploitation by our competitors is crucial to our future success. We have in the past and will continue to vigorously pursue and maintain protection for the proprietary technology used in our products. Currently, we hold 76 issued United States utility patents and have more than 30 additional United States patent applications pending. Our issued United States patents begin to expire in 2015. Our patents generally cover various aspects of our RF and analog technologies at the broad architectural, circuit and building-block levels. See Part IV, Item 15., “Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules” for our patent license agreement with Broadcom Corporation. Our research and development expenses were $23.7 million, $21.4 million and $16.5 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Of these amounts, stock-based compensation expense comprised $2.4 million, $2.6 million and $0.5 million, respectively. We sponsor substantially all of our research and development activities. See Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of research and development expenses. Sales and Marketing As of December 31, 2007, our worldwide sales organization consisted of over 30 employees with offices located throughout the United States: Plano, Texas; Huntsville, Alabama; Duluth, Georgia; Naperville, Illinois; Campbell, California; Irvine, California and Raleigh, North Carolina, and in regional centers around the world: Ingolstadt, Germany; Taipei, Taiwan; Tokyo, Japan; Shenzhen, China; Seoul, South Korea and West Yorkshire, United Kingdom. Our sales organization consists of technical sales, service and customer support professionals and includes a field application engineering staff that is involved with customers during various phases of design 10 Table of Contents and production. The field applications engineering function, located throughout our worldwide sales offices, is a critical element in achieving customer design wins. We also provide customers with application engineering support from our Plano and Ingolstadt systems engineering personnel. We centralize and manage sales for all of our products across each of our target markets under one worldwide sales organization. We sell our products directly to our customers and via a network of distributors and independent sales representatives located around the world. Historically, revenues from international markets have represented the majority of our total revenues. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors” for a description of this risk and other risks. See Note 13, “Geographic Information and Significant Customers” to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of financial information by geographic area. Backlog Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. Industry fluctuations in the supply and demand balance for component parts result in frequent and potentially significant changes in the lead times provided by our customers when placing purchase orders. Although our backlog at the beginning of a quarter represents a significant portion of the net revenue we anticipate for that quarter, we do not believe that backlog is a reliable indicator of future revenue levels because our significant customers may cancel or reschedule orders upon relatively short notice. Customers We market and sell our ICs and subsystem module solutions directly to OEMs, ODMs and their suppliers who sell devices or applications to consumers, other OEMs or service providers (cable) within the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets. The devices or applications that our customers produce include cable television set-top boxes; high-speed voice and data cable modems; car audio, video and antenna amplifier systems; digital/analog televisions, including high-definition televisions; PC/TV multimedia products; and mobile televisions. We also market and sell to third-party manufacturers and to distributors who sell directly to OEMs and ODMs. We engage with customers at multiple levels within their organizations; provide design and systems services and applications engineering support; and align our product roadmaps to meet their product requirements. We supplied our IC and module products to more than 60 customers worldwide during the year ended December 31, 2007, including the following: Cable: Advanced Digital Broadcast, Asustek Computer (primarily for the benefit of ARRIS), Cisco, Hitron, Humax, Motorola, Pace, and Samsung. Digital Television: AMD, Hauppauge, Pace, TiVo and Toshiba. Automotive Electronics: Delphi Delco Electronics (formerly Fuba), Harman Becker Automotive Systems, Hirschmann Car Communications, Lear, Magnetti Marelli, Panasonic, Pilkington, Rockwell Collins and Thales. See Item 7., “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of net revenue from significant customers, including our dependence on the revenue from Cisco and ARRIS which together accounted for 50% of our net revenue in 2007. Manufacturing We use subcontractors for IC wafer production, die packaging and testing. This allows us to eliminate the high capital requirements of owning and operating semiconductor fabrication, packaging and test facilities. It 11 Table of Contents also enables us to focus on the design of our IC products as well as providing engineering support to our customers, where we believe we have the best opportunity to create and maintain competitive advantage. We have established relations with IC wafer foundries, IBM, Jazz Semiconductor and X-FAB, to help ensure our future demands are in line with their manufacturing technology roadmaps and capacities. These foundries offer a mature BiCMOS production process. In addition, IBM and Jazz Semiconductor offer advanced silicon germanium (SiGe) process technology. Our reliance on third-party suppliers involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and fabrication costs and the risk of material supply disruptions. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors” for a description of risks associated with reliance upon third-party suppliers. We use Amkor in South Korea and in the Philippines and ASE in South Korea for IC packaging and final test. We use Criteria Labs in Austin, Texas for wafer probe and in Penrose, Colorado for tape and reel packaging. We also use ISE in Austin, Texas for wafer probe. We also perform RF testing at our facility in Plano, Texas. Our reliance on these subcontractors and on certain third-party test equipment manufacturers involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and other related costs. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors.” During 2005, we entered into a five-year Manufacturing Agreement with Ionics EMS, Inc. (Ionics), a leading provider of electronics manufacturing services in the Philippines. See Note 2, “Subsystem Module Manufacturing Partner,” to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are exposed to manufacturing risks as a result of our dependence on a single manufacturing facility and a single sub-contractor for our subsystem module solutions. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors.” We also use Katek in Germany to build a small portion of our RF Module products. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, we may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated customer demand for our products. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors.” Competition The semiconductor industry, in general, and the markets in which we compete, in particular, are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, increasing degrees of component integration, evolving industry standards and price erosion. Many of our competitors are larger, more diversified companies with substantially greater financial resources. Some of our competitors are also customers who have internal IC and RF subsystems design and manufacturing capability. We also compete with smaller, emerging companies whose strategy is to sell products into specialized markets or to provide a portion of the products or product capabilities that we offer. We expect competition to continue to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter our markets. Although the specific basis on which we compete varies by market, we believe that the principal factors common to all our markets are: • Conformity to industry standards; • Performance improvements; • Price reductions; • Differentiating product features; • Time-to-market for new products; • Quality and reliability; • Application engineering support; and • Adaptability and flexibility to meet customers’ and target markets’ requirements. 12 Table of Contents We believe our competitive strengths include the expertise of our IC design and application and systems engineering support personnel, our adaptability and flexibility in meeting our customers’ requirements, our ability to consistently deliver products in the quantities and in the time frames requested by our customers and the high performance levels, conformity to industry standards and differentiating features of our products. We believe our principal competitive weakness is our limited product portfolio. Competitors with a broader product portfolio, for example, are able to bundle their products and provide more aggressive pricing to prospective customers. Cable Our major RF tuner competitors in the cable market include Alps, Anadigics, Broadcom, Entropic, LG Innotek, NXP Semiconductors, Panasonic, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, Thomson, and Xuguang. Digital Television Our major RF tuner competitors in the digital television market include Alps, Broadcom, DiBcom, Entropic, Freescale, Infineon, Intel, Maxlinear, Murata, NXP Semiconductors, Qingjia, Quantek and Xceive, as well as the captive tuner divisions of all the major consumer brands, including Konka, LG, Panasonic, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, Sanyo, Sharp, Sony, Toshiba and TTE. Automotive Electronics Tuner competitors in the automotive electronics market include Alps, Mitsumi, NXP Semiconductors, Panasonic and Sanshin. Environmental Matters International, federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other activities affecting the environment may have an impact on our operations. We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. To date, compliance with environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims has been accomplished without material effect on our liquidity or capital resources. Beginning in July 2006, our product shipments into certain regions of the world were required to conform to the European Union’s directive for the restriction of certain hazardous substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic equipment. We currently have RoHS-compliant versions of our silicon products and we are in the process of altering our applicable subsystem module solutions to also be RoHS-compliant. See Item 1A., “Risk Factors.” Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had a total of 206 employees worldwide, including 133 in research and development, 38 in sales and marketing and 35 in operations, finance and administration. Of these employees, 128 were located in the United States. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our success depends on the growth of the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets generally, the demand for RF products within these markets specifically and the success of our customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from sales of RF products into cable, digital television and automotive electronics applications or devices within the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets. These markets are characterized by: • intense competition; 13 Table of Contents • rapid technological change; • long design cycles; and • short product life cycles, especially in the PC and consumer electronics markets. The cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets may not grow in the future as anticipated or a significant market slowdown may occur. Further, demand for applications or devices that include our products or are targeted by our products, in particular, cable set-top boxes; high-speed voice and data cable modems; car audio, video and antenna amplifier systems; digital/analog televisions, including high-definition televisions; PC/TV multimedia products and mobile televisions may not grow at a rate sufficient for us to sustain profitability, or our customers’ market share may decline, even though demand in general is high, which would also adversely affect our financial results. In addition, since the mobile television market segment is a new market, and its development is subject to many contingencies and unknowns, it may develop much slower than currently expected or it may not develop at all. Because of the intense competition in the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets, the unproven technology of many products addressing these markets and the short product life cycles of many consumer applications or devices, it is difficult to predict the potential size and future growth rate of the markets for our RF products. In addition, the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets are transitioning from analog to digital standards, as well as expanding to new services, such as interactive television, portable or mobile television and on-demand services. The future growth of our RF product markets is dependent upon market acceptance of our customers’ applications and devices that incorporate our RF technology and address the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets, and we cannot assure you that our customers’ products and consequently, our underlying RF technology, will be accepted by any of the end customers in these markets. If the demand for our RF products is not as great as we expect, if we are unable to produce competitive products to meet that demand or if we are otherwise unable to capitalize on market opportunities, we may not be able to generate revenue growth or profitability. We depend on several significant customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. If we lose business from a significant customer, or if any of our significant customers lose market share in the markets in which they compete, our results would be significantly adversely affected. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of significant customers and we expect this trend to continue. The loss of any significant customer would significantly harm our revenue. Sales to our significant customers, including sales to their respective manufacturing subcontractors, as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Cisco/Scientific-Atlanta (a Cisco company) (1) (3) 32 % 23 % 22 % Asustek Computer (2) 18 % 17 % 18 % Ten largest customers (3) 82 % 76 % 74 % (1) Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco) completed its acquisition of Scientific-Atlanta on February 27, 2006. Net revenue generated from Cisco, excluding Scientific-Atlanta, was insignificant during 2006 and 2005. (2) Primarily for the benefit of ARRIS. (3) Includes respective manufacturing subcontractors. Further, several existing and potential customers have substantial internal technological capabilities and could develop products internally that compete with or replace our products. A decision by any of our significant customers to internally design and manufacture products that compete with our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future prospects. We believe that our future results of operations will continue to depend on the success of our significant customers, on our ability to sell existing and new products to these customers in significant quantities and 14 Table of Contents without significant price erosion and on our ability to diversify our customer base. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers very attractive prices on our products, which could impact our overall pricing strategy. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a significant customer, a reduction in sales to any significant customer or a significant decrease in our sales prices made to retain a significant customer would harm our revenue and consequently our results of operations and financial condition. We generate the majority of our net revenue and income from the cable market. Market specific risks affecting the cable market could result in decreased net revenue and income. We face significant competition from other module and silicon tuner suppliers as we compete for business with certain key set-top box and high-speed cable modem manufacturers. Protecting our share of this market and our ability to capture future growth opportunities in this market will depend on our ability to develop products that anticipate the needs of our customers, develop products in the timeframes required by our customers, and develop products at a cost that is attractive to our customers. If we are not successful, we may lose share in this market, or potentially lose a significant customer, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers in the cable market face significant competition from other set-top box and high-speed cable modem manufacturers as they target the business of key cable service providers on a global basis. We also rely on our customers’ ability to develop products that meet the needs of the cable service providers, in terms of functionality, performance, availability and price. If our customers do not successfully compete, they may lose market share, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Cable service providers are facing significant competition from communications carriers (including, in many cases, traditional telecommunications companies) and satellite service providers as they compete for customers in terms of video, voice and data services. We are also dependent on the ability of the cable service providers to effectively compete against communications carriers and satellite service providers. If the cable service providers do not successfully compete, they may lose market share, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Market-specific risks affecting the integrated digital television, PC/TV and television peripheral market segments of the digital television market could impair our ability to compete successfully in that market. The market for digital television applications in integrated digital televisions, PC/TVs and television peripherals is characterized by various market-specific risks, any of which may adversely affect our ability to compete in that market. Examples of market-specific risks affecting these market segments include: • the risk that module tuners that offer the same or similar functionality as our silicon tuner solutions will continue to be used by OEMs and will be viewed as more attractive by our current and potential customers, including the use by our potential customers of “captive” module tuner suppliers due to more favorable economic terms; • the risk that module tuners that offer the same or similar functionality as our silicon tuner solutions will be sold at lower prices than our silicon tuner solutions; • the risk that the PC/TV market will not be as large as anticipated or our share in the market will be lower than anticipated; • the risk that tuner performance requirements for the PC/TV market are less stringent and thereby increase the competitive element in this market; 15 Table of Contents • the risk that the suppliers of module tuners who currently sell tuners to television manufacturers that we are currently targeting with our silicon tuner may lower their prices, including to levels below their cost, in order to protect their existing relationships, thereby making our tuner uncompetitive from a customer cost perspective; • the risk that we will be unable to develop silicon tuners that meet the performance requirements of our customers; • risks related to systems integration and other risks, including the timing of open design windows, inherent in the highly complex design-in process of the products designed to address this market; • the risk that we will not be able to finalize the highly complex design-in process for a particular customer application during the narrow customer design window; • the risk that module products implementing our silicon tuners will not be selected by potential end customers due to the economics of the entire module solution where other components are unattractively priced; • the risk that our products will not have the feature set desired by our customers or will not be architecturally compatible with other components in the customers’ designs; • the risk that an influx of entrants into the digital television market due to the transition to all digital broadcasts will accelerate average selling price erosion; and • the risk that multi-standard, poly-band, universal television tuners will be preferred by digital television manufacturers and our multi-standard, poly-band, universal television tuners may not meet performance expectations or be available in the necessary timeframe. Our efforts to penetrate the digital television market, in particular, will depend on our ability to overcome the challenges described above and upon eventual acceptance of our new digital television products, such as the MT2131. To the extent our efforts are adversely affected by any of these risks or are otherwise unsuccessful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The market opportunity for coupon eligible converter boxes (CECB) may not be as large as anticipated or we may not realize significant market share in this segment of the digital television market. In anticipation of the planned termination of analog terrestrial (off-air) television broadcasts in the United States in February 2009 (for “full power” analog transmitters) and the transition to digital terrestrial television broadcasts, the federal government has recently launched a program to subsidize the purchase of digital to analog converter boxes by consumers who wish to continue to watch television on their legacy analog televisions, which do not have a digital tuner and therefore would be otherwise unable to receive digital terrestrial television broadcast signals without a separate converter box that converts the digital signals to analog signals. This market is characterized by various market risks described above for the digital television market generally and market specific risks for the CECB market segment described immediately below, any of which may adversely affect our ability to compete effectively in the CECB market segment: • the risk that we may not be able to achieve early, significant market share and given the short duration of the CECB market segment (January 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009), there may not be significant design-in opportunities after the initial tuner component selections to later increase market share; • the risk that the CECB market segment will not be as large as anticipated; • the risk that the minimum RF performance levels required for set-top converter box performance to qualify for government subsidies will be relaxed or eliminated, or will, by virtue of the fact that adherence to the A/74 guidelines is partially self-policing and a function of the performance of other non-tuner parts, be ineffective and thereby allow suppliers with non-compliant tuners to realize significant market share in this segment; and 16 Table of Contents • the risk that our tuner may not be deemed compliant with the A/74 guidelines, which would significantly diminish or eliminate our ability to participate in this opportunity. We operate in an intensely competitive business and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources and operating flexibility, which allow them to compete effectively against us in existing markets and may affect our ability to enter or effectively compete in new markets. The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological changes, increasing degrees of component integration, evolving industry standards and price erosion. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. This competition has resulted and may continue to result in declining average selling prices for our RF products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover research and development and manufacturing costs. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards become well known and as other competitors enter our target markets. We compete with, or may in the future compete with, a number of major domestic and international suppliers of integrated circuit and system modules in the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets. In most cases we compete directly against system module solutions or against other integrated circuit module substitute products similar to our own. In some cases our product is used inside a system module, in which case we compete against a large number of IC solutions providing various levels of integration. Companies providing system module solutions against whom we compete include captive and non-captive module suppliers such as Alps, LG Innotek, Konka, Murata, Mitsumi, NXP Semiconductors, Panasonic, Qingjia, Samsung Electro-Mechanics, Sanshin, Sanyo, Sharp, Sony, Thomson, Toshiba, TTE and Xuguang. Integrated circuit companies against whom we compete for designs within system modules or compete for discrete designs intended to replace system modules include Anadigics, Broadcom, DiBcom, Entropic, Freescale, Infineon, Intel, Maxlinear, NXP Semiconductors, Quantek and Xceive. Average selling prices for products offered by competitor tuner module manufacturers continue to erode substantially, causing our silicon product offerings to be less attractive to potential customers and further limiting our design win opportunities, especially in the digital television market. Many of our current and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: • longer operating histories and established market positions in key markets; • greater name recognition; • access to larger customer bases; • significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, management, technical and other resources; • existing relationships with potential customers as a result of the sales of other components, which can be leveraged into sales of products competitive with our RF products; • existing relationships with partners in joint ventures or investing activities, which can be leveraged into sales of products competitive with our RF products; and • broader product and service offerings that may allow them to compete effectively by bundling their tuner products with their other products and services, by legal or illegal means. As a result, our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products which may harm our current market position and impact our ability to enter or compete effectively in new markets. If we do not compete successfully, we may lose market share in our existing markets, our gross margins may fail to increase or may decline, and we may experience other material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Our success is highly dependent on our relationships with our strategic demodulator partners. Our RF products are designed to be interoperable with various specific demodulator integrated circuit products that are designed and manufactured by other companies. Historically, we have relied on informal strategic relationships with various demodulator manufacturers to enable both parties to offer an interoperable tuner/demodulator solution to our mutual end customers. Although we work in concert with our third-party demodulator partners to complete highly functional reference designs, we have no control over our partners’ future product plans and product roadmaps and could be effectively designed out of future customer applications by the refusal of a demodulator partner to continue to support our products. Likewise, our ability to acquire new customers is highly dependent on the cooperation of third-party demodulator manufacturers. If such third-party manufacturers decide to partner with our competitors or to provide their own tuner solution, we would effectively be prevented from selling our products to potential new customers. This risk is especially present in the mobile television market segment, where there are currently few demodulator partners and many tuner competitors. Furthermore, our dependence on these third-party demodulator manufacturers often limits the strategic direction of the company. If we were to design products that were competitive with any of such demodulator manufacturers, they may choose to stop working with us. Our current principal demodulator partners are Texas Instruments in the cable modem market and ST Microelectronics in the cable set-top box market. If any of our current or prospective demodulator partners were to stop working with us in favor of other tuner manufacturers or in favor of deploying their own tuner products, we would be effectively designed out of current and potential customer’s products and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and our future prospects. The average selling price of our products will likely decrease over time. If the selling price reductions are greater than we expect, or if we are unable to effectively counter average selling price erosion, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Historically, the average selling price of our products has decreased over their lives. In addition, as the markets for RF integrated circuit and module products mature, we believe that it is likely that the average unit prices of our RF products will decrease in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, new product introductions, competitive product bundling and a transition in our markets from higher priced module products to lower priced integrated circuits. To offset these decreases, we expect to primarily rely on achieving manufacturing cost reductions for existing products and introducing new products with higher levels of integration that can be sold at higher average selling prices. Although we will seek to increase the sales of our higher margin products, our sales and product development efforts may not be successful and our new products may not achieve market acceptance. To the extent we are unable to reduce costs or sell our higher margin products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we do not complete our design-in activities before a customer’s design window closes, we will lose the design opportunity, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and future prospects. The timing of our design-in activities with key customers and prospective customers may not align with their open design windows, which may or may not be known to us, making design win predictions more difficult. It may be difficult for us to determine our customer’s design window timing. If we miss a particular customer’s design window, we may be forced to wait an entire year or even longer for the next opportunity to compete for the customer’s next design. Because the timing of our design-in activities with key customers and prospective customers are not always aligned with these customers’ open design windows, it is extremely difficult for us to make design win predictions. Any failure to complete a design-in during a customer’s design window may eliminate or substantially delay revenues from certain target customers and markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future prospects. 18 Table of Contents Other solutions for the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets compete with some of our solutions. If these solutions prove to be more reliable, faster, less expensive or more popular than our solutions, the demand for our RF products and our revenue may decrease. Some of our target market segments, such as cable modem and cable telephony services, are competing with a variety of non-RF based broadband communications solutions, including digital subscriber line (DSL) technology and certain fiber to the home solutions. Many of these technologies compete effectively with cable modem and cable telephony services and do not require RF tuners like the ones that we sell. If any of these competing technologies are, or are perceived to be, more reliable, faster, less expensive, able to reach more customers or have other advantages over RF broadband technology, the demand for our RF products may decrease, which would cause our revenue to decrease accordingly. Also, some of the consumer devices that currently incorporate our RF products, e.g., televisions, may not use our tuners or other products we sell in the future. Such changes in device features or functionality could adversely affect our business, results of operations and future prospects. Industry participants may consolidate or establish financial or strategic relationships, adversely impacting our ability to compete in our markets. Consolidation by industry participants, such as acquisitions of our customers, suppliers or partners by our competitors, or acquisitions of our competitors by our customers, suppliers or partners, could result in competitors with increased market share, larger customer bases, greater diversified product offerings and greater technological and marketing expertise, which would allow them to compete more effectively against us. Current and potential competitors may also gain such competitive advantages by establishing financial or strategic relationships with existing or potential customers, suppliers or other third-parties. These new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge rapidly and acquire significant market share. In addition, some of our suppliers or partners offer or may offer products that compete with our RF products. Further, we rely upon some of our partners for certain joint reference design and marketing activities and some of our products are incorporated in some of our partners’ reference designs that are provided to potential customers. Depending on the participants, industry consolidation or the formation of strategic relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations by reducing our ability to compete successfully in our current markets and the markets we are seeking to serve. We expect our quarterly results of operations to continue to fluctuate. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect such quarterly results to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are not in our control. These factors may include: • the timing, cancellation and rescheduling of significant customer orders, potentially with short notice periods; • the ability of our customers to procure the other necessary components for their end-products that utilize our products in order to conduct their operations; • pricing concessions on volume sales to particular customers for established time frames and our ability to respond to general downward pressure on the average selling prices of our products; • cyclical or seasonal slowdowns and general downturns in customer demand or related industry-wide increases in inventories; • our ability to predict our customers’ demand for our products, manage production and inventory levels in response to product life cycles and other factors and minimize the effects of obsolete or excessive inventory; • design wins and changes in our product and customer mix; 19 Table of Contents • labor disputes at our subsystem module manufacturer’s facility in the Philippines or at any of our other subcontractors, which may cause temporary slowdowns or shutdowns of operations; • problems with our products that result in significant returns; • inadequate allocation of wafer, assembly or test capacity for our silicon products by our subcontractors and/or allocation of components used in our module products by our suppliers; • inconsistent or non-linear quarterly revenue that may result from our entry into new markets, such as mobile television, or new consumer products, such as digital television set-top converter boxes because our customers may have difficulty accurately determining the initial demand for their new products; • acts of terrorism or military action occurring anywhere in the world; and • acts of God or force majeure. It is likely that our quarterly results of operations will be adversely affected by one or more of the factors listed above, or other factors. If our future results of operations fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our research and development efforts are critical to our business and if these efforts are unsuccessful, it will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any future success will depend, in large part, upon our ability to develop new RF products for existing and new markets; our ability to introduce these new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; and our ability to meet customer specifications and convince leading manufacturers to select these new products for design into their new products. Developing new products and improving our existing products requires substantial continuing investments of engineering resources. We have often encountered and continue to encounter difficulties attracting and retaining the highly sophisticated engineering personnel required to timely develop our products and meet our customers’ design windows. In addition, the development of new RF products is highly complex and, from time to time, we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. In addition, some of our new product development efforts are focused on producing silicon products utilizing architectures and technologies with which we have little or no experience, and delivering performance characteristics, such as low power consumption, at levels that we have not previously achieved. Our efforts to address the mobile television market segment, in particular, will depend on our ability to co-develop certain integrated products with certain partners. These co-development efforts involve inherently higher development risk and because they involve third-parties, they provide us with less control over the development effort. In addition, some of our past research and development efforts have failed. For example, our Bluetooth® products never gained wide market acceptance. Successful product development depends on a number of factors, including: • the accuracy of our prediction of emerging market requirements and evolving standards; • the acceptance of our new product designs by our customers and of our customers’ products by their customers and consumers; • the availability of qualified product designers and our ability to attract and retain them; and • our ability to successfully design, develop, manufacture and integrate new components to increase our product functionality in a timely manner. Due to the relatively small size of our product design team, our research and development efforts in our core technologies may lag behind those of our competitors, some of whom have substantially greater financial and technical resources. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to develop and introduce new RF products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, and any new products we develop and offer may never achieve market acceptance. These failures would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties with respect to our RF products, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand for these products, we may incur excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margin, or we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders, and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers, including our most significant customers, in terms of volume of sales. Our standard terms and conditions (which do not apply to some of our key customers) typically provide that our customers may cancel orders scheduled to ship outside 90 days. Further, our terms typically provide that customers may reschedule orders that are scheduled to ship outside 30 days, but customers typically are restricted to the number of days they can delay the ship date and the number of times that they can reschedule orders. However, we have permitted customers to cancel orders less than 90 days before the expected date of shipment and to re-schedule shipments less than 30 days before the expected date of shipment, with little or no penalty. We currently do not have the ability to accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face volatile pricing and unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. However, we place orders with our suppliers based on non-binding forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, or at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would forego revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. The sales cycle for our RF products is long, and we incur substantial non-recoverable expenses and devote significant resources to sales that may not be realized when anticipated, if at all. Our customers, and sometimes their customers, typically conduct significant evaluation, testing, implementation and acceptance procedures before they purchase our RF products. These evaluation processes are frequently lengthy and may range from three months to one year or more. As a result, we expend significant financial and human resources to develop customer relationships before we realize any revenue from these relationships. In fact, we may never realize any revenue from these efforts. In many situations, our customers design their products to specifically incorporate our RF products, and our RF products must be designed to meet their stringent specifications. This process can be complex and may require significant engineering, sales, marketing and management effort on our part. This process may also require significant engineering and testing by our customers and, if our customers do not have sufficient capabilities to complete the process, they may become dissatisfied with our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We customize a substantial portion of our RF subsystem module products to address our customers’ specific RF needs. If we do not sell our customer-specific products in large volumes, we may be unable to cover our fixed costs or may be left with substantial unsaleable inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture a substantial portion of our RF subsystem module products to address the unique needs of our individual customers. Frequent product introductions by systems manufacturers make our future success dependent on our ability to select development projects that will result in sufficient volumes to enable us to achieve manufacturing efficiencies to cover our fixed costs. Because some of our customer-specific RF module products are developed for unique applications, we expect that some of our current and future customer-specific 21 Table of Contents RF module products may never be produced in sufficient volume to cover our fixed costs. In addition, if our customers fail to purchase these customized RF module products from us, we risk having substantial unsaleable inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A product recall by a major customer could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally warrant our commercial products for a period of one year, and longer for automotive electronics products. If a customer experiences a problem with our products and subsequently returns our products to us in large quantities for rework or replacement, the cost to us could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our agreements with our customers contain “line down” clauses, product liability clauses and/or intellectual property warranty and indemnification clauses. We are currently subject to “line down” clauses in agreements with certain customers. Such clauses require us to pay financial penalties if our failure to supply products in a timely manner causes the customer to slow down or stop their production. Such penalties could be large and, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also subject to product liability clauses and/or intellectual property warranty and indemnification clauses in some of our customer agreements, and where we do not have agreements, we are subject to such default provisions in the relevant jurisdiction’s embodiment of the Uniform Commercial Code. Such clauses and warranties require us to pay financial penalties if we supply defective product, which results in financial damages to the customer, or to indemnify the customer for third-party actions based on the alleged infringement by our products of a third-party’s intellectual property. Such penalties or obligations could be large and, if incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to maintain or grow revenue from international sales could harm our financial results. Net revenue from outside of North America was 64%, 66% and 66% for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We plan to increase our international sales activities by adding international sales personnel, sales representatives or distributors. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot do so. Even if we are able to expand our international operations, we may not succeed in maintaining or increasing international market demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our revenues have historically come from our international customers, and, as a result, our business may be harmed by political and economic conditions in foreign markets and the challenges associated with operating internationally. Historically, revenues from international markets have represented the majority of our total net revenue. We expect net revenue from international markets to continue to represent the majority of our total net revenue for the foreseeable future. International business activities involve certain risks, including: • difficulties involved in the staffing and management of our geographically dispersed operations; • longer sales cycles in certain countries, especially on initial entry into a new geographical market; • greater difficulty evaluating a customer’s ability to pay, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and greater difficulty in the collection of past-due accounts; • general economic conditions in each country; • challenges associated with operating in diverse cultural and legal environments; • seasonal reductions in business activity specific to certain markets; 22 Table of Contents • loss of revenue, property and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism and other political risks; • foreign taxes and the overlap of different tax structures, including modifications to the United States tax code as a result of international trade regulations; • greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; • foreign technical standards; • import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; and • existence or adoption of laws and regulations affecting the operation and taxation of our business and the general business climate for foreign companies. To the extent our international sales are adversely affected by any of these risks or are otherwise unsuccessful, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We extend credit to our customers, sometimes in large amounts, but there is no guarantee every customer will be able to pay our invoices when they become due. At various times, our accounts receivable is concentrated in a few customers. As part of our routine business, we extend credit to customers purchasing our products. At December 31, 2007, approximately 57% of our net accounts receivable was due from five of our customers. While our customers may have the ability to pay on the date of shipment or on the date credit is granted, their financial condition could change and there is no guarantee that customers will ever pay the invoices. Because all of our customers do not have the same credit terms, our outstanding accounts receivable balance can become concentrated in a smaller number of customers than our overall net revenue. This concentration can subject us to a higher financial risk and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our customers’ products are subject to governmental regulation. Governmental regulation could place constraints on our customers and consequently reduce their demand for our RF products. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, has broad jurisdiction over several of our target markets in the United States. Similar governmental agencies regulate our target markets in other countries. Although most of our products are not directly subject to current regulations of the FCC or any other federal or state communications regulatory agency, much of the equipment into which our products are incorporated is subject to direct governmental regulation. Accordingly, the effects of regulation on our customers or the industries in which they operate may, in turn, impede sales of our products. For example, demand for our RF products will decrease if equipment incorporating our products fails to comply with FCC specifications. Our dependence on a single manufacturing facility and a single subcontractor for almost all of our subsystem module solutions could jeopardize our operations. The majority of our subsystem module solutions manufacturing operations are subcontracted to Ionics EMS, Inc. Such operations are conducted at a single facility in Manila, Philippines. We are exposed to manufacturing risks as a result of our dependence on a single manufacturing facility and a single sub-contractor for our subsystem module solutions. Such risks include lack of control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, quality and fabrication costs and the risk of material supply disruptions due to labor disputes, terrorism, political unrest, war, process abnormalities, human error, theft, government 23 Table of Contents intervention, or a natural disaster such as a fire, earthquake, or flood. If we encounter any significant delays or disruptions, including those caused by our subcontractor’s inability to procure component parts or supply us with product, we may not be able to meet our manufacturing and testing requirements, which could cause a significant delay in our ability to deliver our products, resulting in losses and potential enforcement of contractual “line down” clauses by our customers, potentially subjecting us to legal expenses and settlement payments. Additionally, our subcontractor could elect to close its production facility or require us to move to another production facility or subcontractor. Any resulting delay could result in increased expense and costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We depend on third-party wafer subcontractors to manufacture all of our integrated circuit products, which reduces our control over the integrated circuit manufacturing process and could increase costs and decrease the availability of our integrated circuit products. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. We primarily rely on IBM, Jazz Semiconductor and X-FAB, outside subcontractors, to produce most of our RF integrated circuit products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and fabrication costs and the risk of material supply disruptions. We do not have a long-term supply agreement with our subcontractors and instead obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis. Our subcontractors have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period or in any specific quantity, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements, generally, represent a small portion of the total production capacity of these subcontractors, and they may reallocate capacity to other customers even during periods of high demand for our integrated circuits. If our subcontractors were unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing our integrated circuits, our business would be materially adversely affected. In such an event, we would be required to identify and qualify substitute subcontractors, which would be time consuming and difficult, and may result in unforeseen manufacturing and operational problems. In addition, if competition for foundry capacity increases, our product costs may increase, and we may be required to pay significant amounts to secure access to manufacturing services. If we do not qualify or receive supplies from additional subcontractors, we may be exposed to increased risk of capacity shortages due to our dependence on IBM, Jazz Semiconductor and X-FAB. In addition, the processing of our IC products is specific to the manufacturing processes of a given supplier and substantial lead-time would be required to move the specific product to another supplier, if it were possible at all. Although we have begun using Jazz Semiconductor as an alternate source for certain of our IC products, there can be no assurance that the establishment of an alternate manufacturing source would successfully mitigate the risks identified above. We depend on third-party subcontractors for integrated circuit probing, packaging and testing, which reduces our control over these processes and could result in increased costs and decreased availability of our integrated circuit products. Our integrated circuit products are probed, packaged, and/or tested by independent subcontractors, including Amkor, ASE, ISE and Criteria Labs, using facilities located in South Korea, Philippines, and Austin, Texas. We do not have long-term agreements with these subcontractors and typically obtain services from them on a purchase order basis. Furthermore, our subcontractors are dependent on certain third-party test equipment manufacturers. Our reliance on these subcontractors and on certain third-party test equipment manufacturers involves risks such as reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and costs. These risks could result in product shortages or increase our costs of probing, packaging and testing our products. If these subcontractors are unable or unwilling to continue to provide probing, packaging and testing services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. In such an event, we would be required to identify and qualify substitute subcontractors, which could be time consuming and difficult and may result in unforeseen operational problems. 24 Table of Contents If our customers do not qualify our products or the manufacturing lines of our third-party suppliers for volume shipments, our revenue may be delayed or reduced. Some customers will not purchase any of our products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing lines for the product. We may not always be able to satisfy the qualifications. Delays or failure to qualify can cause a customer to discontinue use of our products and result in a significant loss of revenue. If we change third-party suppliers, customers may require us to qualify the new supplier’s facility, or a product manufactured by that facility. We believe that transitioning our silicon products to newer or better manufacturing process technologies will be important to our future competitive position. If we fail to make this transition efficiently, our competitive position could be seriously harmed. We continually evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to higher performance or lower cost process technologies in order to produce higher performance, more efficient or better integrated circuits because we believe this migration is required to remain competitive. Other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in migrating to new process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. We may experience similar difficulties. Moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with subcontractors to successfully migrate to newer or better processes. Our foundry suppliers may not make newer or better process technologies available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis, if at all. If our foundry suppliers do not make newer or better manufacturing process technologies available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis, or if we experience difficulties in migrating to these processes, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and business prospects. Uncertainties in our production planning process could have a material adverse effect on our business. For many of our products, our manufacturing lead-time is greater than the delivery lead-times we quote our customers. Therefore, in many cases we routinely manufacture or purchase inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our RF products, which demand is difficult to predict. The cancellation or re-scheduling of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory that could substantially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to produce and ship RF products to our customers in a timely manner could harm our reputation and damage our relationships with our customers. The semiconductor industry is cyclical. If there is a sustained upturn in the semiconductor market, there could be a resulting increase in demand for foundry and other subcontracted services, significantly reducing product availability and increasing our costs. The semiconductor industry periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints. An increase in demand for semiconductors could substantially increase the cost of producing our RF products, and consequently reduce our profit margins. As a result, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future results of operations due to general semiconductor industry conditions. Our business may be harmed if we fail to protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements and procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. We currently have patents issued and pending in the United States and in foreign countries. We intend to seek further United States and international patents on our technology. We cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications, that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold or that any claims will be allowed from pending applications or will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. While we generally seek patent protection for our innovations, it is possible that some of these innovations may not be protectable. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our 25 Table of Contents competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. In addition, even when we do hold valid patents that we could potentially assert against a competitor’s infringing products, it may not be practicable, effective or cost-efficient for us to enforce our intellectual property and contractual rights fully, particularly, where the initiation of a claim might harm our business relationships or risk a debilitating countersuit by a competitor with patents that may read on our products. Our competitors also may be able to design around our patents. The laws of some countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, increasing the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. In addition to patent and copyright protection, we also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our customers, partners, suppliers and employees. We cannot be certain that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that trade-secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known by others. Although we intend to protect and vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Our competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts and procedures to protect our intellectual property through the prosecution of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets and other methods, we cannot assure you that our current intellectual property or any intellectual property we may obtain through acquisitions or by other means will be free from third-party claims which may be valid. Any third-party claims may lead to costly and time-consuming litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property may cause us to become involved in costly and lengthy litigation that could seriously harm our business and compromise our intellectual property position. We have been involved in intellectual property litigation in the past and may become involved in intellectual property litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or defend against allegations of infringement asserted by others. Legal proceedings could subject us to significant liability for damages or invalidate our proprietary rights either through litigation or a petition for USPTO re-examination initiated by a competitor. Any litigation, regardless of its outcome, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. The expense associated with intellectual property litigation, the diversion of time and attention of our management and technical personnel from our daily operations caused by such litigation and any legal limitation placed upon our products and/or our business related to such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, we have initiated, and may initiate in the future, claims or litigation against third-parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish their validity. Even if we successfully assert our intellectual property against a competitor in litigation, our patents may be challenged through a USPTO re-examination, which cannot be settled by the mutual agreement of the parties. Our ability to sell our RF products may be adversely affected if it is determined that we or our customers infringe on the intellectual property of a third-party or if any of our issued patents are determined to be invalid. The electronics industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which may result in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. Our customers may 26 Table of Contents be subject to infringement claims for their products which incorporate our RF products. If any claims of infringement are made against any of our customers, our customers may seek to involve us in the litigation and demand indemnification from us. The resolution of such a claim against our customer may cause our customer to reduce or completely eliminate marketing its infringing product, which would decrease our sales of RF products to this customer. Further, if our customer were to prevail in its claim for indemnification against us, or if we were found to infringe any third-party intellectual property, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages and royalties on our historical and future product sales; • indemnify our customers for their legal fees and damages paid; • stop manufacturing, using and selling the infringing products; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; • discontinue the use of some of our processes; or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property to sell or use the relevant technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be unsuccessful in developing non-infringing products or obtaining licenses upon commercially reasonable terms. We may be unable to resolve these problems which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not anticipate and adapt to evolving industry standards in the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets, or if industry standards develop more slowly than we expect, our products could become obsolete and we could lose market share. Applications and devices for cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets often are based on industry standards that are continuously evolving. We have often directed our development toward producing RF products that comply with these evolving standards. In some cases, the development of these standards takes longer than originally anticipated. The delayed development of a standard in our target markets has and could result in slower deployment of new technologies, which can harm our ability to sell our RF products, or frustrate the continued use of our proprietary technologies, due to the anticipation of the deployment of a standard. The continued delay in the development of these industry standards could result in fewer manufacturers purchasing our RF products in favor of continuing to use the proprietary technologies designed by our competitors. Such delayed development of industry standards and the resulting slower deployment of new technologies would result in diminished and/or delayed revenue and consequently harm our business. Additionally, our competitors may attempt to relax anticipated standards that we have expended significant research and development funds to meet, thereby eliminating any technical advantages that our products may have. Further, if new unexpected industry standards do emerge, and we have failed to accurately anticipate or design products that meet such standards, our products or our customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete. Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future standards and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards is a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. Our inability to anticipate the evolving standards for our RF products in the cable, digital television and automotive electronics markets, or to develop and introduce new products that are functionally and economically competitive into these markets, could result in diminished revenue and, consequently, harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these evolving standards. 27 Table of Contents We have experienced volatility in our stock price and it may fluctuate in the future. Therefore, you may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid for them. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. For example, during 2007, our common stock traded at prices as low as $4.06 and as high as $6.88 per share. Such fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • quarterly variations in our financial performance; • our business prospects; • the performance and prospects of our major customers; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • short-term investor trading strategies; • recent changes in accounting rules related to the expensing of equity awards; • general financial and other market conditions; and • domestic and international economic and political conditions. Public stock markets have experienced, and are currently experiencing, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Currency fluctuations related to our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A significant portion of our international revenue and expenses are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, and we have experienced significant fluctuations in our financial results due to changing exchange rates rather than operational changes. For example, the foreign currency exchange gain was $0.3 million in 2007. We expect to continue to rely significantly on international sales and foreign subcontractors for the foreseeable future. As a result, we expect currency fluctuations to continue, and such fluctuations may significantly impact our financial results in the future. Currently, we do not engage in currency hedging activities, and in the future, we may choose to engage in currency hedging activities to reduce these fluctuations, which may or may not prove to be successful. We may need to obtain the capital required to grow our business. From time to time, we may find it necessary or we may choose to seek additional financing if our strategic growth plans change, or if industry or market conditions are favorable for a particular type of financing. Our capital requirements depend upon several factors, including the need to fund future acquisitions, the capital required to meet our research and development objectives, the rate of market acceptance of our products, our ability to expand our customer base, our level of expenditures for sales and marketing, the cost of product and service upgrades and other factors. If our capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise 28 Table of Contents additional funds if needed. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. Further, if we issue equity securities, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If we issue debt securities, the debt securities generally will have rights senior to those of existing holders of equity securities. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire strategic businesses, develop our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Our business could be disrupted if we are unable to successfully integrate any businesses, technologies, product lines or services that we may acquire in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may review and selectively pursue potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage, complement our technical capabilities, or that would otherwise provide growth opportunities. While we currently have no imminent plans to pursue an acquisition, we may make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures or strategic alliances with other companies in the future, which may entail many risks. Specific examples of risks that could relate to such transactions include: • risks that we will be unable to successfully integrate the acquired company’s personnel and businesses; • risks that we will be unable to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale or other value associated with the transactions; • risks related to acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles that could negatively affect our reported results of operations; • risks that such transactions will divert management’s time and attention and disrupt our ongoing business; • risks that we will be unable to retain key technical and managerial personnel of the acquired company; • risks that we will be unable to establish and maintain uniform standards controls, procedures and policies; • risks related to unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements and the assumption of unknown liabilities or other unanticipated events or circumstances; • risks that the acquired company’s customers will not desire to conduct business with us; • risks related to strained relationships with employees, suppliers and customers resulting from the integration of new personnel; and • risks related to strained relationships with strategic partners who may compete with the acquired company. In addition, future acquisitions or investments may require us to materially reduce our cash reserves, issue additional equity, which would be dilutive to our stockholders, or to incur debt. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or joint venture will be successfully integrated with our operations and the failure to avoid these or other risks associated with such acquisitions or investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Quality Certifications are subject to periodic re-evaluation. Our design facility located in Ingolstadt, Germany is currently ISO-9001:2000 and ISO-14001 certified. These certifications and others are subject to recertification on a periodic basis. If we are unable to obtain any such recertification, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 Table of Contents Our products are subject to certain environmental standards. Beginning in July 2006, our product shipments into certain regions of the world were required to conform to the European Union’s directive for the restriction of certain hazardous substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic equipment. We currently have RoHS-compliant versions of our silicon products and we are in the process of altering our applicable subsystem module solutions to also be RoHS-compliant. If our customers are unable to re-qualify the lead-free versions of our products or our subsystem module manufacturers are unable to meet the RoHS/lead-free standards in a timely manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations, including our operations in Germany, Japan, Taiwan, China, South Korea and the United Kingdom, the operations of our international suppliers and our overall financial results may be adversely affected by events that occur in or otherwise affect these countries. We currently have facilities and suppliers located outside of the United States, including research and development operations in Germany and sales offices in Japan, Taiwan, China, South Korea and England. Other than IBM, Jazz Semiconductor, ISE and Criteria Labs, substantially all of our suppliers are located outside the United States, and substantially all of our products are manufactured outside the United States. As a result, our operations are affected by the local conditions in those countries, as well as actions taken by the governments of those countries. For example, if the Philippines government enacts restrictive laws or regulations, or increases taxes paid by manufacturing operations in that country, the cost of manufacturing our products in the Philippines could increase substantially, causing a decrease in our gross margins and profitability. In addition, if any country, including the United States, imposes significant import restrictions on our products, our ability to import our products into that country from our international manufacturing and packaging facilities could be diminished or eliminated. Local economic and political instability in areas in the Far East, in particular in the Philippines and South Korea, where there has been political instability in the past, could result in unpleasant or intolerable conditions for workers, and ultimately could result in a shutdown of our facilities or our subcontractor’s facilities. Our success could be jeopardized by the loss of key personnel or an inability to attract qualified candidates. Any success we may have in the future, including our ability to grow and support future customers, will depend to a significant degree upon the continued service of our personnel, particularly our key personnel and executive management. The members of our executive management team are not generally parties to employment agreements with Microtune. The loss of one or more members of our executive management team or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel with experience in RF engineering, integrated circuit design and software and technical marketing and support. We are extremely dependent on certain key engineering personnel. Should we lose one or more of these key engineering personnel, it would have a material adverse effect on our ability to design our products and support our customers. Additionally, if we do not meet our hiring targets, we may be unable to support our key prospective customers and we may lose the ability to enter large emerging markets, resulting in a material adverse effect on our future prospects. We rely heavily upon equity compensation incentives, such as options to purchase our common stock to attract, retain and motivate such personnel. The equity incentives of our competitors and other elements of our competitors’ compensation structures, particularly cash compensation, may be significantly more attractive than the compensation packages we offer. With respect to retaining personnel, the market price of, or other price attainable for, our common stock directly affects the relative attractiveness and effectiveness of our stock options as a recruiting and retention tool. In the past, our common stock price has been substantially higher than currently prevailing prices. Any future 30 Table of Contents poor operating performance we experience may cause the price of our common stock to decline from current levels. In addition, due to the recent issuance of SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, requiring companies to recognize the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments in the financial statements, we may change our strategy for compensating employees. A lower market price of our common stock, along with any related deterioration in the morale of our personnel regarding this component of their compensation, may result in our loss of personnel, including key personnel and executive management. These personnel losses could reasonably be expected to have a prompt, material and adverse effect on our business and operations. Additionally, we may have to explore the possibility of opening design centers in locations where attractive candidates prefer to live. We opened a design center in Plantation, Florida in February 2006 and in Boulder, Colorado in September 2006 in order to acquire additional engineering talent. To the extent we pursue the strategy of opening additional remote locations, our cost structure may increase at a higher rate than if attractive candidates were employed at existing facilities. The competition for attracting qualified candidates is intense, particularly in the RF silicon and RF systems industries. Our ability to attract qualified candidates is essential to any success we may have in the future. For the reasons described above, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical, management, and other candidates necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our RF products in the future. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may deter takeover efforts and limit the ability of our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. Several provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that you may consider favorable and therefore may prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares of our common stock. Those provisions include: • a provision authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock; • a provision prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a provision limiting the persons who may call special meetings of the Board of Directors or the stockholders; • a provision prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • a provision establishing super-majority voting requirements in some instances; and • a provision providing rights to purchase fractional shares of preferred stock to our existing stockholders in the event of certain acquisition attempts. On May 25, 2005, our stockholders approved certain amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws that had the effect of declassifying our Board of Directors so that all of our directors must stand for election every year at our annual meeting of stockholders. The declassification of our board of directors was a requirement of our settlement in 2005 of certain consolidated derivative stockholder litigation. 31 Table of Contents The matters relating to the investigation by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors into our stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements has resulted in derivative litigation and a formal investigation by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and may result in future litigation and governmental inquiries which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. On July 27, 2006, we announced that the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, with the assistance of independent legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option granting practices covering the time from our initial public offering in August 2000 through June 2006. On November 1, 2006, the Audit Committee announced that it had concluded that the actual accounting measurement dates for certain past stock option grants differed from the accounting measurement dates previously used in accounting for such grants. Because, in certain cases, the prices on the previously used measurement dates were lower than the prices on the actual measurement dates, we determined that we should have recognized material amounts of stock-based compensation expense in connection with these transactions. Therefore, we concluded that our previously filed unaudited interim and audited annual consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, as well as the unaudited interim financial statements for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006, should no longer be relied upon because these financial statements contained misstatements and would need to be restated. We disclosed this conclusion in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on November 1, 2006. On January 22, 2007 we filed with the SEC certain restated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, as well as unaudited interim financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. We voluntarily contacted the SEC in July 2006 regarding the Audit Committee’s independent investigation into our stock option granting practices, and representatives of the Audit Committee met with the SEC in February 2007 and again in July 2007 to discuss the findings of the Audit Committee’s investigation. On July 6, 2007, we learned that the SEC’s investigation into our stock option granting practices had become formal in April 2007. We also have voluntarily provided documents to the SEC during all phases of its inquiry. We have fully cooperated and will continue to fully cooperate with the SEC in its investigation of these matters. On January 31, 2007, a purported stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas—Sherman Division against current and former officers and directors of Microtune and against Microtune, as a nominal defendant, alleging various breaches of fiduciary duties, conspiracy, improper financial reporting, insider trading, violations of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, unjust enrichment, gross mismanagement, abuse of control, and waste of corporate assets related to certain prior grants of stock options by Microtune. All defendants, including Microtune, have filed motions to dismiss the complaint. Briefing on the motions was completed in June 2007, and we are awaiting a ruling from the court. The court has stayed discovery while the motions to dismiss are pending. The SEC investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the derivative litigation described above have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, has diverted our management’s attention from our business, and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that the pending derivative litigation, SEC investigation or any future litigation or governmental action will result in the same conclusions reached by the Audit Committee. While we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct accounting measurement dates for stock option grants, the SEC may disagree with our accounting measurement date determinations and also may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock 32 Table of Contents option grant accounting measurement date errors, and there is a risk that the SEC investigation could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior SEC filings, or otherwise take other actions not currently contemplated. Any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent SEC reports and the delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us or our current officers and directors which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 2, “Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. We have been the target of several securities fraud class action and stockholder derivative complaints in the past and continue to be at risk of future securities class action and stockholder derivative litigation. The lawsuit filed on January 31, 2007 or litigation filed in the future could result in substantial costs to us, drain our resources and divert our management’s time and attention. Initial Public Offering Litigation Starting on July 11, 2001, multiple purported securities fraud class action complaints were filed against us, certain former executive officers and certain investment banks that served as underwriters of our initial public offering. This case was consolidated with over 300 similar cases filed in the Southern District of New York challenging initial public offerings and secondary offerings conducted in 1998, 1999 and 2000. We previously accepted a settlement proposal presented to all issuer defendants. In December 2006, however, the United States Second Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the District Court’s certification of the consolidated cases as a class action litigation. The plaintiffs and issuers are now attempting to amend or renegotiate the settlement, but there can be no assurance that the settlement can be successfully renegotiated and, if renegotiated, will be approved by the courts. On July 30, 2007, we received a letter demanding on behalf of a purported Microtune stockholder that we prosecute a claim against certain of Microtune’s IPO underwriters in addition to certain officers and directors for alleged violations of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, which prohibits short-swing trading. The purported stockholder failed to give us sufficient information to adequately consider the demand and failed to verify her status as a Microtune stockholder. We believe that this demand is related to the IPO securities litigation described above. On October 9, 2007, this same purported Microtune stockholder filed Vanessa Simmonds v. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., JP Morgan Chase & Co. and Microtune, Inc. Microtune was named as a nominal defendant in this action, which is styled as a “Complaint for Recovery of Short-Swing Profits under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.” No damages are alleged against or sought from Microtune. The suit was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington at Seattle. Stockholder Derivative Litigation As described above, on January 31, 2007, a purported stockholder derivative lawsuit was filed against current and former officers and directors of Microtune and against Microtune, as a nominal defendant, alleging various breaches of fiduciary duties, and other claims related to certain prior grants of stock options by the Company. There is no guarantee that our insurance coverage, including our directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, will be sufficient to cover any potential liability and any shortfall in insurance coverage would impact our cash position which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We purchase various insurance policies to cover specifically designated risks in varying amounts. There is no guarantee that when a claim arises under any of the covered risks that our coverage will be sufficient to cover 33 Table of Contents the entire claim or that any specific claim will be covered, even in part, by insurance. Furthermore, directors’ and officers’ liability insurance may not be available to us in sufficient amounts to cover any claims made or defense costs incurred if securities litigation is filed against us in the future. These factors may result in rapid and substantial depletion of our cash reserves, and this depletion may result in our inability to properly operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 