ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should read carefully the following factors as well as the cautionary statements referred to in "Forward-Looking Statements" herein. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report actually occur, the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The prices for gas, oil and NGL are volatile, and a decline in such prices could adversely affect QEP's results, stock price and growth plans. Historically gas, oil and NGL prices have been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile in the future. U.S. natural gas prices in particular are significantly influenced by weather and weather forecasts. Any significant or extended decline in commodity prices would impact the Company's future financial condition, revenue, operating results, cash flow, return on invested capital, and rate of growth. In addition, significant and extended declines in commodity prices could limit QEP's access to sources of capital or cause QEP to delay or postpone some of its capital projects. Because a significant portion of QEP Energy's future production is gas, the Company's financial results are substantially more sensitive to changes in gas prices than to changes in oil prices. QEP cannot predict the future price of gas, oil and NGL because of factors beyond its control, including but not limited to: •changes in domestic and foreign supply of gas, oil and NGL;•changes in local, regional, national and global demand for gas, oil, NGL and related commodities;•the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;•domestic and global economic conditions;15•regional price differences resulting from available pipeline transportation capacity or local demand;•terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;•the level of imports of, and the price of, foreign gas, oil and NGL;•the potential long-term impact of an abundance of gas, oil and NGL from unconventional sources on the global and local energy supply;•political developments and actions in the United States and in or affecting other producing countries, including conflicts in the Middle East, Africa, South America and Russia;•weather conditions and weather forecasts;•government regulations and taxes, including regulations or legislation relating to climate change or oil and gas exploration and production activities;•technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply;•conservation efforts;•the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels, including coal, nuclear energy and biofuels;•demand for electricity as well as natural gas used for fuel for electricity generation;•storage levels of gas, oil, and NGL; and•the quality of oil and gas produced.Lower commodity prices may reduce the amount of gas, oil and NGL that QEP can produce economically. In addition, lower commodity prices may result in asset impairment charges from reductions in the carrying values of QEP's oil and gas properties or a reduction in the carrying value of goodwill. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, QEP recorded impairment charges of $1.2 million and $107.6 million, respectively, on its proven properties and $32.3 million and $25.4 million, respectively, on its unproven properties. QEP also recorded a $59.5 million impairment of goodwill in 2013. See Part I, Item 8, Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Slower economic growth rates in the U.S. may materially adversely impact QEP's operating results. The U.S. and other economies are recovering from a global financial crisis and recession that began in 2008. Growth has resumed but has been modest and at an unsteady rate. There could be significant long-term effects resulting from the financial crisis and recession, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than that experienced in the years leading up to the crisis, and more volatility may occur before a sustainable growth rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate is likely to result in decreased demand growth for QEP's gas, oil and NGL production. A decrease in demand, excluding changes in other factors, could potentially result in lower commodity prices, which would reduce QEP's cash flows from operations and its profitability.Multi-well pad drilling may result in volatility in QEP operating results. QEP utilizes multi-well pad drilling where practical. Because wells drilled on a pad are not brought into production until all wells on the pad are drilled and completed and the drilling rig is moved from the location, multi-well pad drilling delays the commencement of production, which may cause volatility in QEP’s quarterly operating results.The Company may not be able to economically find and develop new reserves. The Company's profitability depends not only on prevailing prices for gas, oil and NGL, but also its ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Producing oil and gas reservoirs are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics. Because oil and gas production volumes from QEP wells typically experience relatively steep declines in the first year of operation and continue to decline over the economic life of the well, QEP must continue to invest significant capital to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Oil and gas reserve estimates are imprecise and subject to revision. QEP's proved oil and gas reserve estimates are prepared annually by independent reservoir engineering consultants. Oil and gas reserve estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of these estimates depends on the quality of available data and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserve estimates are imprecise and will change as additional information becomes available. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves and future net cash flows prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary significantly. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revisions of previous estimates. In addition, the estimation process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, operating costs, severance and other taxes, capital expenditures and remediation costs. Actual results most likely will vary from the estimates. Any significant variance from these assumptions could affect the recoverable quantities of reserves attributable to any particular properties, the classifications of reserves, the estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves and the present value of those reserves. 16Investors should not assume that QEP's presentation of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Reserves in this Annual Report is reflective of the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC disclosure rules, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from QEP's proved reserves are based on the first-of-the-month prior 12-month average prices and current costs on the date of the estimate, holding the prices and costs constant throughout the life of the properties and using a discount factor of 10 percent per year. Actual future production, prices and costs may differ materially from those used in the current estimate, and future determinations of the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows using similarly determined prices and costs may be significantly different from the current estimate. Shortages of, and increasing prices for, oilfield equipment, services and qualified personnel could impact results of operations. The demand for and availability of qualified and experienced personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, in addition to geologists, geophysicists, engineers, landmen and other professionals in the oil and gas industry, can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and gas prices, causing periodic shortages. There have also been regional shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for specialized rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. These cost increases could impact profit margin, cash flow and operating results or restrict the ability to drill wells and conduct operations, especially during periods of lower oil and gas prices.QEP's operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which QEP may not be adequately insured. There are operational risks associated with the gathering, transporting, storage, processing and treating of natural gas; the fractionation, transportation and storage of NGLs; and oil transportation and production handling; including: •injuries and/or deaths of employees, supplier personnel, or other individuals;•fire, explosions and blowouts;•aging infrastructure and mechanical problems;•unexpected drilling conditions such as abnormally pressured formations;•pipe, cement or casing failures;•title problems;•equipment malfunctions and/or mechanical failure on high-volume wells;•security breaches, cyber attacks, piracy, or terroristic acts;•theft or vandalism of oilfield equipment and supplies, especially in areas of increased activity;•severe weather that could affect QEP's operations;•plant, pipeline, railway and other facility accidents and failures;•truck and rail loading and unloading; and•environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, pipeline or tank ruptures, or discharges of air pollutants, brine water or well fluids into the environment, including from hydraulic fracturing activities.QEP could incur substantial losses as a result of injury or loss of life, pollution or other environmental damage, damage to or destruction of property and equipment, regulatory compliance investigations, fines or curtailment of operations; or attorney's fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As a working interest owner in wells operated by other companies, QEP may also be exposed to the risks enumerated above from operations that are not within its care, custody or control. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Certain segments of QEP's pipelines run through such areas. In spite of QEP's precautions, an accident or other event could cause considerable harm to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect on QEP's financial position and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks once realized could further result in lost business. Such circumstances could adversely impact QEP's ability to meet contractual obligations.Consistent with industry practice, QEP generally indemnifies drilling contractors and oilfield service companies (collectively, contractors) against certain losses suffered by the operator and third parties resulting from a well blowout or fire or other uncontrolled flow of hydrocarbons, regardless of fault. Therefore, QEP may be liable, regardless of fault, for some or all of the costs of controlling a blowout, drilling a relief and/or replacement well and the cleanup of any pollution or contamination resulting from a blowout as well as for claims for personal injury or death suffered by QEP's employees and others. QEP's drilling contracts and oilfield service agreements, however, generally provide that the contractor will indemnify QEP for claims related to injury and death of employees of the contractor and for property damage suffered by the contractor.17As is also customary in the oil and gas industry, QEP maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these potential risks and losses. Although QEP believes the coverage and amounts of insurance that it carries are consistent with industry practice, QEP does not have insurance protection against all risks that it faces because QEP chooses not to insure certain risks, insurance is not available at a level that balances the costs of insurance and QEP's desired rates of return, or actual losses may exceed coverage limits. Lack of availability of refining or transportation capacity could impact results of operations. The lack of availability of satisfactory oil, gas and NGL transportation, including trucks, railways and pipelines, or refining capacity may hinder QEP's access to oil, NGL and gas markets or delay production from its wells. QEP's ability to market its production depends in substantial part on the availability and capacity of transportation or refineries owned and operated by third parties. Although QEP has some contractual control over the transportation of its production through firm transportation arrangements, third-party systems may be temporarily unavailable due to market conditions, mechanical failures, accidents or other reasons. If transportation facilities do not exist near producing wells, if transportation or refining capacity is limited or if transportation or refining capacity is unexpectedly disrupted, completion activity could be delayed, sales could be reduced, or production shut in each of which could reduce profitability. For example, during the third quarter of 2013, growing volumes on third-party gathering systems in QEP’s South Antelope area of the Williston Basin resulted in problems with the redelivery of oil from gathering systems to downstream markets. As a result, QEP was forced to take oil off the gathering system and truck it to rail-loading facilities, which delayed QEP’s operations and, as a result of additional trucking costs, reduced QEP’s realized prices. In addition, there have been rail accidents involving crude oil carriers, which may result in new restrictions on transportation of oil by railway. Furthermore, if QEP were required to shut in wells, it might also be obligated to pay shut-in royalties to certain mineral interest owners in order to maintain its leases; or depending on the specific lease provisions, some leases could terminate. If transportation quality requirements change, QEP might be required to install or contract for additional treating or processing equipment, which could increase costs. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, transportation pressures, damage to or destruction of transportation facilities and general economic conditions could also adversely affect QEP's ability to transport oil and gas.QEP acts as the general partner of a publicly traded master limited partnership, QEP Midstream, which may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than QEP’s historic business operations. One of QEP's subsidiaries acts as the general partner of QEP Midstream, a publicly traded master limited partnership. QEP’s control of the general partner of QEP Midstream may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to QEP Midstream. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on QEP’s future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Certain of QEP's undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to lease agreements that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. Leases on oil and gas properties typically have a term of three to five years after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established. If QEP's leases expire and QEP is unable to renew the leases, QEP will lose its right to develop the related reserves. While QEP seeks to actively manage its leasehold inventory by drilling sufficient wells to hold the leases that it believes are material to its operations, QEP's drilling plans are subject to change based upon various factors, including drilling results, oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints and regulatory approvals.QEP’s identified potential well locations are scheduled over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of their drilling. In addition, QEP may not be able to raise the substantial amount of capital that would be necessary to drill its potential well locations. QEP’s management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain well locations as an estimation of its future multi-year drilling activities on its existing acreage. These well locations represent a significant part of QEP’s growth strategy. QEP’s ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including oil and gas prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, gathering system and pipeline transportation constraints, access to and availability of water and water disposal facilities, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these factors, QEP does not know if the numerous potential well locations QEP has identified will be drilled or if QEP will be able to produce oil and gas from these or any other potential well locations. In addition, any drilling activities QEP is able to conduct on these potential locations may not be successful or result in QEP’s ability to add additional proved reserves to its overall proved reserves or may result in a downward revision of its estimated proved reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on QEP’s future business and results of operations. The fees charged by QEP to third parties under its gathering and processing agreements may not escalate sufficiently to cover increases in costs, or the agreements may not be renewed or may be suspended in some circumstances. QEP's costs may increase at a rate greater than the fees it charges to third parties for gathering, treating and processing services. 18Furthermore, third parties may not renew their contracts with QEP. Additionally, some third parties' obligations under their agreements with QEP may be permanently or temporarily reduced due to certain events, some of which are beyond QEP's control, including force majeure events wherein the supply of either gas, oil or NGL are curtailed or cut off. Force majeure events include (but are not limited to): wars, acts of enemies, embargoes, import or export restrictions, strikes, lockouts, fires, storms, floods, earthquakes, acts of God, explosions and mechanical or physical failures of equipment affecting QEP's facilities or facilities of third parties. If the escalation of fees is insufficient to cover increased costs, if third parties do not renew or extend their contracts with QEP or if third parties suspend or terminate their contracts with QEP, the Company's financial results would suffer.QEP is required to pay fees to its service providers based on minimum volumes regardless of actual volume throughput. QEP has contracts with third-party service providers for transportation services with minimum volume delivery commitments. As of December 31, 2013, QEP’s long-term contractual obligation under these agreements was $790.3 million. QEP is obligated to pay fees on minimum volumes to service providers regardless of actual volume throughput, which fees could be significant and have a material adverse effect on its results of operations.QEP is dependent on its revolving credit facility and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. If QEP is unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, QEP may experience a decline in its oil and gas production rates and reserves. QEP is partially dependent on external capital sources to provide financing for certain projects. The availability and cost of these capital sources is cyclical, and these capital sources may not remain available, or the Company may not be able to obtain financing at a reasonable cost in the future. Over the last few years, conditions in the global capital markets have been volatile, making terms for certain types of financings difficult to predict, and in certain cases, resulting in certain types of financing being unavailable. If QEP's revenues decline as a result of lower gas, oil or NGL prices, operating difficulties, declines in production or for any other reason, QEP may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain its operations at current levels. The Company utilizes its revolving credit facility, provided by a group of financial institutions, to meet short-term funding needs. All of QEP's debt under its revolving credit facility is floating-rate debt. From time to time, the Company may use interest-rate derivatives to manage the interest rate on a portion of its floating-rate debt. The interest rates for the Company's revolving credit facility are tied to QEP's ratio of indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDAX (as defined in the credit agreement). QEP's failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of its operations relating to exploration and development of its prospects or construction of new oil and gas processing facilities, which in turn could lead to a possible reduction in QEP's oil or gas production, reserves and revenues, and could negatively impact its results of operations. A downgrade in QEP's credit rating could negatively impact QEP's cost of and ability to access capital. Although QEP is not aware of any current plans of credit rating agencies to lower their ratings on QEP's debt, QEP's credit ratings may be subject to future downgrades. A downgrade of credit ratings may make it more difficult or expensive to raise capital from financial institutions or other sources. A downgrade in QEP's credit rating below a certain level could limit the amount of debt that QEP may incur. In addition, a downgrade could affect QEP's requirements to provide financial assurance of its performance under certain contractual arrangements and derivative agreements.QEP's debt and other financial commitments may limit its financial and operating flexibility. QEP's total debt was approximately $3.0 billion at December 31, 2013. QEP also has various commitments for leases, drilling contracts, derivative contracts, firm transportation, and purchase obligations for services and products. QEP's financial commitments could have important consequences to its business including, but not limited to, limiting QEP's ability to fund future working capital and capital expenditures, to engage in future acquisitions or development activities, to pay dividends to shareholders, or to otherwise realize the value of its assets and opportunities fully because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows from operations to payments on its debt or to comply with any restrictive terms of its debt. Additionally, the credit agreements governing QEP's revolving credit facility, term loan facility and the indentures covering QEP’s senior notes contain a number of covenants that impose constraints on the Company, including restrictions on QEP's ability to dispose of assets, make certain investments, incur liens and engage in transactions with affiliates.QEP is exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of QEP's receivables and commodity derivative transactions. QEP has significant credit exposure to outstanding accounts receivable from purchasers of its production, joint interest and working interest owners as well as customers in all segments of its business. Because QEP is the operator of a majority of its production and major development projects, QEP pays joint venture expenses and in some cases makes cash calls on its non-operating partners for their respective shares of joint venture costs. These projects are capital intensive and, in some cases, a non-operating partner may experience a delay in obtaining financing for its share of the joint venture costs. Counterparty liquidity problems could result in a delay in QEP receiving proceeds from commodity sales or reimbursement of joint venture costs. Credit enhancements, such as financial guarantees or prepayments, have been obtained from some but not all parties. Nonperformance by a trade creditor or joint venture partner could result in financial losses. In addition, QEP's 19commodity derivative transactions expose it to risk of financial loss if the counterparty fails to perform under a contract. During periods of falling commodity prices, QEP's commodity derivative receivable positions increase, which increases its counterparty credit exposure.QEP faces various risks associated with the trend toward increased opposition to oil and gas exploration and development activities. Opposition to oil and gas drilling and development activity has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in the U.S. Companies in the oil and gas industry, such as QEP, are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, environmental compliance and business practices. Anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain projects such as the development of oil or gas shale plays. For example, environmental activists continue to advocate for increased regulations on shale drilling in the U.S., even in jurisdictions that are among the most stringent in their regulation of the industry. Future activist efforts could result in the following: •delay or denial of drilling and other necessary permits;•shortening of lease terms or reduction in lease size;•restrictions on installation or operation of production, gathering or processing facilities;•setback requirements from houses, schools and businesses;•towns, cities, states and counties considering bans on certain activities, including hydraulic fracturing;•restrictions on the use of certain operating practices, such as hydraulic fracturing, or the disposition of related waste materials, such as hydraulic fracturing fluids and produced water;•increased severance and/or other taxes;•cyber attacks;•legal challenges or lawsuits;•negative publicity about QEP;•increased costs of doing business;•reduction in demand for QEP's products; and•other adverse effects on QEP's ability to develop its properties and increase production.QEP may incur substantial costs associated with responding to these initiatives or complying with any resulting additional legal or regulatory requirements that are not adequately provided for and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. QEP's use of derivative instruments to manage exposure to uncertain prices could result in financial losses or reduce its income. QEP uses commodity-price derivative arrangements to reduce exposure to the volatility of gas, oil, and NGL prices, and to protect cash flow and returns on capital from downward commodity price movements. To the extent the Company enters into commodity derivative transactions, it may forgo some or all of the benefits of commodity price increases. Additional financial regulations may change QEP's reporting and margining requirements relating to such instruments. Furthermore, QEP's use of derivative instruments through which it attempts to reduce the economic risk of its participation in commodity markets could result in increased volatility of QEP's reported results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of derivatives are recorded in QEP's income, which creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic impact to QEP has occurred during the applicable period. QEP has incurred significant unrealized gains and losses in prior periods and may continue to incur these types of gains and losses in the future. QEP enters into commodity-price derivative arrangements with credit-worthy counterparties (banks and energy-trading firms) that do not require collateral deposits. QEP is exposed to the risk of counterparties not performing. The amount of credit available may vary depending on QEP's counterparty's assessment of QEP's credit risk.Relative changes in NGL and gas prices may adversely impact QEP's results due to changes in the frac spread. Approximately 18%, 23% and 30% of QEP Field Services' net operating revenues for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were derived from keep-whole processing agreements. Under QEP's keep-whole processing contracts, QEP is exposed to the frac spread and transportation and fractionation exposure from firm transportation constraints. Generally, the frac spread and, consequently, the net operating margins are positive under these contracts. In the event gas becomes more expensive on a Btu equivalent basis than NGL products, QEP's cost of keeping the producer "whole" would result in operating losses. Due to timing of gas purchases and liquid sales, direct exposure to changes in market prices of either gas or liquids can be created, because there is an offsetting purchase or sale that remains exposed to market pricing. Through QEP's marketing and derivatives activity, direct exposure may occur naturally or QEP may choose direct price exposure to either gas or liquids when QEP favors that exposure over frac spread risk. Given that QEP has derivative positions, adverse movement in prices to the positions QEP has taken will negatively impact results. 20QEP has made significant investments in new cryogenic gas processing plants in its Northern Region (Rockies) in recent years. The expected returns on these investments depend in large part on the future ethane price and margin, which historically have been more volatile than the price of other NGL products, including propane, butane and gasoline. QEP's competitors have also made significant investments in gas processing plants that recover significant volumes of ethane. The U.S. ethane market is currently oversupplied, and probably will remain oversupplied in the foreseeable future, resulting in lower ethane prices.QEP faces significant competition and certain of its competitors have resources in excess of QEP's available resources. QEP operates in the highly competitive areas of oil and gas exploration, exploitation, acquisition and production. QEP faces competition from: •large multi-national, integrated oil companies;•U.S. independent oil and gas companies;•service companies engaging in oil and gas exploration and production activities; and•private equity funds investing in oil and gas assets.QEP faces competition in a number of areas such as: •acquiring desirable producing properties or new leases for future exploration;•marketing its gas, oil and NGL production;•obtaining the equipment and expertise necessary to operate and develop properties; and•attracting and retaining employees with certain critical skills.Certain of QEP's competitors have financial and other resources in excess of those available to QEP. Such companies may be able to pay more for oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects and to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than QEP's financial or human resources permit. In addition, other companies may be able to offer better compensation packages to attract and retain qualified personnel than QEP is able to offer. This highly competitive environment could have an adverse impact on QEP's business. QEP may be unable to make acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses and/or assets, or adjust to the effects of divestitures, causing a disruption to its business. One aspect of QEP's business strategy calls for acquisitions of businesses and assets that complement or expand QEP's current business, such as QEP's acquisition in the Williston Basin completed in September 2012 and its Permian Basin Acquisition completed in February 2014. QEP cannot provide assurance that it will be able to identify additional acquisition opportunities. Even if QEP does identify additional acquisition opportunities, it may not be able to complete the acquisitions due to capital constraints. Any acquisition of a business or assets involves potential risks, including, among others:•difficulty integrating the operations, systems, management and other personnel and technology of the acquired business with QEP's own;•the assumption of unidentified or unforeseeable liabilities, resulting in a loss of value;•the inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate QEP's growing business and assets; or •a decrease in QEP's liquidity to the extent it uses a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions or operations of the acquired properties. Organizational modifications due to acquisitions, divestitures or other strategic changes can alter the risk and control environments, disrupt ongoing business, distract management and employees, increase expenses and adversely affect results of operations. Even if these challenges can be dealt with successfully, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, divestiture or other strategic change may not be realized. In addition, QEP’s credit agreements and the indentures governing QEP’s senior notes impose certain limitations on QEP's ability to enter into mergers or combination transactions. QEP’s credit agreements also limit QEP’s ability to incur certain indebtedness, which could indirectly limit QEP’s ability to engage in acquisitions of businesses.QEP may be unable to dispose of non-core, non-strategic assets on financially attractive terms, resulting in reduced cash proceeds. QEP's business strategy also includes sales of non-core, non-strategic assets. QEP continually evaluates its portfolio of assets related to capital investments, divestitures and joint venture opportunities such as QEP's current plans to sell non-core E&P assets located in the Midcontinent during 2014. Various factors can materially affect QEP's ability to dispose of assets on terms acceptable to QEP. Such factors include current commodity prices, laws, regulations and the permitting process impacting oil and gas operations in the areas where the assets are located, willingness of the purchaser to assume certain liabilities such as asset retirement obligations, QEP's willingness to indemnify buyers for certain matters, and other factors. 21Inability to achieve a desired price for assets, or underestimation of amounts of retained liabilities or indemnification obligations, can result in a reduction of cash proceeds, a loss on sale due to an excess of the asset's net book value over proceeds, or liabilities that must be settled in the future at amounts that are higher than QEP had expected.The potential separation of QEP’s midstream business may not achieve its intended results. In December 2013, QEP announced its intention to pursue a separation of its midstream business. QEP may not be successful in consummating such a transaction. If QEP does consummate the separation of its midstream business, the separation may not achieve its intended results and could have an adverse effect on QEP due to a number of factors. For example, the separation may significantly reduce the scope and scale of QEP’s business, QEP may not be able to grow as expected and QEP may incur proportionately higher costs to operate. QEP is involved in legal proceedings that may result in substantial liabilities. Like many oil and gas companies, QEP is involved in various legal proceedings, such as title, royalty, and contractual disputes, in the ordinary course of its business. The cost to settle legal proceedings or satisfy any resulting judgment against QEP in such proceedings could result in a substantial liability, which could materially and adversely impact QEP's cash flows and operating results for a particular period. Current accruals for such liability may be insufficient. Judgments and estimates to determine accruals or range of losses related to legal proceedings could change from one period to the next and such changes could be material.Failure of the Company's controls and procedures to detect errors or fraud could seriously harm its business and results of operations. QEP's management, including its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, does not expect that the Company's internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are being met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls are evaluated relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of QEP's controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in the Company have been detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. QEP is subject to complex federal, state, tribal, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect its cost of doing business and recording of proved reserves. QEP's operations are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local tax, energy, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. The failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations can result in substantial penalties and may threaten the Company's authorization to operate. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more onerous over time. The regulatory burden on the Company's operations increases its cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. In addition to the costs of compliance, substantial costs may be incurred to take corrective actions at both owned and previously owned facilities. Accidental spills and leaks requiring cleanup may occur in the ordinary course of QEP's business. As standards change, the Company may incur significant costs in cases where past operations followed practices that were considered acceptable at the time, but now require remedial work to meet current standards. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in fines, significant costs for remedial activities, or injunctions that could limit the scope of QEP's planned operations. Current federal regulations restrict activities during certain times of the year on significant portions of QEP Energy leasehold in the Northern Region due to wildlife activity and/or habitat. QEP Energy has worked with federal and state officials in Wyoming to obtain authorization for limited winter-drilling activities on the Pinedale Anticline and has developed measures, such as drilling multiple wells from a single pad location, to minimize the impact of its activities on wildlife and wildlife habitat in its operations on federal lands. Various wildlife species inhabit QEP Energy's leaseholds at Pinedale and in other areas. The presence of wildlife or plants, including species that are protected under the federal Endangered Species Act, could limit access to leases held by QEP Energy on public and other lands. Many of QEP's operations are subject to the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and are therefore evaluated under NEPA for their direct, indirect and cumulative environmental impacts. This is done in Environmental Assessments or Environmental Impact Statements prepared for a lead agency under Council on Environmental Quality and other agency regulations, usually for the BLM in the areas where QEP operates currently. In September 2008, the BLM issued a Record of Decision (ROD) on the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement (FSEIS) for long-term development of gas resources in the Pinedale Anticline Project Area (PAPA). Under the ROD, QEP Energy is allowed to drill and complete wells year-round in one of five Concentrated Development Areas 22defined in the PAPA. The ROD contains additional requirements and restrictions on development of the PAPA to which QEP Energy is subject.New federal Clean Air Act regulations at 40 CFR Part 63, Subpart OOOO impose additional air quality controls and requirements upon QEP Energy’s and QEP Field Services’ operations, and are undergoing further reconsideration by EPA. Additionally, many states are adopting more stringent air permitting and other air quality control regulations specific to oil and gas exploration, production, gathering and processing that go beyond the requirements of federal regulations.Several of QEP Field Services' transportation facilities are subject to FERC jurisdiction, and as such, are subject to specific regulations regarding interstate transmission facilities and activities, including but not limited to rates charged for transmission, open access/non-discrimination rules, and public daily capacity and flow reporting requirements. Additionally, FERC has jurisdiction over the operation of QEP Marketing's Clear Creek storage facility by virtue of the facility's connection to interstate pipelines (also subject to FERC jurisdiction) at both its inlet and outlet. Clear Creek is subject to specific FERC regulations governing interstate transmission facilities and activities, including but not limited to rates charged for transmission, open access/non-discrimination, and public disclosure via an electronic bulletin board of daily capacity and flows.Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act exempts gathering activities from regulation or jurisdiction by the FERC. QEP owns, or holds interests in, a number of pipelines that it believes meet the tests FERC has used to determine a pipeline system's status as a non-jurisdictional gatherer. There is, however, no bright-line test for determining jurisdictional status of QEP Field Services' gathering systems, so the distinction between non-jurisdictional gathering and FERC-regulated transmission pipelines may from time-to-time be the subject of disputes and litigation. QEP Field Services therefore cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gathering systems will remain unchanged. QEP's gas gathering systems are not currently subject to state utility regulations. The FERC has jurisdiction under the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to impose rules and regulations applicable to all natural gas market participants to ensure market transparency. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. The U.S. President's Fiscal Year 2014 Budget Proposal includes provisions that, if enacted into law, would eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas wells, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development and increase the cost of exploration and development of oil and gas resources. Environmental laws are complex and potentially burdensome for QEP's operations. QEP must comply with numerous and complex federal, state and tribal environmental regulations governing activities on federal, state and tribal lands, notably including the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the SDWA, OPA, CERCLA, RCRA, NEPA, the Endangered Species Act, the National Historic Preservation Act and similar state laws and tribal codes. Federal, state and tribal regulatory agencies frequently impose conditions on the Company's activities under these laws. These restrictions have become more stringent over time and can limit or prevent exploration and production on significant portions of the Company's leasehold. These laws also allow certain environmental groups to oppose drilling on some of QEP's federal and state leases. These groups sometimes sue federal and state regulatory agencies and/or the Company under these laws for alleged procedural violations in an attempt to stop, limit or delay oil and gas development on public and other lands. QEP may not be able to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to continue and expand its operations. Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. It may be costly and time consuming to comply with requirements imposed by these authorities and compliance may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of the Company's exploration and production and midstream field services operations. For example, QEP's drilling operations on tribal lands within the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Vermillion Basin in Wyoming continue to be delayed due to substantial backlog of permit applications. Further, the public may comment on and otherwise seek to influence the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, necessary permits may not be issued, or if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict QEP's ability to conduct its operations or to do so profitably.Federal and state hydraulic fracturing legislation or regulatory initiatives could increase QEP's costs and restrict its access to oil and gas reserves. Currently, all well construction activities, including hydraulic fracture stimulation, are regulated by state agencies that review and approve all aspects of oil and gas well design and operation. The EPA recently asserted federal 23regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel under the federal SDWA and has begun the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. The EPA appears to be considering its existing regulatory authorities for possible avenues to further regulate hydraulic fracturing fluids and/or the components of those fluids. Additionally, the Bureau of Land Management proposed in May 2012, new regulations regarding chemical disclosure requirements and other regulations specific to well stimulation activities, including hydraulic fracturing, on federal and tribal lands and proposed further revision to those regulations in May 2013. Legislation has also been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process, notwithstanding the proposed and ongoing rulemaking proceedings noted above. At the state level, some states have adopted and other states are considering adopting regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state or local regulations, restrictions or moratoria are adopted in areas where QEP operates, QEP could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling or stimulating wells in some areas. QEP's ability to produce oil and gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired if it is unable to acquire adequate supplies of water for its drilling and completion operations or is unable to dispose of or recycle the water or other waste at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules. The hydraulic fracture stimulation process on which QEP depends to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. The availability of disposal wells with sufficient capacity to receive all of the water produced from QEP’s wells may affect QEP’s production. QEP's inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in its operations, could adversely impact its operations. As noted above, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on QEP's ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste, including, but not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of gas. Compliance with environmental regulations and permit requirements governing the withdrawal, storage and use of surface water or groundwater necessary for hydraulic fracturing of wells may increase QEP's operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of its operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted. The adoption of greenhouse gas (GHG) emission or other environmental legislation could result in increased operating costs, delays in obtaining air pollution permits for new or modified facilities, and reduced demand for the gas, oil and NGL that QEP produces. Federal and state courts and administrative agencies are considering the scope and scale of climate-change regulation under various laws pertaining to the environment, energy use and development. Federal, state and local governments may also pass laws mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and gas. QEP's ability to access and develop new oil and gas reserves may be restricted by climate-change regulation, including GHG reporting and regulation. Legislative bills have been proposed in Congress that would regulate GHG emissions through a cap-and-trade system under which emitters would be required to buy allowances for offsets of emissions of GHG. The EPA has adopted final regulations for the measurement and reporting of GHG emitted from certain large facilities. Additionally, the EPA and authorized states have begun the permitting of major sources of GHG under the Clean Air Act pursuant to the EPA's GHG Tailoring Rule whereby new and existing sources of GHG emitting above major source thresholds are required to obtain major source permits. In addition, several of the states in which QEP operates are considering various GHG registration and reduction programs, including methane leak detection monitoring and repair requirements specific to upstream and midstream oil and gas operations. While additional climate-change regulation is possible at the federal level, it is too early to predict how such regulation would affect QEP's business, operations or financial results. It is uncertain whether QEP's operations and properties, located in the Northern and Southern Regions of the United States, are exposed to possible physical risks, such as severe weather patterns, due to climate change that may or may not be the result of anthropogenic emissions of GHG. Management does not, however, believe such physical risks are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for swap transactions could have an adverse impact on QEP's ability to mitigate risks associated with its business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), enacted in July 2010, provides for federal oversight of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), adopt rules and regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act and further defining certain terms used in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the CFTC and the prudential banking regulators to establish margin requirements for certain uncleared swaps. Although there is an exception from swap clearing and trade execution requirements for commercial end-users that meet certain conditions (the End-User Exception), certain market participants, including most if not all of QEP’s counterparties, will also be required to clear many of their swap transactions with entities that do not satisfy the End-User Exception and will have to transact many of their swaps on swap execution facilities or designated contract markets, rather than over-the-counter on a bilateral basis. These requirements may increase the cost to QEP’s counterparties of hedging the swap positions they enter into with us, and thus may increase the cost to 24QEP of entering into hedges. The changes in the regulation of swaps may result in certain market participants deciding to curtail or cease their derivatives activities. While many regulations have been promulgated and are already in effect, the rulemaking and implementation process is ongoing, and the ultimate effect of the adopted rules and regulations and any future rules and regulations on QEP’s business remains uncertain. QEP qualifies as a "non-financial entity" for purposes of the End-User Exception and will seek to satisfy the other requirements of the End-User Exception on an ongoing basis. As a result, QEP does not expect its hedging activity to be subject to mandatory clearing. A rule adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act imposing position limits in respect of transactions involving certain commodities, including oil and gas, was vacated and remanded to the CFTC for further proceedings by order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on September 28, 2012. The CFTC appealed this decision and on November 5, 2013, filed a consensual motion to dismiss its appeal. The same day, the CFTC proposed a new position limits rule which would limit trading in certain oil and gas related derivative contracts. Comments on the proposed rule are due February 10, 2014. QEP cannot predict whether or when the proposed rule will be adopted or the effect of the proposed rule on QEP’s business. The Dodd-Frank Act and the rules promulgated thereunder could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks QEP encounters, reduce QEP’s ability to monetize or restructure QEP’s existing derivative contracts, increase the administrative burden and regulatory risk associated with entering into certain derivative contracts, and increase QEP’s exposure to less credit-worthy counterparties. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity contracts related to oil and gas. QEP revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on QEP’s business, financial condition and results of operations. QEP relies on highly skilled personnel and, if QEP is unable to retain or motivate key personnel, hire qualified personnel, or transfer knowledge from retiring personnel, QEP’s operations may be negatively impacted. QEP’s performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. QEP’s future success depends on its continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of its organization. Competition in the oil and gas industry for qualified employees is intense. QEP’s continued ability to compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees. QEP does not have employment agreements with or maintain key-man insurance for its key management personnel. The loss of services of one or more of its key management personnel could have a negative impact on QEP’s financial condition and results of operations. In certain areas of QEP’s business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of service. As these employees retire, QEP may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. QEP’s efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become unavailable to QEP and could negatively impact QEP’s business.General economic and other conditions impact QEP's results. QEP's results may also be negatively affected by: changes in global economic conditions; availability and economic viability of oil and gas properties for sale or exploration; rate of inflation and interest rates; assumptions used in business combinations; weather and natural disasters; changes in customers' credit ratings; competition from other forms of energy, other pipelines and storage facilities; effects of accounting policies issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and terrorist attacks or acts of war. The Company's pension plans are currently underfunded and may require large contributions, which may divert funds from other uses. QEP has a closed defined benefit pension plan that covers 128, or 13%, of QEP's active employees and 86 participants that are retired, terminated and vested, or suspended. Over time, periods of declines in interest rates and pension asset values may result in a reduction in the funded status of the Company's pension plans. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, QEP's pension plans were underfunded by $46.3 million and $74.4 million, respectively. The underfunded status of QEP's pension plans may require that the Company make large contributions to such plans. QEP made cash contributions of $11.5 million and $6.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, to its defined benefit pension plans and expects to make contributions of approximately $13.8 million to its pension plans in 2014. QEP cannot, however, predict whether changing economic conditions, the future performance of assets in the plans or other factors will require the Company to make contributions in excess of its current expectations, diverting funds QEP would otherwise apply to other uses.25A failure in QEP’s information technology infrastructure or applications could negatively affect QEP’s business.QEP is planning to have a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system to further enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of its business operations in 2014. Implementing a new ERP system is costly and involves risks inherent in the conversion to a new computer system, including loss of information, disruption to QEP’s normal operations, changes in accounting procedures and internal control over financial reporting, as well as problems achieving accuracy in the conversion of electronic data. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could result in increased costs and the diversion of management’s and employees’ attention and resources and could materially adversely affect QEP’s operating results, internal controls over financial reporting and ability to manage its business effectively. While the ERP system is intended to further improve and enhance QEP’s information systems, large scale implementation of a new information system exposes QEP to the risks of starting up the new system and integrating that system with QEP’s existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of QEP’s financial reporting, which could lead to a failure to make required filings under the federal securities laws on a timely basis.QEP is subject to cyber security risks. A cyber incident could occur and result in information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial loss. The oil and gas industry has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies to conduct certain exploration, development, production, and processing activities. For example, QEP depends on digital technologies to interpret seismic data, manage drilling rigs, production equipment and gathering and processing systems, conduct reservoir modeling and reserves estimation, and process and record financial and operating data. Pipelines, refineries, power stations and distribution points for both fuels and electricity are becoming more interconnected by computer systems. At the same time, cyber incidents, including deliberate attacks or unintentional events, have increased. QEP's technologies, systems, networks, and those of its vendors, suppliers and other business partners may become the target of cyber attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of proprietary and other information, or other disruption of its business operations. In addition, certain cyber incidents, such as surveillance, may remain undetected for an extended period. QEP's systems and insurance coverage for protecting against cyber security risks may not be sufficient. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.