Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company and its subsidiary, American River Bank, conduct business in an environment that includes certain risks described below which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition, future prospects and stock price. You are also referred to the matters described under the heading "Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," in Part I, Item 1 and Part II, Item 7 of this report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding factors that may affect the Company's business. o American River Bankshares' business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect its financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Company's net interest income. It is expected that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We cannot assure you that we can minimize the Company's interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company's net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume and overall profitability. o Governmental monetary policies and intervention to stabilize the U.S. financial system affect American River Bankshares' business and are beyond the control of the Company. The business of banking is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal government and its agencies. Such policies are beyond the control of the Company. The Company is particularly affected by the policies established by the Board of Governors in relation to the supply of money and credit in the United States. The instruments of monetary policy available to the Board of Governors can be used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, and this can and does have a material effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. Recent legislation including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA"), signed into law by President Bush on October 3, 2008, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA"), signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009, each include programs that are intended to help stabilize the U.S. financial system. However, it is uncertain whether such legislation will sufficiently resolve the volatility of capital and credit markets or improve capital and liquidity problems confronting the financial system. The failure of the EESA or ARRA to mitigate or eliminate such volatility and problems affecting the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could limit the Company's access to capital or sources of liquidity in amounts and at times necessary to conduct operations in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements which could have a material adverse affect on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, future prospects, and stock price. o American River Bankshares' subsidiary, American River Bank, faces strong competition from banks, financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services, which can hurt American River Bankshares' business. Increased competition in the market of the Company's subsidiary, American River Bank, may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, it may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the banking services that are offered by American River Bank in its service area. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, American River Bank's competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject 19 to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If American River Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, it may be unable to continue its loan growth and level of deposits, which may adversely affect its and the Company's results of operations, financial condition and future prospects. o Worsening economic conditions could adversely affect American River Bankshares' business. The economic conditions in the United States, California and in the Company's operating markets continue to deteriorate. Unemployment nationwide and in California has increased significantly recently and is anticipated to increase for the foreseeable future. Availability of credit and consumer spending, real estate values, and consumer confidence have declined markedly. The volatility of the capital markets and the credit, capital and liquidity problems confronting the U.S. financial system have not been resolved despite massive government expenditures and legislative efforts to stabilize the U.S. financial system. There is no assurance that such conditions will improve or be resolved in the foreseeable future. The Company's subsidiary, American River Bank, conducts banking operations principally in Northern California. As a result, the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in Northern California. The Company's business results are dependent in large part upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in Northern California, and adverse economic conditions could have material adverse effects upon the Company. The State of California is currently experiencing significant budgetary and fiscal difficulties. The Company can provide no assurance that conditions in the United States and California economies will not further deteriorate or that such deterioration will not materially and adversely affect the Company. A further deterioration in economic conditions locally, regionally or nationally, could result in a further economic downturn in Northern California and prolong the following consequences, any of which could further adversely affect the Company's business: o loan delinquencies and defaults may increase; o problem assets and foreclosures may increase; o demand for the Company's products and services may decline; o low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; o collateral for loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral as sources of repayment of existing loans; and o volatile securities market conditions could adversely affect valuations of investment portfolio assets. o American River Bankshares has a concentration risk in real estate related loans. At December 31, 2008, approximately 72.0% of the Company's loan and lease portfolio consisted of real estate related loans. Substantially all of the Company's real property collateral is located in its operating markets in Northern California. The continuing trend of deteriorating economic conditions in California and in the Company's operating markets has contributed to an overall decline in real estate values. A continuing substantial decline in real estate values in the Company's primary market areas could occur as a result of worsening economic conditions, or other events including natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, and floods. Such a decline in values could have an adverse impact on the Company by limiting repayment of defaulted loans through sale of the real estate collateral and by likely increasing the number of defaulted loans to the extent that the financial condition of its borrowers is adversely affected by such a decline in values. At December 31, 2008, residential construction loans, including land acquisition and development, totaled $34.2 million or 8.2% of the Company's total loan portfolio. This was comprised of 37.0% owner-occupied and 63.0% speculative construction and land loans. Construction, land acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced on the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, speculative 20 construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or the guarantor to repay the principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan, as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. The adverse effects of the foregoing matters upon the Company's real estate portfolio could necessitate a material increase in the provision for loan and lease losses which could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, and future prospects. o American River Bankshares is subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect its business. The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by Federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of its operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance in all material respects with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of its business. Because the Company's business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that these laws, rules and regulations, or any other laws, rules or regulations, will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict the Company's ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by the Company, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, or future prospects. o American River Bank's allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, American River Bank maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, but its allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses. In addition, future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect American River Bank's and therefore the Company's operating results. American River Bank's allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in the local and California real estate market and interest rates that may be beyond American River Bank's control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review American River Bank's loans and leases and allowance for loan and lease losses. Although we believe that American River Bank's allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that American River Bank will not further increase the allowance for loan and lease losses or that regulatory agencies will not require an increase to this allowance including as a result of the effects of continued deterioration of economic conditions nationally and in the operating markets in which American River Bank conducts business. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect the Company's earnings. o American River Bankshares' and American River Bank's operations are dependent upon key personnel. The future prospects of the Company will be highly dependent on its directors, executive officers and other key personnel. The success of the Company will, to some extent, depend on the continued service of its directors and continued employment of the executive officers, in addition to the Company's ability to attract and retain experienced banking professionals to serve the Company and the Bank in other key positions. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on the Company and American River Bank. o Technology implementation problems or computer system failures could adversely affect American River Bankshares and American River Bank. The Company's future prospects will be highly dependent on the ability of American River Bank to implement changes in technology that affect the delivery of banking services such as the increased demand for computer access to 21 bank accounts and the availability to perform banking transactions electronically. The Bank's ability to compete will depend upon it ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet such demands. In addition, the business and operations of the Company and the Bank will be susceptible to adverse effects from computer failures, communication and energy disruption, and the activities including fraud of unethical individuals with the technological ability to cause disruptions or failures of the Bank's data processing system. o Information security breach or other technology difficulties could adversely affect American River Bankshares and American River Bank. The Company and the Bank cannot be certain that implementation of safeguards will eliminate the risk of vulnerability to technological difficulties or failures or ensure the absence of a breach of information security. The Bank will rely on the services of various vendors who provide data processing and communication services to the banking industry. Nonetheless, if information security is compromised or other technology difficulties or failures occur, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Company and Bank could be exposed to claims from its customers as a result. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, prospects, and stock price. o The Company's controls over financial reporting and its related governance procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company's internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. The Company maintains controls and procedures to mitigate risks such as processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud, and maintains insurance coverage for certain of these risks. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by the Company's internal controls or are not insured against or are in excess of the Company's insurance limits. Any failure or circumvention of the Company's controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. o The effects of legislation in response to current credit conditions may adversely affect the Company. Legislation that has or may be passed at the Federal level and/or by California in response to current conditions affecting credit markets could cause the Company to experience higher credit losses if such legislation reduces the amount that the Bank's borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Such legislation could also result in the imposition of limitations upon the Bank's ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or make foreclosure less economically feasible. Such events could result in increased loan losses and require a material increase in the allowance for loan losses and thereby adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. o The effects of changes to FDIC insurance coverage limits are uncertain and increased premiums may adversely affect the Company. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Current economic conditions have increased expectations for bank failures. In such event, the FDIC would take control of failed banks and guarantee payment of deposits up to applicable insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. Insurance premium assessments to insured financial institutions may increase as necessary to maintain adequate funding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which includes the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (the "TAGP"). The TAGP provides unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. All eligible institutions were covered under the TAGP for the first 22 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial period, participating institutions are assessed a 10 basis point surcharge on the additional insured deposits through the scheduled end of the program, currently December 31, 2009. American River Bank opted to participate in the TAGP. As a result, increased premiums will impact the Company's earnings. It is not clear how depositors will respond regarding the increase in insurance coverage. Despite the increase, some depositors may reduce the amount of deposits held at the Bank if concerns regarding bank failures persist, which could affect the level and composition of the Bank's deposit portfolio and thereby directly impact the Bank's funding costs and net interest margin. The Bank's funding costs may also be adversely affected in the event that the activities of the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Treasury to provide liquidity for the banking system and improvement in capital markets are curtailed or unsuccessful. Such events could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations and thereby adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. o The effects of terrorism and other events beyond the Company's control may adversely affect its results of operations. The terrorist actions on September 11, 2001 and thereafter, as well as, the current military conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq have had significant adverse effects upon the United States economy. Whether the terrorist activities in the future and the actions of the United States and its allies in combating terrorism on a worldwide basis will adversely impact the Company and the extent of such impact is uncertain. Similar events beyond the control of the Company including, but not limited to, financial and economic volatility and governmental actions in response, natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, fires, and similar adverse weather occurrences, disruption of power supplies and communications equipment such as telephones, cellular phones, computers, and other forms of electronic equipment or media, and widespread, adverse public health occurrences, may adversely affect the Company's future results of operations by, among other matters, disrupting the conduct of the Company's operations and those of its customers, which could result in a reduction in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company, increase non-performing loans and the amounts reserved for loan and lease losses, and thereby adversely affect the Company's results of operations, financial condition, future prospects, profitability and stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 