ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations We have a history of net losses and of being highly leveraged. We may incur additional losses in the future and our operating results have fluctuated and could continue to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. Also, we may need to obtain further financing or refinance current debt, which may or may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We sustained net losses of $69.3 million and $46.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We may incur additional losses in the future while we continue to expend funds to enhance our wireless network and grow our customer base. In addition, our future operating results and cash flows will be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to many factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include increased costs we may incur in connection with the further development, expansion and upgrade of our PCS network and fluctuations in the demands for our services. See "—We may incur substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our desired capital expenditures." We may not achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows. To the extent our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate significantly, we may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations. Our inability to satisfy our obligations may result in our restructuring or bankruptcy. We are highly leveraged. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; and •potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could decrease our ability to compete in our industry; •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the senior secured notes and our other debt; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. Additionally, we may need additional borrowings to operate our business or we may have to refinance our current indebtedness at its final maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain needed financing or refinance current debt. The restrictive covenants in our indentures may limit our operating flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in defaults under our indentures even though we may be able to meet our debt service obligations. The indentures governing our senior secured notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions significantly limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, repay junior indebtedness, sell assets, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, engage in sale and leaseback transactions, create liens and engage in 26 certain types of mergers or acquisitions. Any future debt instruments may have similar or more restrictive covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, holders of our senior secured notes could declare a default under the terms of the relevant indenture even though we are able to meet debt service obligations and, because our indentures have cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could cause all of our debt to become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available, or that we would have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to repay any accelerated debt. Even if we could obtain additional financing, we cannot assure you that the terms would be favorable to us. If we seek to accelerate our subscriber growth, we will incur significant up-front subscriber acquisition expense, which initially will result in reduced levels of cash flows from operating activities as compared to our most recent prior periods. Increasingly we must attract a greater proportion of our new subscribers from our competitor's existing subscriber bases rather than first time purchasers—which often necessitates higher up-front subscriber acquisition expense. In addition, to the extent our subscriber growth includes a higher percentage of sub-prime credit subscribers, our churn and bad debt expense may increase, and also may impair our ability to maintain and increase our revenue and cause a deterioration in our operating margin. Moreover, despite incurring increased sales and marketing expense, we may not succeed in growing our subscriber base. We rely on independent third parties for a sizable percentage of our sales. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 65% of our gross subscriber additions originated from distribution channels operated by third parties (consisting of Sprint, national retailers, such as Walmart, Best Buy and RadioShack, and local third parties). For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 10% of our gross subscriber additions were generated by RadioShack, while another approximately 17% were generated by three independent local third parties, including approximately 12% from one independent local third party. Although we believe that utilizing these independent third parties is beneficial to us, it also presents a number of drawbacks, such as limited control. These independent third parties have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations. Although we can exercise limited control over the local third parties through our distribution agreements, we have much less control over national retailers as their agreements are with Sprint. To the extent that these third parties do not perform well, experience financial difficulty, reduce their distribution points or emphasize our competitor products and services over Sprint PCS products and services, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We depend on roaming revenue for a substantial portion of our total revenue. Roaming revenue accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. The majority of our roaming revenue comes from Sprint PCS when Sprint PCS subscribers based outside our territory use our PCS network. Effective January 1, 2008 pursuant to our recent amendments with Sprint, we will no longer receive data roaming revenue from Sprint PCS when Sprint PCS subscribers based outside our territory use our PCS network for data services. We also receive roaming revenue when subscribers of Sprint roaming partners (such as Alltel) use our PCS network. At times, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, declines in our roaming traffic. The loss of this roaming traffic could adversely affect our results. 27 If we receive lower revenue or incur more fees than we anticipate for voice roaming with Sprint PCS, our results of operations may be negatively affected. Although we will no longer receive data roaming revenue from Sprint PCS or pay data roaming expense to Sprint PCS effective January 1, 2008, voice roaming revenue and expense remain important components of our overall revenue stream and operating expense, respectively. Since the ratio of inbound to outbound voice roaming with Sprint PCS fluctuates from period to period and year to year, the margin we earn from the difference between voice roaming revenue and voice roaming expense is difficult to predict. As our subscriber base grows, we expect to incur more fees for voice roaming. Similarly, if Sprint's CDMA subscriber base fails to grow or declines, we would expect to receive lower revenue for voice roaming. Additionally, Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory may spend more time outside our territory—resulting in us incurring more fees for voice roaming—and wireless subscribers from outside our territory may spend less time in our territory or may use our services less—resulting in us receiving lower revenue for voice roaming. We have and may continue to experience a high rate of subscriber turnover, which may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. Due to significant competition in the industry and weakening economic conditions, among other things, our customer turnover has been and may continue to be higher than our historical rate or projections. A high rate of customer turnover adversely affects our competitive position, liquidity and results of operations, especially because we subsidize a significant portion of the costs of initial purchases of handsets by new customers. Factors that have and may contribute to higher churn include inability or unwillingness of customers to pay resulting in involuntary deactivations, customer mix and credit class, and, in particular, sub-prime credit class customers, customer credit terms, deposit requirements for sub-prime customers, number of customers receiving services under contracts with terms of a year or greater, attractiveness of competitors' products, services and pricing, network coverage, call quality and related performance relative to competitors, customer service, and other competitive factors. We have experienced an increase in our bad debt expense that may continue to have an adverse effect on our results and operations. Our bad debt expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $19.0 million, compared with $10.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe that this increase in bad debt expense is due to higher average write-offs per subscriber, lower recoveries as a percentage of write-offs, and an overall deterioration of our customer accounts receivable aging, reflecting a higher average number of sub-prime credit subscribers in 2007 compared to 2006. If we, together with Sprint, are unable to successfully manage the credit risk mix of our gross additions or manage our existing subscriber base accounts receivable collections, our bad debt expense, results of operations and liquidity will be adversely affected. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless towers or are unable to renew expiring leases for wireless towers on favorable terms or at all, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. All of our base stations are installed on facilities that we lease from third parties pursuant to master agreements. The majority of our leased tower sites are leased from a few tower companies; and as of December 31, 2007, approximately 24% of our tower sites were leased from one tower company. If a master agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support the use of its tower sites by us, we would have to find new sites or may be required to rebuild the affected portion of our PCS network. In addition, the concentration of our tower leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to renew our expiring leases with these tower 28 companies either on favorable terms or at all. If any of the tower leasing companies with whom we do business should experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use our towers could be adversely affected. That, in turn, would adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition if a material number of towers were involved. We depend on other telecommunications companies for some services that, if delayed or interrupted, could delay our expected increases in subscribers and revenue. We depend on other telecommunications companies to provide facilities and transport to interconnect our PCS network and to connect our PCS network with the landline telephone systems. Without these services, we could not offer Sprint PCS services to our subscribers in some areas. From time to time, we have experienced delays in obtaining facilities and transport from some of these companies, and in obtaining local telephone numbers for use by our subscribers, which are sometimes in short supply, and we may continue to experience delays and interruptions in our network operations and our business may suffer. Delays or interruptions could also result in a breach of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, subjecting these agreements to potential termination by Sprint PCS. We rely exclusively on Nortel Networks for our network equipment. This equipment is generally not interchangeable or interoperable with network equipment from other providers and we would be materially adversely affected if we could not obtain additional network equipment or support from Nortel Networks timely or at all and, in any event, cost effectively. Our PCS network equipment is supplied solely by Nortel Networks. If additional equipment or support is needed for expansion or repair of our network, it generally must come from Nortel Networks in order to be compatible with our existing network equipment. If Nortel Networks were to cease or delay supplying equipment, we would be prevented or delayed in expanding or repairing our network. Any inability to expand or repair our network could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, Nortel Networks potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to its equipment. Additionally, if Nortel Networks has a significant disruption in its business or fails, our business and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. Alternative technologies, including WiMax, and current uncertainties in the wireless and overall communications market may make the technology we use obsolete or reduce demand for PCS products and services. The wireless telecommunications industry continues to experience significant and rapid technological change, as evidenced by the pace of upgrades in existing digital wireless systems, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products, deployment of unlicensed spectrum devices and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. We rely on Sprint to keep pace with these technological changes. If Sprint is unable to keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the wireless communications market, the technology used in our PCS network or our business strategy may become obsolete. If we fail to implement significant technological changes or keep pace with Sprint's network technology, we may lose subscribers and/or roaming revenue and our ability to maintain and increase revenue will be impaired. The convergence of wireless, landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access is also creating uncertainties in the overall communications market. The proliferation of Wi-Fi and the potential application of Worldwide Inter-Operability for Microwave Access, or WiMax, create additional uncertainty about how customers will communicate wirelessly in the future. Future wireless applications on current or future portions of the wireless spectrum may also reduce demand for the wireless products and services we offer for Sprint. In addition, Sprint has interests in developing advanced 29 technologies and delivery channels, such as its WiMax initiative, that may have a material adverse effect on our business. We will incur substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our desired capital expenditures. We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain and upgrade our PCS network to remain technologically current and competitive and to enhance the efficiency of our sales operations, including by opening new retail stores. We anticipate total capital expenditures for 2008 will be between $60.0 million and $65.0 million. Although we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and operating cash flow will be sufficient to operate our business and fund our capital needs for at least the next twelve months, if it is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditures for any reason, we may not be able to obtain additional funds and we may be forced to reduce our level of capital spending. The terms of the indentures governing our senior secured notes limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we do not have sufficient funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not retain our key executive officers, our business may suffer. Our future success depends in large part on the continued employment of our key employees. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and the limited availability of qualified individuals could become an issue of increasing concern in the future. Moreover, the uncertainly surrounding our relationship with Sprint, including Sprint's acquisition of all but three PCS Affiliates of Sprint (including us), makes retention more difficult and makes it more expensive to fill vacancies. Our financial condition depends upon qualified personnel successfully implementing our business plan. If we lose any of our key employees, our business could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding our financial reports or may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with the reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In doing so, we may identify significant deficiencies or errors that are not currently known to us. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness" or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue a favorable assessment if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could negatively impact the value of our securities and could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future. 30 Risks Related to Our Relationship with Sprint PCS If Sprint does not succeed, our business may not succeed. As a PCS Affiliate of Sprint, we are dependent upon Sprint for many aspects of our business, including the brand name under which we operate, the spectrum that we use and the nationwide PCS network outside of our territory. From the subscribers' point of view, we are "Sprint" in our markets and they use our PCS network and the rest of the Sprint PCS network as a unified network. Sprint's performance and brand reputation nationwide—over which we have no control—impacts our performance. If Sprint has a significant disruption to its business plan or PCS network, fails to operate its business in an efficient manner or suffers a weakening of its brand name, our business and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. If Sprint should have significant financial problems, including bankruptcy, our business would suffer material adverse consequences, which could include termination or revision of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. We depend on Sprint to offer competitive products and services. We are required to offer Sprint products and services designated for regional or national offerings. We are reliant upon Sprint to determine what products and services to offer to remain competitive in the wireless marketplace. We are also dependent upon Sprint to remain technologically competitive. We are required to offer PCS subscriber pricing plans from Sprint PCS designated for regional or national offerings, such as "Power Pack" plans. Sprint PCS prices subscriber pricing plans based on its own objectives and could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business, which would result in decreased revenue and/or increased expense. Sprint may attempt to regain market share in the wireless business by competing on price, which decreases our revenue. Our dependence on Sprint PCS to develop competitive products and services and the requirement that we obtain Sprint PCS' consent to sell non-Sprint approved equipment limits our ability to keep pace with our competitors on the introduction of new products, services and equipment. All suppliers of handsets used in our business license intellectual property from Qualcomm, some of which has been found to infringe on certain patents owned by Broadcom Corporation. If Qualcomm does not resolve this issue, we may be unable to use handsets that are subject to these claims, including handsets that utilize Qualcomm's Q-Chat® technology. Some of our competitors are larger than us, possess greater resources and more extensive coverage areas, and may market other services, such as landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access, along with their wireless communications services. The wireless spectrum that we use is licensed to Sprint, not us. Sprint PCS, not us, holds the licenses necessary to provide wireless services in our territory. We do not have any spectrum licenses that are used in our business. The FCC requires that licensees like Sprint PCS maintain control of their licensed systems and not delegate control to third-party operators or managers without the FCC's consent. If Sprint PCS does not maintain control over its licensed spectrum, our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS may be terminated which will negatively affect our operating results. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS reflect an arrangement that the parties believe meets the FCC requirements for licensee control of licensed spectrum. However, if the FCC were to determine that any of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS need to be modified to increase the level of licensee control, we have agreed with Sprint PCS to use our best efforts to modify the agreements to comply with applicable law. If we cannot agree with Sprint PCS to modify the agreements, those agreements may be terminated. If the agreements are terminated, we would no longer be a part of the Sprint PCS network and we would not be able to conduct our business. If Sprint PCS loses its licenses in our territory, we would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses. 31 We rely on Sprint to provide wireless service outside of our territory. We rely on Sprint to provide nationwide service to the subscribers based in our territory through its own PCS network and through roaming arrangements with third parties that it controls. If Sprint loses its roaming arrangements with third parties, subscribers based in our territory would not have coverage outside of the Sprint PCS network. If Sprint PCS loses its wireless licenses outside our territory, Sprint PCS or the applicable PCS Affiliate of Sprint would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses and our ability to offer nationwide calling plans would be diminished and potentially more costly. We rely on Sprint's internal support systems. We rely on Sprint PCS's internal support systems, including customer care, billing and back office support. In addition, we rely on Sprint for the proper application of credit policies, the processing and collection of receivables and bad debt collection. Pursuant to our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, the fees we pay for these services are set through 2010. Accordingly, we will not benefit if Sprint is able to manage these costs. Problems with Sprint PCS' internal support systems could cause: •delays or problems in our operations or services; •delays or difficulty in gaining access to subscriber and financial information; •a loss of subscribers; and •an increase in bad debt expense. Sprint PCS has the right to terminate any service provided under our affiliation agreements upon nine months' prior written notice; provided, however, that if we desire to continue receiving such service, Sprint PCS has agreed that it will assist us in developing that function internally or locating a third-party vendor that will provide that service. Although Sprint PCS has agreed that if it terminates the services, it will reimburse us for expenses we incur in transitioning to any service internally or to a third party, if Sprint PCS terminates a service for which we have not developed or are unable to develop a cost-effective alternative, our operating costs may increase beyond our expectations and our operations may be interrupted or restricted. We do not currently have a contingency plan if Sprint PCS terminates a service we currently receive from it or if we cannot reach agreement with Sprint on new rates. As a result of the merger between Sprint and Nextel, the combined company is in the process of integrating the internal support systems of Sprint and Nextel, which includes the migration of certain subscribers, including subscribers in our territory, onto different systems. For example, Sprint is implementing a common platform for customer care and billing and subscribers in our territory are expected to be migrated to the new platform as early as March of 2008. Customer migrations or systems conversions, or any delay or problems associated with these changes, may result in difficulty in gaining access to subscriber and financial information, increased customer dissatisfaction leading to increased churn and fewer gross additions; each of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We rely upon the accuracy of Sprint's financial reporting. The data provided by Sprint related to the back-office functions it performs for us is the primary source for our service, roaming and reseller revenues, and for a significant portion of our cost of service and roaming, and selling and marketing expense included in our statement of operations. We use this data to record our financial results and prepare our financial statements. If Sprint fails to deliver timely and accurate information, this may lead us to make adverse decisions and inaccurate assumptions for future business plans and could also negatively affect our cash flows as Sprint collects our receivables and remits a net amount to us that is based on the financial information it provides. In addition, delays and inaccuracies which are material could adversely affect the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and if we later identify material errors in that data provided to us, 32 we may be required to restate our financial statements. If that occurs to us or any other PCS Affiliate of Sprint, investors and securities analysts may lose confidence in us and Sprint. The Sprint PCS affiliate program has been reduced to a few affiliates and Sprint's ongoing commitment to the program is unknown. Sprint's 2005 merger with Nextel and the litigation involving Sprint and the PCS Affiliates that followed resulted, directly or indirectly, in Sprint's acquisition of nearly all of the PCS Affiliates of Sprint. We, along with two significantly smaller PCS Affiliates of Sprint, are the only remaining members of the Sprint affiliation program. One of the other remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint, Shenandoah Telecommunications Company ("Shentel"), amended its affiliation agreements with Sprint in March 2007 to, among other things, simplify the methods used to settle revenue and expense between it and Sprint. As discussed in "Item 1 Business—Recent Developments," we recently amended our affiliation agreements with Sprint as well. As a result of Sprint's acquisitions of PCS Affiliates and Shentel's and our revised affiliate relationships, Sprint's ongoing commitment to the affiliate program as historically structured is unknown. We and Sprint may agree to further modify our affiliate relationship in ways that could further alter our current business plan and projections. Sprint may not devote as much of its personnel and resources to us and the other two remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness of our affiliation agreements with Sprint. The terms of our relationship with Sprint are set forth in our affiliation agreements with it. Our affiliation agreements require that we meet and maintain various requirements with respect to network coverage and technical and customer service requirements. Failure to meet and maintain these requirements could constitute a material breach of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. If these agreements were to be terminated or otherwise rendered ineffective, or if Sprint fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, our ability to conduct business would be severely impacted. Our affiliation agreements provide that, upon the occurrence of an event of termination caused by our breach of such agreements, Sprint PCS has the right to, among other things, purchase our operating assets without stockholder approval and for a price equal to 72% of our "entire business value," which is our appraised value determined using certain principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. See "—Affiliation Agreements with Sprint PCS" for a description of how we calculate our entire business value. Sprint may alter its requirements in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS that require us to incur increased capital expenditures and other expenses. Pursuant to our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, we are required to meet and maintain various requirements with respect to network coverage and technical and customer service requirements. Subject to certain limitations set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, Sprint PCS may alter its network and technical requirements or request that we build-out additional areas within our territory, which could result in us incurring substantial additional costs to remain in compliance with such requirements. If we do not have the necessary funds, we may seek to incur additional indebtedness. Our existing substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain any additional financing that we may seek. Moreover, if Sprint determines that we are not in compliance with applicable requirements, our ability to obtain additional financing could be negatively impacted. If we cannot obtain necessary additional financing, we may be unable to remedy such noncompliance, thereby resulting in a material breach of our affiliation agreements which could lead to their termination by Sprint PCS. If Sprint PCS terminates or fails to renew our affiliation agreements or fails to perform its obligations under those agreements, our ability to conduct business would be severely restricted. 33 Sprint has certain rights over us with respect to certain corporate transactions. Sprint PCS has the right to withhold its consent to any transaction in which the "ultimate parent" of any of our operating subsidiaries that is the party to the affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, changes. We must obtain the consent of Sprint PCS prior to any assignment by us of our affiliation agreements with it. Sprint PCS also has a right of first refusal if we decide to sell our operating assets to a third party. We are also subject to a number of restrictions on the transfer of our business, including a prohibition on the sale of our operating assets to competitors of Sprint PCS. These restrictions and the other restrictions contained in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS restrict our ability to sell our business, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay for our business, and may reduce our "entire business value," which is our appraised value determined using principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. Parts of our territory have limited licensed spectrum, which may adversely affect the quality of our service. In the majority of our markets, Sprint PCS has licenses covering 20 MHz or 30 MHz of spectrum. However, Sprint PCS has licenses covering only 10 MHz in approximately 23% of our territory, which represent approximately 3.5 million in total population out of a total population of over 15.1 million residents in our territory. In the future, as our subscriber base increases in those areas, or as usage increases, this limited licensed spectrum may not be able to accommodate increases in call volume or changes or upgrades in technology and may lead to increased dropped calls and may limit our ability to offer enhanced services. We may also have to increase our capital expenditures and/or operating expense in an attempt to compensate for this lack of licensed spectrum. It is more difficult and expensive to deploy EV-DO Rev. A in these markets, and, as a result, we may not be able to remain technologically competitive in these markets. The merger between Sprint and Nextel and the final outcome of our litigation relating thereto may have an adverse effect on us in ways that would be beyond our control. We have been, and continue to be, engaged in litigation with Sprint regarding its merger with Nextel. Sprint's operation of the legacy Nextel business in our territory is subject to the Delaware Court of Chancery's August 2006 ruling and the protections for our benefit in the order of the Illinois Appellate Court "staying" the ruling of the Illinois Circuit Court pending resolution of the appeal. Although the Delaware ruling is final, the Illinois ruling is subject to Sprint's appeal. The Delaware ruling and the protections of the stay order do not protect us from all of the ways in which Sprint may operate the legacy Nextel business in a manner that would have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that Sprint desires to exploit limitations of the Delaware ruling, our business may be adversely affected. For example, the ruling provides that Sprint may engage in limited re-branding of the legacy Nextel stores in our service area. We do not know how or if Sprint will attempt to re-brand the legacy Nextel stores in our service area. Additionally, in light of certain representations that Sprint made to the Delaware court, the ruling does not impose additional restrictions on Sprint's use of our confidential information. It is difficult for us to monitor Sprint's compliance with its representations as to confidentiality. If we believe that Sprint is violating the Delaware ruling, we may need to enforce the ruling through contempt proceedings in Delaware. With respect to the Illinois ruling, oral arguments were held before the Illinois Appellate Court on February 14, 2008. We expect the Appellate Court to render its decision in 2008. We cannot predict the outcome of the appeal. If we do not prevail on appeal, Sprint may be permitted to operate the legacy Nextel business in our territory in a manner that has an adverse effect on our business and operations. If we do not prevail on appeal, our stock price may be adversely affected. On March 15, 2007, Shenandoah Telecommunications Company ("Shentel") announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, which is a PCS Affiliate of Sprint, entered into revised affiliation agreements with Sprint which settled all of its outstanding claims arising out of the Sprint Nextel merger and the subsequent acquisition by Sprint of Nextel Partners, Inc. We do not know whether it is possible for us 34 to reach agreement on mutually satisfactory terms for revised affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS that would settle our outstanding claims arising out of the Sprint Nextel merger, particularly in light of the rulings that we have already obtained. Moreover, as discussed in "Item 1 Business—Recent Developments" above, we recently amended certain of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. While the amendments resolve many of the ongoing operational disputes between us and Sprint—including disputes with respect to Sprint's proposed service bureau fees and reciprocal roaming rates, as well as disputed amounts for 3G data roaming expense settled between the parties in 2007—the amendments do not resolve our ongoing dispute with Sprint regarding the Sprint Nextel merger, including Sprint's currently pending appeal of the Illinois Circuit Court ruling. We believe that our stock price has been, and continues to be, affected by market speculation involving potential changes in our relationship with Sprint as a result of the Sprint-Nextel merger and the final outcome of our disputes with Sprint, including Sprint's currently pending appeal of the Illinois Circuit Court ruling. We believe that the market speculation has been further fueled by changes in the relationships between Sprint and other PCS Affiliates of Sprint, including Sprint's acquisition of seven other PCS Affiliates of Sprint since August 2005. Accordingly, the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Risks Related to the Wireless Telecommunications Industry The FCC may fail to renew the wireless licenses that we use, which would prevent us from providing wireless services. Wireless licenses, including the ones issued to Sprint that we use, are subject to renewal and revocation by the FCC. The FCC has adopted specific standards that apply to wireless personal communications services license renewals. Any failure to comply with these standards could result in the non-renewal of the licenses. Regulation by government agencies and taxing authorities may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. Our operations and those of Sprint PCS are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and those of Sprint PCS, thereby increasing our costs of doing business. For example, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could subject us to increased income, sales, gross receipts or other tax costs or require us to alter the structure of our current relationship with Sprint PCS. Concerns over health risks and safety posed by the use of wireless handsets may reduce consumer demand for our services. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may: •be linked to various health problems resulting from continued or excessive use, including cancer; •interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers; and •cause explosions if used while fueling an automobile. Widespread concerns over radio frequency emissions may expose us to potential litigation. To the extent we are named in any such litigation, we will be forced to defend ourselves. If we do not prevail in such litigation, or are forced to pay damages, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Such concerns may also discourage the use of wireless handsets or result in additional regulation imposing restrictions or increasing requirements on the location and operation of cell sites or the use or design of wireless handsets. Any resulting decrease in demand for these services or increase in the cost of complying with additional regulations could 35 impair our ability to profitably operate our business. Such concerns may result in the loss of subscribers, which may impair our ability to maintain and increase revenue and lower our operating margin. In addition, we may need to dedicate a larger portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to comply with such additional regulations. Due to safety concerns, some state and local legislatures have passed or are considering legislation restricting the use of wireless telephones while driving automobiles. Concerns over safety risks and the effect of future legislation, if adopted in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. In addition, it may discourage use of our wireless devices and decrease our revenue from subscribers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Further, litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Market saturation could limit or decrease our rate of new subscriber additions and increase costs to keep our current subscribers. Intense competition in the wireless telecommunications industry could cause prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline. If prices drop, our rate of net subscriber additions will take on greater significance in improving our financial condition and results of operations. However, as our and our competitors' penetration rates in our markets increase over time, our rate of adding net subscribers could decrease. If this decrease were to happen, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs through equipment upgrades and other retention costs to keep our current subscribers from switching to our competitors. Significant competition in the wireless telecommunications industry may result in our competitors offering new services or lower prices, which could prevent us from operating profitably and may cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. Competition has caused, and we anticipate that competition will continue to cause, the market prices for two-way wireless products and services to decline. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the wireless telecommunications industry. If prices for our services continue to decline, it could adversely affect our ability to increase revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. In addition, the viability of our business depends upon, among other things, our ability to compete with other wireless providers on reliability, quality of service, availability of voice and data features and customer care. Prepaid and unlimited minute plans, including those recently announced by Sprint and several other national wireless carriers, also continue to increase in popularity, offering consumers more alternatives and potentially putting more downward pressure on wireless service pricing as well as potentially increasing our expense of providing service. In addition, the pricing of our services may be affected by competition, including the entry of new service providers into our markets. Furthermore, there has been a recent trend in the wireless telecommunications industry toward consolidation of wireless service providers, which we expect to lead to larger competitors over time. We are a consumer business and a prolonged economic downturn in the United States involving significantly lowered consumer spending could negatively affect our results of operations. Our primary subscriber base is composed of individual consumers, and in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in the United States in which spending by individual consumers drops significantly, our current and potential subscribers, especially our sub-prime subscribers, may be unable or unwilling to purchase wireless services or pay their wireless bills and our business may be negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 