Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We and some of our current and former officers are the subject of securities class action lawsuits that could require us to pay substantial damages or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. In July and August 2007, two putative federal securities law class actions were filed in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut on behalf of persons who purchased our stock between February 9, 2005 and September 30, 2005. These substantially similar lawsuits were consolidated in October of 2007 and an Amended Consolidated Complaint was filed on January 22, 2008 that assert claims pursuant to Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 10(b) and 20(a) promulgated thereunder, against the Company, its current Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and its former President and Chief Executive Officer. Specifically, the Amended Consolidated Complaint alleges, among other things, that these statements were materially false and misleading because (1) they misrepresented the size of our online panel and (2) they failed to disclose that we were engaged in improper accounting practices. An unfavorable determination in the lawsuit could result in the payment by us of monetary damages which may not be covered by insurance. Further, the defense of such lawsuit, even if we are ultimately successful, will require us to incur significant costs and diversion of management time and focus all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully launch a Ciao comparison shopping business in the United States and the diversion of financial resources and management attention to this undertaking may cause our results of operations and our financial condition to suffer. In February 2008, we announced that we had launched the Ciao comparison shopping business in the United States. The expansion of the Ciao comparison shopping business into the United States will increase our operating costs and will involve many risks, including, but not limited to: • the diversion of management attention from the core Ciao comparison shopping business in Europe; • our ability to translate the technical and industry skills and knowledge gained in the European comparison shopping marketplace to the United States; • exposing our comparison shopping business to increased US-based competition; • our ability to develop a community of Ciao members in the United States of sufficient size to generate meaningful product review content; • our ability to develop economically feasible internet traffic to our US-based comparison shopping sites; and • our ability to attract and retain sufficiently skilled staff in the United States to build the US-based comparison shopping business. Should we fail to manage these issues properly, our overall business at our European-based comparison shopping business may be negatively affected and our US-based comparison shopping initiative may fail to meet expectations and our results of operations and our financial condition may suffer. 18 Table of Contents Our strategy to separate our Ciao Internet survey solutions and Ciao comparison shopping business into separate legal and operating entities may still have unforeseen consequences for the Ciao business as a whole and our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. In the second quarter of 2007, we completed the process of separating our Internet survey solutions and comparison shopping business operated through our Ciao GmbH (“Ciao”) subsidiary into separate legal and operational entities. This reorganization involved many complex issues including, but not limited to, the following: • division and apportionment of intellectual property, including trademarks and Internet domain names; • division and apportionment of the intertwined Ciao Internet panel member and Ciao shopping member databases; • division and apportionment of technology, including licensed and internally developed software, hardware and operating systems; • allocation of personnel to each entity; • division and apportionment of real estate; and • potential tax implications relating to the separation of the businesses. In executing the separation of our Internet survey solutions and comparison shopping business operated through Ciao, we faced complex commercial, legal, corporate and tax issues, which may result in unintended negative consequences with regard to our customer relationships, employee relationships, panelist relationships, comparison shopping member relationships and our domestic and international tax positions. Should we not be able to successfully manage any unforeseen consequences that may arise, either or both of our European-based businesses may be negatively affected and our results of operations and our financial condition may suffer. If we are unable to maintain the size or demographic composition of our Internet panels, our clients may reduce or stop using our products and services. The commercial viability of our marketing research data and our overall Internet survey solutions business is dependent on our ability to attract and maintain active panelists and ensure optimal panel composition to accommodate a broad variety of marketing research requests. There is currently no historical benchmark by which to predict the optimal size of research panels to ensure high response rates and maximum revenue generation per panelist. If we are unable to accurately determine or build optimal-sized panels, our current panelists may become overused and unresponsive to our requests to participate in surveys. If we fail to regenerate our panel with new and active panelists on a regular basis, the size and demographic diversity of our Internet panels may decrease and our clients may reduce or stop using our products and services, which may lead to a decline in our revenue. If the number of panelists participating in our Internet panels decreases, if we experience panel attrition rates in excess of our historical rates of 20% per year, or if the cost of acquiring new panelists becomes excessive or the demographic composition of our panel narrows, our ability to provide our clients with accurate and statistically relevant information could suffer. This risk is likely to increase as our clients’ needs expand, and as more demographically diverse surveys are requested by our clients. 19 Table of Contents If the rate at which our panelists respond to our surveys decreases, we may not be able to meet our clients’ needs. Our panelists participate in our surveys on a voluntary basis only, and there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so. Our ability to maintain adequate response rates may be harmed if: • our email-based survey invitations are not received by our panelists due to the use of spam-filtering and blocking software by individuals, corporations and Internet service providers; • our panelists become dissatisfied with the forms of participation incentives we offer; or • our panelists respond less frequently to our surveys, or stop responding altogether due to excessive requests for participation from us or other researchers. If we fail to maintain adequate response rates, we may be unable to meet current or future demand for our products and services and our revenue may decline. If the rate at which our panelists respond to our surveys decreases, we may be required to expend additional funds to retain our panelists or provide additional incentives to encourage panelist participation. In the past, the responsiveness of our panelists has been variable and a function of the length of the surveys to be completed and the incentives offered to our panelists in exchange for their participation. The incentives we offer panelists to participate in surveys generally consist of the opportunity to enter into sweepstakes and win prizes or direct cash incentives; however, the panels acquired as a result of our acquisitions of Zing Wireless, Inc. (“goZing”) and Ciao have been managed using a guaranteed, cash-based incentive system. We currently utilize a mix of both prize-based and direct cash incentives. If our response rates decline, we may be required to increase the amount of cash based incentive offers, or otherwise increase incentives or undertake more costly campaigns to retain our current panelists, our operating expenses may increase and our operating income may decline. If we were to lose, or if there were a material reduction in business from our largest clients, our net revenue might decline substantially. Our ten largest clients accounted for approximately 38% of our total net revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. In our reportable segments of North American Internet survey solutions, Ciao Internet survey solutions and Ciao comparison shopping we derived approximately 42%, 51% and 58% of net revenue from our ten largest clients in each respective segment in the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. Taylor Nelson Sofres, Plc (“TNS”), which has accounts with us through 22 separate affiliates, accounted for approximately 13% of our Ciao Internet survey solutions segment net revenues. Google, Inc. and eBay, Inc. accounted for approximately 27% and 16%, respectively, of our Ciao comparison shopping segment net revenues. In calculating the revenue received from a particular client, we have aggregated all revenue from companies we know to be under common control. If we lose business from any of our top clients, our revenue may decline substantially. A substantial portion of our comparison shopping portal traffic is derived through optimization of search engine results and changes in these algorithms may cause our comparison shopping revenue to decline. A substantial portion of our comparison shopping portal traffic is derived from search engines, which direct search engine users to our Ciao comparison shopping portals. Periodically, major search engines revise their algorithms and quality indices, and in such cases we may experience a substantial reduction in search engine generated comparison shopping Internet traffic, which we may not be able to rapidly replace, if at all. As our 20 Table of Contents revenue from our comparison shopping business is largely derived as a result of Internet traffic to our comparison shopping portals, a decline in such Internet traffic will adversely affect our revenue from our comparison shopping business. If members of the Ciao community cease to provide us with reviews, the number of consumers using our service and our revenues could decline. Our comparison shopping business contains a significant amount of user-generated content, primarily reviews of products, services and merchants. This content is created by members of our Ciao community, many of whom receive nominal payments from us for our use of this content. In addition, though we provide tools to allow the community to rate the helpfulness of reviews and discourage poor quality reviews, we do not approve, edit or modify any consumer-generated content on our service. Ciao members have, in the past, submitted profane or other undesirable content, which could offend our consumers or merchants. A small number of our overall registered members have created a significant portion of our review content. If Ciao members cease authoring reviews or if the quality of their reviews deteriorates, the number of consumers using our service could decline, which could result in a decrease in revenues, adversely impacting our results of operations. If we fail to grow the number of consumers and merchants that use our comparison shopping service, our financial results could suffer. Our relationships with consumers and merchants are mutually dependent. We believe consumers will not use our comparison shopping service unless we offer extensive product listings from merchants and that merchants will not use our service unless consumers actively use it to purchase products from them. It is difficult to predict the degree to which consumers and merchants will use our service in the future. Merchants who enter into contracts with us for our service, are not required to pay us any minimum amounts or to list a minimum number of products, and they may terminate their agreements with us at any time on short notice. Additionally, merchant attrition or reductions in merchant spending could reduce the comprehensiveness of the listings presented on our service, which could lead to fewer consumers using our service. The top relevant merchant listings that we display in our response to a consumer query in some product categories is selected based on the amount paid by the merchant to us. As a result, consumers may perceive our service to be less objective than those provided by other online shopping solutions. Consumers who dislike changes to our service may stop using it, and merchants who dislike the quality of lead referrals that we send to them may cease to use our service or reduce overall spending for our service. If we fail to achieve and maintain a large and active base of consumers and merchants using our service or if a large number of merchants were to significantly reduce the number of their products listed with us, the quality of the shopping experience we offer consumers may decline, leading to a reduction in the number of consumers using our service, and our revenues and financial results would decline. A substantial portion of our Internet survey solutions data comes from individuals who are not members of our panels, but respond to our Real-Time Sampling offers. Should the marketing research industry reject this capability, or if its effectiveness declines and costs increase we may have inadequate sample supply to meet current demand, and may be required to spend more money acquiring sample, and our margins may decline. A substantial portion of our Internet survey solutions data comes from individuals who are not members of our panels, but respond to our Real-Time Sampling offers. The proportion of our Internet survey solutions data obtained via Real-Time Sampling has been increasing since we began this initiative. If the marketing research industry rejects this capability, or if it demonstrates limited acceptance, or if the capability does not continue to 21 Table of Contents prove effective, we may not be able to meet current demand for Internet survey solutions data and our sales may suffer. In addition, we may be required to spend more money acquiring survey sample, and our margins may decline. We may not be able to successfully compete with other Internet survey solutions providers, marketing research firms and other potential competitors, which may cause us to lose sales or experience lower margins on sales. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. In North America we compete for clients with numerous Internet survey solution providers, such as Survey Sampling, Inc., Global Market Insite, Inc., e-Rewards, Inc., Lightspeed Online Research, Inc., OpenVenue, Decision Analyst, Luth Research, Inc., MyPoints, and Common Knowledge, as well as large marketing research companies, such as Taylor Nelson Sofres, Plc, The Kantar Group and Harris Interactive, Inc., which maintain their own panels of online respondents. In Europe we compete against Internet survey solutions providers such as Survey Sampling/Bloomerce, Novatris, Lightspeed Online Research, Inc., ToLuna Plc and Research Now Plc. We expect to face intense competition in the future from other marketing research data collection firms that develop Internet-based products and services. We also expect to face competition from other companies with access to large databases of individuals with whom they can communicate through the Internet, such as email service providers and Internet-based direct marketers, as well as companies that develop and maintain a large volume of Internet traffic on their websites, such as large Internet portals, networks and search engines. These companies may, either alone or in alliance with other firms, enter the Internet-based marketing research data collection market. In addition, such firms face low entry barriers to the sample-only segment of the Internet-based marketing research data collection market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to undertake more extensive sales and marketing campaigns offering their services, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and make more attractive offers to potential employees, strategic partners, panelists and customers than we can. In addition, these competitors and potential competitors may develop technologies that are superior to ours, or that achieve greater market acceptance than our own. If we do not successfully compete with these companies, we might experience a loss of market share and reduced revenue and profitability. We may not be able to successfully compete with other comparison shopping portals or other companies that offer alternatives to traditional online comparison shopping web sites and other potential competitors, which may cause us to lose sales or experience lower margins on sales. The business of providing comparison shopping services is highly competitive. Any service that helps consumers find, compare or buy products or services is a competitor to us. Our competitors may be categorized as focused comparison shopping websites, search engines and portals, online retailers, and other specialized shopping services which provide user generated reviews of consumer products, services and merchants. Focused comparison shopping websites. Several companies focus exclusively on providing comparison shopping services. In Europe our principal competitors in this group are: Yahoo Shopping (Kelkoo), Shopping.com, Shopzilla, Idealo, Billiger, Froogle, DooYoo, Pricerunner and other comparison shopping sites. In the United States our principal competitors in this group are: Yahoo Shopping, Pricegrabber, Shopping.com, Shopzilla and Nextag, and a variety of other smaller comparison shopping companies. If we are not able to successfully compete against these and other competitors, our revenues and financial results would suffer. Search engines and portals. Search engines and portals serve as origination websites for consumers to find products. Many have large audiences of visitors, consumers and merchants, established brand recognition, loyal 22 Table of Contents users, and significant financial resources and personnel at their disposal. We rely on search engines for a substantial portion of the consumers visiting our websites. Yahoo! provides a service similar to ours, and Google has developed a search engine for finding products for sale online. If these search engines were to change their algorithms or otherwise restrict the flow of consumers visiting our websites, our revenues and financial results would suffer. Online retailers. Online retailers serve as destination websites from which consumers directly buy products. They are skilled at building customer loyalty and generating repeat business. Consumers may bypass our service in favor of going straight to retailer websites. In addition, these online retailers may begin to aggregate product and merchant reviews and may therefore compete more vigorously with us for search engine generated traffic and become more attractive to consumers. This risk is compounded because several of these online retailers, such as Amazon.com and eBay, are also our largest customers. If consumers bypass our service in favor of direct contact with online retailers, our revenues and financial results would suffer. Consumer Review Sites. We offer consumer reviews on a wide variety of products, services and merchants generated by our members. These consumer reviews aid us in generating search engine traffic. Other websites gather user generated reviews and either use them for their own commercial purposes or license them for display within online retailer websites. Other websites use online web-crawling software to scan weblogs for consumer sentiment about products and services. These businesses may enable online retailers to display consumer reviews that rival or exceed our reviews thereby diverting search engine traffic away from our site and making our offering less attractive. Competition may limit our growth and increase our costs of doing business. Many of our competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, and greater technical expertise, brand recognition and online commerce experience. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do to invest in marketing and promotional campaigns, attracting consumers and merchants, and hiring and retaining key employees. If we are to remain competitive, we must invest substantial resources in our business with no assurance of any additional revenues. If consumers and merchants forego the use of our service for those of our competitors, our revenues and financial results would suffer. If we fail to detect and remove fraudulent clicks, we could lose the confidence of our merchants, thereby causing our business to suffer. Click fraud is an increasing problem for businesses that earn revenue through the referral of Internet traffic from one website to another, such as in the comparison shopping industry, and we are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our site. Click fraud occurs when a person or robotic software clicks on a merchant listing for some reason other than to view the underlying content. We have from time to time credited invoices or refunded revenue to our customers due to click fraud, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. The perpetrators of click fraud have developed sophisticated methods to evade detection, and we are unlikely to detect and remove all fraudulent clicks from our site. If our fraud detection and click filtering systems are insufficient, or if we find evidence of past fraudulent clicks, we may have to issue credits or refunds retroactively to our merchants. This would negatively affect our profitability and hurt our brand. If fraudulent clicks are not detected and removed from our site, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our services because the fraudulent clicks will not lead to actual sales for the merchants. This could lead the merchants to become dissatisfied with our service, which could lead to loss of merchants and revenue and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 23 Table of Contents Currency exchange rate fluctuations could significantly affect our operating results and financial position. During 2007, we derived and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue in markets outside of the United States, primarily Europe and the United Kingdom. Our contracts in Europe including the United Kingdom are denominated primarily in Euros and the British Pound. In addition, a significant portion of our net assets, including our cash, cash equivalents and from time to time, investments in marketable securities, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro and British Pound. If the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, particularly the Euro and the British Pound, our operating results and financial position may be materially reduced. Given the global, complex political and economic dynamics that affect exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot estimate the effect that these fluctuations may have upon future reported results or our overall financial condition. Consolidation in the marketing research industry may result in fewer potential clients for us and a smaller market in general if companies with existing Internet-based panels combine with companies without such panels. Consolidations within the marketing research industry in general and among our clients in particular, such as the acquisition of NFO Worldgroup, Inc. by Taylor Nelson Sofres, Plc, the acquisition of ARBOR, Inc. by GfK and GfK’s recent acquisition of NOP World, could cause us to lose business from clients that acquire companies with Internet-based panels of their own. In addition, consolidated clients may possess superior bargaining power in the marketplace, allowing them to demand and receive lower prices for our products. Similarly, our smaller clients could be acquired by larger marketing research companies that have their own Internet-based panels, such as the recent acquisition of Wirthlin Worldwide by Harris Interactive, Inc., and their need for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated as a result. In any of these cases, our net revenue would be reduced. If our clients develop their own Internet-based panels, we may lose some or all of their business. Some of our large clients that have the financial resources and sufficient need for Internet survey solutions may decide to build their own Internet-based panels. Should some or all of these clients decide to build their own Internet-based panels and succeed in doing so, their need for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated. Additionally, should our smaller clients consolidate and achieve sufficient scale, it may become economically feasible for them to build their own Internet-based panels. If they do so, their need for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated. In either case, our revenue would decline. If we do not keep pace with technological change, we may be unable to implement our business strategy successfully. The marketing research data collection industry, particularly the Internet-based marketing research data collection industry, and the comparison shopping industry are characterized by intense competition, rapid new product and service developments and evolving methodologies. To succeed, we will need to effectively develop and integrate various software programs, technologies and methodologies required to enhance and improve our Internet survey solutions and comparison shopping portals. Any enhancements of new products or services must meet the needs of our current and potential clients and achieve significant market acceptance. Our success will also depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies within the Internet survey solutions industry and the comparison shopping industry by continually improving the performance features and reliability of our products and services and our operating platforms. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development and introduction of new operating technologies or the marketing of new products and services. We could also incur substantial costs if we need to modify our products and services or infrastructure to adapt to these changes. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage and support our growth effectively, we may not be able to execute our business strategy successfully. We have rapidly expanded our international operations, but have limited experience expanding sales and operations facilities in foreign countries. In addition, we recently launched our Ciao comparison shopping business in the United States. If we fail to successfully expand our sales and marketing efforts in the United States and throughout the world, we will be unable to adequately address a sizeable portion of the worldwide market for Internet-based survey data collection and may not be able to grow our business at the rate we anticipate. Our employee base has grown from 54 in February 2002 to 778 as of December 31, 2007, including employees of our subsidiaries in Canada and India, and Ciao and its subsidiaries. We are integrating new personnel to support our growth, which makes it difficult to maintain our standards, controls and procedures. Members of our senior management team are required to devote considerable amounts of their time and attention to this expansion and integration, which reduces the time and attention they have to manage our operations and pursue strategic opportunities. If we are unable to successfully develop, implement, maintain and enhance our financial and accounting systems and controls, integrate new personnel and manage expanded operations, we may not be able to effectively manage our growth. We are concentrating a significant portion of our operational capacity in our facilities located in India, Canada, Germany, Romania and Poland and may open additional facilities elsewhere in the world. If we fail to successfully build or maintain our operations in these countries or elsewhere, we may suffer interruptions in the delivery of our products and services to our clients. In addition, if we fail in this regard, we may be required to relocate these international operations to the United States or elsewhere and thereby incur higher labor costs and relocation costs. If we are unable to achieve international growth of our Internet panels or to overcome other risks of international operations, we may be unable to conduct business on a global level. Expanding our business and our Internet panels to operate on a global level could pose the following risks to us: • more restrictive privacy and data protection laws; • difficulty in recruiting and managing employees in foreign countries; • aversion to U.S. companies or non-domestic companies in the regions where we plan to expand; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • export controls relating to encryption technology; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • problems collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • political instability; and • Internet access restrictions. Additionally, in the process of expanding our global operations, we may encounter more restrictive regulations and laws in Europe or elsewhere that could inhibit our ability to expand our Internet panels. 25 Table of Contents Increased security risks relating to online commerce may deter future use of our services. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of Internet users may inhibit use of the Internet and other online services, including our market research and comparison shopping businesses. Any misappropriation of third-party information collected by us or an Internet provider or an adverse judicial determination relating to the use or dissemination of such information could deter people from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information such as online commerce, which would harm our business. We have significant operations in India that could be limited or prohibited by changes in the political or economic stability of India or government policies in India or the United States. As of December 31, 2007, we had a team of 252 professionals in India, who provide us with project management, data processing and other services. The development of our operations center in India has been facilitated partly by the liberalization policies pursued by the Indian government over the past decade. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could increase our labor costs or create new regulatory expenses for us. In addition, the Indian tax authorities have granted us a tax holiday that is currently set to expire in March 2009. Also, numerous states have introduced legislation aimed at restricting overseas outsourcing and encouraging U.S. businesses to keep their operations within the United States. If these or similar laws or regulations are enacted, our ability to continue overseas operations could be harmed and our competitive position would be damaged. Acquisitions or investments in other companies may have a negative impact on our business and our stock price. As part of our strategy to expand our Internet panels, our technology infrastructure and products and services, we may consider acquiring or making investments in competing and complementary businesses, services, products or technologies as appropriate opportunities arise, such as our prior acquisitions and integration of OpinionSurveys.com, Rapidata.net, Inc. (“Rapidata”), goZing and Ciao. The risks we may face in acquiring or investing in such businesses include: • difficulties with the integration and assimilation of the acquired business, including maintaining the frequency of survey participation of panelists who join our panel through acquisitions, and operational inefficiencies resulting from operating with multiple and potentially incompatible systems until integration is complete; • diversion of our management team’s attention from other business concerns; • availability of favorable acquisition or investment financing; • potential undisclosed liabilities associated with acquisitions; • loss of clients resulting from their desire to diversify their online sample data sources as we increase our market share by acquiring or investing in complementary businesses; • loss of key employees of any acquired business; and • our ability to successfully operate and grow business units within the acquired companies that provide products and services other than Internet survey solutions or comparison shopping. Acquisitions or investments may require us to expend significant amounts of cash. This would result in our inability to use these funds for other business purposes. Additionally, if we fund acquisitions through new issuances of our common stock, our stockholders will be diluted, which may cause the market price of our common stock to 26 Table of Contents decline. If we fund acquisitions by incurring indebtedness, it may require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital and capital expenditures, and for other general corporate purposes. The potential impairment or write-off of goodwill and other intangible assets related to any such acquisition, such as we experienced with Ciao, may reduce our overall earnings, which in turn could negatively affect the price of our common stock. Our success depends on our ability to retain the current members of our senior management team and other key personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our core senior management team of Albert Angrisani, CEO; Robert E. Bies, Executive Vice President and CFO; Jonathan A. Flatow, Chief Administrative Officer; Hugh Davis, Executive Vice President and Co-Founder; Keith Price, Executive Vice President; and Daniel Keller and Stephan Musikant, both Managing Directors of Ciao GmbH. If one or more of these individuals were unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, our business would be disrupted and we might not be able to find replacements on a timely basis or with the same level of skill and experience. Finding and hiring any such replacements could be costly, disruptive to our business, and might require us to grant significant equity awards or other incentive compensation, which could adversely impact our financial results. We do not maintain key-person life insurance for any of our management personnel or other key employees. If we fail to continue to attract and retain project management professionals and other highly-skilled personnel, we may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy. Our businesses and our success depend upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-skilled project management professionals and other technical, managerial, marketing, sales and client support personnel throughout the world. Because competition to attract trained professional, technical and project management personnel is intense in our industries, we may experience difficulty attracting, integrating or retaining the number of qualified personnel needed to successfully implement our business strategy. If we are delayed in recruiting key employees, we may be forced to incur significant additional recruitment, compensation and relocation expenses. If we are unable to hire and retain such personnel in the future, we may not be able to operate our business as we do today or meet the needs of our clients. In the event of a departure of one of our key personnel, we could incur severance obligations and other expenses that could be significant. We do not have adequate plans or procedures in place to allow us to rapidly rebuild our operational and technical infrastructure in case of a catastrophic event in our comparison shopping business and may not have adequate plans and procedures in connection with our Internet survey solutions business. Our ability to provide our Internet survey solutions and comparison shopping services depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Our services have experienced system interruptions from time to time and could experience periodic system interruptions in the future. Our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, design defects, vandalism, denial-of-service attacks, fire, flood, hurricane, terrorism and similar events. Our business interruption insurance, if any, and our nightly backup of critical data for the North American Internet survey solutions business only may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service could impair our reputation and cause our revenues to decline. 27 Table of Contents We may be at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if we infringe on the proprietary rights of others, and related litigation could be time consuming and costly. Because we operate our businesses through websites and rely heavily on computer hardware and software, proprietary rights, particularly trade secrets and copyrights, are critical to our success and competitive position. The actions we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. In addition, effective copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unenforceable or limited in certain countries and, due to the global nature of the Internet, we may be unable to control the dissemination of our content and products and the use of our products and services. In addition, third parties may claim that we have violated their intellectual property rights. For example, companies have recently brought claims against other Internet companies regarding alleged infringement of patent rights relating to methods of doing business over the Internet. To the extent that we violate a patent or other intellectual property right of another party, we may be prevented from operating our businesses as planned or may be required to pay damages, obtain a license, if available, for the use of the patent or other right to use a non-infringing method to accomplish our objectives. Our ability to execute our business strategy will suffer if a successful claim of infringement is brought against us and we are unable to introduce new trademarks, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely basis. Moreover, our general liability insurance may not be adequate to cover all or any of the costs incurred defending patent or trademark infringement claims, or to indemnify us for liability that may be imposed. We may be subject to costly litigation arising out of information presented on or collected in connection with our services, and the litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business if decided adversely. Claims could be made against us under U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, deceptive or unfair practices, fraud, negligence, product liability, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through our comparison shopping portals or based on our collection and use of information. The law relating to the liability of online companies for information carried on, disseminated through or collected by their services is currently unsettled. Our comparison shopping services include consumer-generated reviews from our Ciao websites, which include information regarding the quality of goods, and the reliability of merchants that sell those goods. Claims could be made against us for information contained in that content. In order to reduce exposure to liability for information disseminated through our comparison shopping services, we could be required to make substantial expenditures and discontinue some service offerings. Any such response could materially increase our expenses or reduce our revenues. Our liability insurance, if any, may not be adequate to indemnify us if we become liable for information disseminated through our portals or survey data. Any costs incurred as a result of such liability that are not covered by insurance could reduce our profitability or cause us to sustain losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may also be subject to claims or regulatory action arising out of the collection or dissemination of personal, non-public information of users of our service. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline and limit our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock in the public market. In the past, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and we expect them to continue to do so in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Our operating results may in some future quarter fall below our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition to the risks 28 Table of Contents disclosed elsewhere in this report, factors outside of our control that have caused our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in the past and that may affect us in the future, include: • fluctuations in general economic conditions; • demand for marketing research products and services generally; • fluctuations in the marketing research budgets of the end-users serviced by our marketing research clients; • the failure of our large clients to win Internet-based marketing research projects; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • lower than expected project win-rates; • the development of products and services by our competitors; • project cancellations by our clients or changes in project completion dates by our clients, thereby affecting the timing of our recognition of revenue; and • changes in search engine algorithms. In addition, factors within our control, such as the quality of our products and services and our capacity to deliver projects to our clients in a timely fashion, have caused our operating results to fluctuate in the past and may affect us similarly in the future. The factors listed above may affect both our quarter-to-quarter operating results as well as our long-term success. Given the fluctuations in our operating results, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance or to determine any trend in our performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause the market price of and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit our stockholders’ ability to sell our common stock on the public market. We may lose some or all of the value of our cash equivalents and short term investments. In light of recent changes in the credit market, some of our short term investment securities may suffer illiquidity or events of default. Our cash equivalents and investments in marketable securities are not, in every case, guaranteed or fully insured. From time to time, we may suffer losses on such holdings, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. We might have difficulty obtaining additional capital, which could prevent us from achieving our business objectives. If we are successful in raising additional capital, it may have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund the expansion of our Internet panels and the marketing of our products and services, or to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies or services. If additional financing is not available, or available only on terms that are not acceptable to us, we may be unable to fund the development and expansion of our business, attract qualified personnel, promote our brand name, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Any of these events may harm our business. Also, if we raise funds by issuing additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into common stock, our stockholders will experience dilution, which may be significant, to their ownership interest in us. If we raise funds by issuing shares of a different class of stock other than our common stock or by issuing debt, the holders of such different classes of stock or debt securities may have rights senior to the rights of the holders of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents Government regulations could limit our Internet activities or result in additional costs of doing business and conducting marketing research on the Internet. The United States federal Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the “CAN-SPAM Act”), which took effect on January 1, 2004, imposes a series of new requirements on the use of commercial email messages and directs the FTC to issue new regulations that define relevant criteria and to enforce the Act. Among other things, one proposal being examined by the FTC is a federal “Do Not Email” registry. The CAN-SPAM Act and the regulations enforcing the Act may significantly impact the manner in which we recruit and communicate with our panelists. It may also expose us to potential liability or require us to change or abandon our webmaster affiliate program and other recruitment techniques. We may also need to develop technology or systems to comply with the Act’s requirements for honoring “opt-out” requests. Additionally, there are many state statutes that purport to regulate the distribution of commercial email. If we cannot comply with the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act or these state statutes, we may need to cease operating portions of our business, which could reduce our revenue. The United States federal Internet Tax Freedom Act (the “ITFA”) that was originally passed in 1998 prohibited states or political subdivisions from (i) imposing new taxes on Internet access and (ii) imposing multiple and discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. The ITFA originally expired on October 21, 2001, but has been extended three times. The Internet tax moratorium offered by the ITFA is currently set to expire on November 1, 2014. In the absence of a renewal of the ITFA, states may begin to impose taxes on Internet access, related charges and other e-commerce products and services. If one or more states impose such taxes in a manner that results in the taxation of Internet access providers, ourselves, our customers or other parties upon whom these parties or our panelists rely for access to the Internet or other products or services, our expenses may increase and it may become difficult to recruit and maintain our panelists or sell our products and services. Proposed legislation has been introduced in Congress to make the ITFA permanent. It is unclear whether or not this legislation will be enacted and, if so, the substance of its provisions. A number of states within the United States are participants in the Streamlined Sales Tax Project (the “SSTP”), which seeks to establish a uniform, nationwide state-based taxation system that requires remote sellers to administer and collect their respective sales taxes even though they do not maintain a presence within that state. If the SSTP is successful in implementing such a system, and if our products or services are subject to this system, our resulting tax, administrative and compliance burden may increase. In addition to those described above, we expect more stringent laws and regulations to be enacted both domestically and globally in the near future due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet. Any new legislation or regulations or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet could limit our effectiveness in conducting Internet-based marketing research and increase our operating expenses. In addition, the application of existing laws to the Internet could expose us to substantial liability for which we might not be indemnified by content providers or other third-parties. Existing laws and regulations currently address, and new laws and regulations and industry self-regulatory initiatives are likely to address, a variety of issues that could have a direct impact on our business, including: • user privacy and expression; • the rights and safety of children; • intellectual property; • information security; 30 Table of Contents • anti-competitive practices; • the convergence of offline channels with Internet commerce; and • taxation and pricing. Current laws that explicitly apply to the Internet have not yet been interpreted by the U.S. courts and their applicability and scope are not yet defined. Any new laws or regulations relating to the Internet could have an impact on the growth of the Internet and, as a result, might limit our ability to administer our surveys and provide our products and services. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 