Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights, including in particular patent rights, play a critical role in the drug-eluting stent sector of the medical device industry, and therefore in our business. We face significant risks relating to patents; both as to our own patent position as well as to patents held by third parties. These risks are summarized below. We have described in greater detail our patent position, and patents held by third parties that could impact our business, under “Item 1. Business—Patents and Proprietary Rights” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the matters discussed under that caption and in the risk factors below in considering an investment in our common stock. If any patent infringement or other intellectual property claims asserted against us are successful, we could be enjoined, or prevented, from commercializing our CoStar stent or other product candidates. There are numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties with patent claims in areas that are the focus of our product development efforts. We are aware of patents owned by third parties, to which we do not have licenses that relate to, among other things: • use of paclitaxel (in general or on a stent) to treat restenosis; • stent structure; • catheters used to deliver stents; • composition of materials or therapeutic agents used on or with stents; and • stent and catheter manufacturing processes. 32 Table of Contents A number of these patents are owned by very large and well-capitalized companies that are active participants in the stent market, such as Boston Scientific Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic Inc. and Guidant Corporation. Several of these third-party patents have been or are being asserted in litigation against purported infringers, including against us, demonstrating a willingness by the patent owners to litigate their claims. On February 1, 2005, Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Boston Scientific (as Angiotech’s licensee) initiated legal proceedings against us in the District Court in the Hague, Netherlands seeking a declaration that our CoStar™ stent infringes European Patent No. 0 706 376 B1, one of the Hunter patents owned by Angiotech and licensed to Boston Scientific. In the suit, Angiotech and Boston Scientific are also seeking orders, among other things, preventing us from commercializing our CoStar stent in many European countries and requiring us to pay damages. No trial date for these proceedings has been set. Also, on November 8, 2005, Boston Scientific and Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc., or Scimed initiated legal proceedings against us in the District Court for the District of Delaware seeking a judgment, among other things, that our CoStar stent infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,922,021, one of the Jang patents purportedly assigned to Scimed. In the suit, Boston Scientific and Scimed are also seeking orders, among other things, preventing us from commercializing our CoStar stent in the United States and requiring us to pay damages. No trial date for these proceedings has been set. We are unable to predict the outcome of these legal proceedings. Based on the prolific litigation that has occurred in the stent industry and the fact that we may pose a competitive threat to other large and well-capitalized companies who own or control patents relating to stents and their use, manufacture and delivery, we believe that it is highly likely that additional third parties will assert patent infringement claims against the manufacture, use or sale of our CoStar stent based on one or more of these or other patents. We have also received letters from third parties who have intellectual property rights in, or who have been actively involved in litigation or oppositions relating to, coronary stents, asserting that they may have rights to patents that are relevant to our operations or our stent platform and requesting the initiation of discussions. Any lawsuit could seek to enjoin, or prevent, us from commercializing our CoStar stent and may seek damages from us, and would likely be expensive for us to defend. A court may determine that these patents are valid and infringed by us. In addition, a lawsuit could seek to enjoin, or prevent our distributors from commercializing our CoStar stent. If a third party brings suit against our distributors it could materially affect our ability to generate revenue. For a description of patents that we consider to pose a material litigation risk to us, see the discussion under the caption “Business-Patents and Proprietary Rights-Third-Party Patent Rights” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There may be patents in addition to those described under that caption that relate to aspects of our technology and that may materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that pose a material risk to us. The stent and related markets have experienced rapid technological change and obsolescence in the past, and our competitors have strong incentives to stop or delay the introduction of new products and technologies. Some of the companies in these markets, such as Boston Scientific, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic and Guidant, have been able to capture significant market share by introducing new technologies. These companies have maintained their position in the market by, among other things, establishing intellectual property rights relating to their products and enforcing these rights aggressively against their competitors and potential new entrants into the market. All of the major companies in the stent and related markets, including Boston Scientific, Johnson & Johnson, Guidant and Medtronic, have been repeatedly involved in patent litigation relating to stents since at least 1997. Ongoing patent litigation includes litigation between Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson relating to Boston Scientific’s drug-eluting stent and Johnson & Johnson’s drug-eluting stent. Each company is claiming that the other company infringes its intellectual property. We may pose a competitive threat to many of the companies in the stent and related markets. Accordingly, many of these companies, especially Boston Scientific and others against which we would compete directly, have a strong incentive to take steps, through patent litigation or otherwise, to prevent us from commercializing our CoStar stent and as indicated above, Angiotech and Boston Scientific have initiated legal proceedings in the Netherlands against us seeking to prevent us from commercializing our CoStar stent in certain European countries, and Boston Scientific and Scimed have initiated legal proceedings in Delaware against us seeking to prevent us from commercializing our CoStar stent in the United States. In addition, during the discovery process of any of these litigations we may be required to disclose proprietary or confidential information and trade secrets. Although a court would likely issue a 33 Table of Contents protective order covering the information disclosed in the discovery process, there is some risk that such information could be disclosed to third parties, even if inadvertently. If proprietary and confidential information and trade secrets are disclosed to a third party, such party could try to use such information against us and to our detriment. There are numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties with patent claims in areas that are the focus of our product development efforts. If we or our distributors are found to infringe the patents described below, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Boston Scientific also owns a series of patents, known as the “Kunz” patents, which relate to the use of paclitaxel to treat restenosis generally and also to treat restenosis via a stent. It is possible that Boston Scientific could assert a patent infringement claim against us based on these patents. Angiotech is the owner of a number of patents, sometimes referred to as the “Hunter” patents, and has licensed from the U.S. government a number of other patents, sometimes referred to as the “Kinsella” patents, that also claim the use of paclitaxel coated stents to treat angiogenesis and restenosis. Angiotech granted an exclusive license to Boston Scientific under these patents in the coronary vascular field of use. The legal proceedings initiated by Angiotech and Boston Scientific against us in the Netherlands allege that the CoStar stent infringes one of the Hunter patents. It is possible that Boston Scientific or Angiotech could assert other patent infringement claims against us based on these patents. Boston Scientific purports to own or have rights to other patents that could have a material adverse effect on us. These include the “Jang” stent structure patents, including patents with claims relating to a stent with a plurality of cavities which are micro-holes or micro-slits which act as reservoirs for a substance and claims relating to an expandable stent having expansion columns and connecting strut columns. The legal proceedings initiated by Boston Scientific and Scimed against us in Delaware allege that our CoStar stent infringes one of the Jang patents. It is possible that Boston Scientific or Scimed could assert other patent infringement claims against us based on these patents. In addition, Guidant owns a number of patents that could have a material adverse effect on us. These include the “Yock” family of patents that are directed to rapid exchange catheters, the “Lau” family of patents which claim rapid exchange catheters for stent delivery, another “Lau” family of patents directed to stent structures and the “Castro” patents, which are directed to a manufacturing process involving the application of a material to a stent. It is possible that Guidant could assert a patent infringement claim against us based on these patents. Title 35 Section 271(e) of the United States Code is known as the clinical trial safe harbor that allows parties to use a patented invention in the United States solely for uses reasonably related to developing information for submission to the FDA. While we believe that our clinical activities in the United States and outside of the United States would be covered by the safe harbor, there is no way to confirm such belief until the case is litigated. In addition, the U.S. safe harbor may not cover our stent manufacturing or other activities in the United States if those activities are not reasonably related to developing information for submission to the FDA. Whether we infringe any patent claim will not be known with certainty unless and until a court interprets the patent claim in the context of litigation. The outcome of patent litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, especially in medical device-related patent cases that may, for example, turn on the interpretation of claim language by the court which may not be to our advantage, the jury’s ability to understand and interpret the technical and legal issues and also the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. If an infringement allegation is made against us, we may seek to invalidate the asserted patent claim, render the entire patent unenforceable and/or to allege non-infringement of the asserted patent claim. In Europe, individual country laws control the standard for patent invalidation, and the burden of proof to invalidate a particular claim can vary among countries. In order for us to invalidate a U.S. patent claim in court, 34 Table of Contents we would need to rebut the presumption of validity afforded to issued patents in the United States with clear and convincing evidence of invalidity, which is a high burden of proof. On February 18, 2005, we initiated legal proceedings in the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom requesting that the court invalidate EP 0 706 376 B1, which is one of the Hunter patents owned by Angiotech and licensed to Boston Scientific that is the subject of the legal proceedings asserted against us in the Netherlands. The trial began on October 4, 2005, and the High Court of Justice heard the parties’ closing arguments in mid December 2005. On February 24, 2006, the High Court of Justice rendered its decision that EP 0 706 376 B1 is invalid based on the grounds that the patent was obvious in light of the state of scientific knowledge at the priority date of the patent. Angiotech announced that it intended to appeal the decision. We are unable to predict the outcome of the appellate proceedings. On March 31, 2005, we filed an Application to Revoke Australian Patent Nos. 728873, 771815 and 693797 owned by Angiotech Pharmaceuticals and University of British Columbia in the Federal Court of Australia (Victoria District Registry), on the basis, among others, that the patents are invalid in light of the state of scientific knowledge as of the priority date of the patents and that they are not enabled for the claimed subject matter. We have also asserted that the patents are invalid because both Angiotech and the University of British Colombia are designated as owners of the patent, whereas in the United States on correspondingly similar claims, Angiotech is designated as the sole owner. On February 2, 2006, the Federal Court issued an order allowing us to proceed with our claim of invalidity on the basis that the University of British Colombia is not entitled to patents. Angiotech and the University of British Colombia have appealed the order. A hearing on the appeal is scheduled for May 2006. A trial for these proceedings has been rescheduled to begin on February 12, 2007. If the Federal Court determines that the University of British Colombia is not entitled to patents, the patents may be revoked in a final decision. We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings. We are not currently conducting clinical trials in Australia on our CoStar stent, but we may seek to commercialize our CoStar stent in Australia in the future. If the Federal Court of Australia rules that these Australian patents are valid, then we may in the future need to litigate whether we infringe any of the valid claims. If we are found to infringe one or more valid claims, then we may not be able to commercialize our CoStar stent in Australia without a license from Boston Scientific, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. On October 26, 2005, we initiated nullity proceedings against Angiotech and the University of British Columbia in the District Court in The Hague, Netherlands seeking revocation of EP 0 706 376 B1, which is one of the Hunter patents owned by Angiotech and licensed to Boston Scientific. This patent is the subject of the legal proceedings asserted against us in the Netherlands by Boston Scientific and Angiotech. We are claiming that the patent is invalid based on prior art, the claims are not enabled by the patent specification, and other grounds. A trial on the merits in these proceedings is scheduled for October 27, 2006. We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings. In the event that we are found to infringe any valid claim in a patent held by a third party, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay damages, including up to treble damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of our products, including our CoStar stent, that infringe the patent rights of others through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • expend significant resources to redesign our technology so that it does not infringe others’ patent rights, or to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property, which may not be possible; • discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology; and/or • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. 35 Table of Contents Any development or acquisition of non-infringing products or technology or licenses could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are required to, but cannot, obtain a license to valid patent rights held by a third party, we would likely be prevented from commercializing the relevant product. We believe that it is unlikely that we would be able to obtain a license to any necessary patent rights controlled by companies, like Boston Scientific, against which we would compete directly. This would include, for example, a license to the Jang, Kunz, Hunter or Kinsella patents. If we need to redesign products to avoid third-party patents, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional studies or submitting technical, manufacturing or other information related to the redesigned product and, ultimately, in obtaining approval. In addition, many of our agreements, including our distribution agreements with Biotronik AG and the St. Jude Medical affiliates, our supply agreements for laser-cut stents and catheters and our license agreement with Novartis AG, require us to indemnify the other party in certain circumstances where our products have been found to infringe a patent or other proprietary rights of others. An indemnification claim against us may require us to pay substantial sums to the indemnified party, including its attorneys’ fees. Intellectual property litigation against or by us could significantly disrupt our development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention and quickly consume our financial resources. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and intellectual property rights in the medical device industry generally and the drug-eluting stent industry in particular. We are currently defending, and may in the future be forced to defend, claims of infringement brought by our competitors and others, and we may institute litigation against others who we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation results in significant expense. Some of our competitors, such as Boston Scientific, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic and Guidant, have considerable resources available to them and a strong economic incentive to undertake substantial efforts to stop or delay us from bringing our CoStar stent to market and achieving market acceptance. We, on the other hand, are a company with comparatively few resources available to us to engage in costly and protracted litigation. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, intellectual property litigation against or by us could significantly disrupt our development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention and quickly consume our financial resources. If third parties file patent applications or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which we refer to as the U.S. Patent Office, or in other proceedings outside the United States, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability. For example, we have filed an application seeking to provoke an interference with a patent owned by MicroCHIPS, Inc. with claims directed to an implantable stent having reservoirs and a system for releasing drugs contained in the reservoirs, as the priority date of the MicroCHIPS patent is after the priority date of our patent. Even if we are successful in these proceedings, we will incur substantial costs, and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel could be diverted in pursuit of these proceedings. If we are unable to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection covering our products, others may be able to make, use or sell our products, which would adversely affect our market share, and, therefore, our revenues. Our ability to protect our drug-eluting stent technology from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents relating to medical devices and pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, rights under any of our issued patents may not provide us with commercially meaningful protection for our drug-eluting stents or afford us a commercial advantage against our competitors or their competitive products or processes. In addition, 36 Table of Contents patents may not issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and moreover, patents that have issued to us or may issue in the future may not be valid or enforceable. Further, even if valid and enforceable, our patents may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from marketing stents like ours, despite our patent rights. The validity of our patent claims depends, in part, on whether prior art references described or rendered obvious our inventions as of the effective filing date of our patent applications. We may not have identified all prior art, such as U.S. and foreign patents or published applications or published scientific literature, that could adversely affect the validity of our issued patents or the patentability of our pending patent applications. For example, patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the U.S. Patent Office for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Patent applications filed in countries outside the United States are not typically published until at least 18 months from their first filing date. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications relating to, our stent technologies. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our stents or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. It is possible that we may be unsuccessful in an interference, resulting in a loss of some portion or all of our U.S. patent position. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. We may initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, which may prompt our adversaries in such litigation to challenge the validity, scope or enforceability of our patents. If a court decides that our patents are not valid, not enforceable or of a limited scope, we will not have the right to stop others from using our inventions. We also rely on trade secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. In addition, we rely on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. Any disclosure of confidential data into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us. Risks Related to Our Business We are depending heavily on the success of our CoStar stent. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our CoStar stent in Europe, the United States or other major markets or experience significant delays in doing so, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly delayed and our business will be harmed. We have invested all of our product development time and resources in our drug-eluting stent technology, which we have initially commercialized in the form of our CoStar stent. We anticipate that our ability to generate meaningful revenues will depend on the successful commercialization of our CoStar stent in the European Union and the receipt of regulatory approval in the United States and other major markets. The commercial success of our CoStar stent in Europe will depend upon manufacturing commercial supplies, successfully launching the product and acceptance of the product by the medical community and third-party payors as clinically useful, cost-effective and safe. Although our CoStar stent has received CE Mark approval in the European Union, if the data from our clinical trials is not satisfactory, we may not proceed with 37 Table of Contents our planned filing of applications for regulatory approvals in the United States or other major markets, or we may be forced to delay the filings. Even if we file an application for approval with satisfactory clinical data, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may not accept our filing, or may request additional information, including data from additional clinical trials. The FDA or foreign regulatory authorities may also approve our CoStar stent for very limited purposes with many restrictions on its use, may delay approval, or ultimately, may not grant marketing approval for our CoStar stent. Even if we do receive FDA or foreign regulatory approval, we may be unable to gain market acceptance by the medical community and third-party payors. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our CoStar stent in the United States or other major markets, our ability to generate revenue will be significantly impaired and our business will suffer. We have limited manufacturing resources and experience, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of our CoStar stent, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently manufacture our CoStar stent for our COSTAR II U.S. pivotal clinical trial and for research and development purposes at our manufacturing facility in Menlo Park, California, and for commercial sale at our manufacturing facility in Athlone, Ireland. If there were a disruption to our existing manufacturing facilities, we would have no other means of manufacturing our CoStar stent until we were able to restore the manufacturing capability at our current facilities or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. If we were unable to produce sufficient quantities of our CoStar stent for use in our current and planned clinical trials or for commercialization, or if our manufacturing process yields substandard stents, our regulatory, development and commercialization efforts would be delayed. In order to produce our CoStar stent in the quantities that are required to meet our distributors’ forecasts, we have increased, or “scaled up,” the production process over the previous level of production. If the scaled-up production process is not efficient or produces stents that do not meet quality and other standards, we may be unable to meet market demand and our revenues, business and financial prospects would be adversely affected. Furthermore, since we are dependent on a number of suppliers to supply us with laser cut stents and catheters, if our suppliers are unable to meet our requirements, our commercialization efforts would be impaired. Additionally, any damage to or destruction of our facilities or our equipment, prolonged power outage or contamination at our facilities would significantly impair our ability to produce our CoStar stents. For example, because our Menlo Park facilities are located in a seismic zone, we face the risk that an earthquake may damage our facilities and disrupt our operations. Quality issues in our manufacturing processes could delay commercialization of our CoStar stent and our clinical trials. The production of our CoStar stent must occur in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. In spite of stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of defective products in a lot. In addition, we must meet certain lot release specifications before our CoStar stent can be shipped to our distributors, including, among other things, the amount of drug loaded on the stent, the rate the drug is released in vitro, the level of impurities present in the drug polymer compositions and mechanical performance of our CoStar stent. If a particular lot fails to meet these lot release specifications, we will not be able to ship that lot to our distributors. If we are not able to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, the commercialization of our CoStar stent and clinical trials could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. Our CoStar stent may never achieve market acceptance. Although our CoStar stent has received CE Mark approval in the European Union and may receive additional regulatory approvals in the United States and other foreign countries, it may not gain market 38 Table of Contents acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of our CoStar stent will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived effectiveness of our CoStar stent; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. If our CoStar stent, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate meaningful product revenue and we may not become profitable. The majority of drug-eluting stents sold in the United States by Boston Scientific and Johnson & Johnson utilize rapid exchange catheters. If we are not able to develop a commercially acceptable rapid exchange catheter that does not infringe valid patent claims or if we are not able to license the rapid exchange catheter technology on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to access a significant portion of the drug-eluting stent market in the United States. If our distributors’ sales and marketing efforts are not successful or if we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities, our business may be harmed. We do not have a sales organization and have no experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of drug-eluting stents or any other medical devices. To market and sell our CoStar stent internationally, we have entered into distribution agreements with third parties. Our existing distribution agreements are generally short-term in duration, and we will have to pursue alternative distributors if the other parties to these distribution agreements terminate or elect not to renew their agreements with us. Under the terms of our distribution agreements, our distributors are responsible for the marketing and selling of our CoStar stent in their respective territories. None of our distributors have experience marketing and selling drug-eluting stents. We do not know whether our distributors’ sales and marketing efforts will be successful. If our relationships with our distributors do not progress as anticipated, or if their sales and marketing strategies are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. If our CoStar stent is approved for commercial sale in the United States, we currently plan to establish our own sales force to market it in the United States. If we develop our own marketing and sales capabilities, our sales force will be competing with the experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations of our competitors. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay or limit the success of any product launch. We may not be able to develop this capacity on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell our CoStar stent in the United States. To the extent that we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services in the United States, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our CoStar stent, or any other drug delivery device that we may develop. Furthermore, to the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with other companies, any revenues received will depend on the skills and efforts of others, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some of our existing or future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote sufficient efforts to marketing our products. If we are unable to establish and maintain adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. 39 Table of Contents The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer and more effective than our CoStar stent or other products we may develop, our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated. The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid and profound technological change. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain a competitive position in the development of technologies and products in the drug delivery field. If physicians, patients or hospitals opt to use our competitors’ products, our commercial opportunity will be reduced and our revenues will suffer. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions in the United States and abroad. Our principal competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. In addition, our distributors will also face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources and expertise in commercializing drug-eluting stents. For example, Johnson & Johnson and Boston Scientific, two companies with far greater financial and marketing resources than we possess, have both developed, and are actively marketing, drug-eluting stents which have been approved by the FDA. In addition, in August 2005, Medtronic Inc. commercially launched its Endeavor™ drug-eluting coronary stent in the European Union. We may be unable to demonstrate that our CoStar stent offers any advantages over Johnson & Johnson’s CYPHER™ stent, Boston Scientific’s TAXUS™ Express2™ stent or Medtronic’s Endeavor™ stent. In addition, in September 2005, Boston Scientific announced that it had received CE Mark approval for commercial sale of its TAXUS™ Liberte™ paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent system. A number of other companies such as Biosensors International Group, Ltd.’s Netherlands-based subsidiary, Occam International B.V. and Sorin Biomedica S.p.A. have also commercially launched drug-eluting stents in Europe. Abbott Laboratories is also developing a drug-eluting stent. In January 2006, Guidant announced that it received CE Mark approval for its Xience™ V Everolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent System and plans to launch the device in the second quarter of 2006. In addition, Guidant has announced that it completed enrollment in its SPIRIT II and SPIRIT III clinical trials. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with, or mergers with or acquisitions by, large and established companies or through the development of novel products and technologies. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; and • develop more effective or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The industry in which we operate has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change, and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made. Our competitors may develop and commercialize stents or other medical device or pharmaceutical products that are safer or more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, we are aware of companies that are developing various other less-invasive technologies for treating cardiovascular disease, which could make our stent platform obsolete. We also compete with our competitors in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. In addition, as more drug-eluting stents are approved for sale in the major markets, the price paid for drug-eluting stents may decline. If the price paid for drug-eluting stents declines, our ability to generate revenue will suffer. 40 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our CoStar stent by third-party payors, there may be no commercially viable markets for our CoStar stent or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and levels of reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payors affect the market for our CoStar stent. The efficacy, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our CoStar stent and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. If we are not able to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our CoStar stent by government sponsored healthcare or private insurance, the market may be much smaller than we expect. In addition, reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, even those in the European Union where our CoStar stent has received CE Mark approval, we may be required to produce additional clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, if at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our CoStar stent in the international markets in which those approvals are sought, including in the European Union. We believe that future reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may adversely affect the demand for our CoStar stent and other products currently under development and limit our ability to sell our CoStar stent and other product candidates on a profitable basis. In addition, third-party payors continually attempt to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. If reimbursement for our CoStar stent or other products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our CoStar stent or other products would be impaired and our future revenues would be adversely affected. We depend on single source suppliers for our CoStar stent components and the manufacturing components used in our CoStar stent. The loss of these suppliers could delay or prevent commercialization or delay our clinical trials of our CoStar stent. We rely on third parties to supply us with the critical components used in our CoStar stent. In November 2005, we purchased substantially all of the assets of Phytogen Life Sciences Inc. pursuant to an order of the bankruptcy court. If the Phytogen paclitaxel purchased by us does not meet quality or other specifications, the commercialization of our CoStar stent could be prevented or delayed. We have obtained paclitaxel from another qualified supplier, but we have not yet used it for commercial production. We do not have long-term contracts with our third-party suppliers of stent delivery catheters, polymers or the cobalt chromium tubing and laser-precision cutting process required to produce our CoStar stent. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with our third-party suppliers of some of the equipment and components that are used in our manufacturing process. Except for the suppliers of our laser-cut stents and stent delivery catheters, none of our suppliers have agreed to maintain a guaranteed level of production capacity. Furthermore, suppliers that have guaranteed a level of production capacity may still be unable to satisfy our supply needs. If any of our suppliers are unable to meet our forecasts our ability to manufacture our CoStar stent may be impaired. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components may take a substantial amount of time. We may also have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Furthermore, since some of these suppliers are located outside of the United States, we are subject to foreign export laws and U.S. import and customs regulations, which complicate and could delay shipments to us. Some of the manufacturers of stent components are also our competitors and may be reluctant to supply components to us on favorable terms, if at all. Replacing suppliers could cause additional regulatory delays and the manufacture and delivery of our CoStar stent could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay completion of our clinical trials or commercialization of our CoStar stent. In addition, we will be required to obtain regulatory clearance 41 Table of Contents from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities to use different suppliers or components. As a result, regulatory approval of our CoStar stent may not be received on a timely basis or at all. Our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approval for these manufacturing facilities, our business and our results of operations would be harmed. Commercialization of our CoStar stent and completion of our clinical trials require the use of manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our CoStar stent and other product candidates. While our manufacturing facility in Ireland has received the requisite foreign regulatory approval, the FDA must also approve the facilities that manufacture our CoStar stent and other product candidates for U.S. commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for our CoStar stent and other product candidates. Suppliers of components of, and products used to manufacture, our CoStar stent and other product candidates must also comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant time, money and record-keeping and quality assurance efforts and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. Our suppliers may not satisfy these requirements. If we or our suppliers do not achieve or maintain required regulatory approval for our manufacturing operations, our commercialization efforts could be delayed, which would harm our business and our results of operations. In addition, from time to time, suppliers are required to provide information to, and answer questions of, the regulatory authorities. If our suppliers are unable to satisfactorily respond to the regulatory authorities’ requests for information, we may experience delays in obtaining, or may not maintain or obtain, regulatory approvals for our CoStar stent or other product candidates. If we fail to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our CoStar stent, our CoStar stent could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. Any product for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Even if regulatory approval of a product is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our CoStar stent and other potential products, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, manufacturer or manufacturing problems or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recall, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are unable to manage our expected growth, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our CoStar stent and other product candidates. We expect to rapidly expand our operations and grow our research and development, product development and administrative operations. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. In particular, the commencement of our U.S. pivotal clinical trial has consumed a significant portion of management’s time and our financial resources, and we expect that our U.S. pivotal clinical trial will continue to consume a significant portion of management’s time and our financial resources. To manage any further growth and to commercialize our CoStar stent in the European Union, the United States and other major markets, we will be required to improve existing and implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our anticipated growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed. 42 Table of Contents Even though our CoStar stent has received CE Mark approval, we do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market our CoStar stent or any other product candidates in the United States or other major markets, and we may never obtain regulatory approval. In February 2006, our CoStar stent received CE Mark approval, and we commercially launched our CoStar stent in many of the countries in the European Union through our distributor, Biotronik AG. We do not have the necessary regulatory approvals to market our CoStar stent or any other product in the United States or major markets, other than the European Union. Our CoStar stent and our operations are subject to extensive regulation in the United States by the FDA. The FDA regulates the research, testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, distribution and production of medical devices in the United States to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. Our CoStar stent is a combination product that will be regulated primarily as a class III medical device in the United States. The regulatory approval process for our CoStar stent in the United States involves, among other things, obtaining FDA approval of an investigational device exemption, or IDE, application, successfully completing clinical trials and obtaining FDA approval of a premarket approval application, or PMA. We received conditional approval of our IDE application from the FDA to commence enrollment or our COSTAR II pivotal clinical trial. In December 2005, we received approval to expand enrollment to the full cohort of 1700 patients at up to 85 sites. The premarket approval process can be expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and other data, generally takes several years and may never result in the FDA granting premarket approval. We cannot assure you that we will obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to market our CoStar stent in the United States. Our CoStar stent is currently marketed in the European Union and other international markets, and we intend to expand the markets in which our CoStar stent is commercialized. To be able to market and sell our CoStar stent in other countries, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with the regulations of those countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Obtaining and maintaining foreign regulatory approvals are expensive, and although our CoStar stent has received CE Mark approval in the European Union, we cannot be certain that we will receive regulatory approvals in all foreign countries in which we plan to market our CoStar stent. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our CoStar stent, our ability to generate revenues will be harmed. In addition to the European Union, we are currently commercializing our CoStar stent in certain countries outside of the United States and Japan that do not require regulatory approval. These and other countries that do not currently require regulatory approval to market our products may in the future require regulatory approval. Before marketing our CoStar stent or any other product candidate in the United States or other markets, we must successfully complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. Product development, including pre-clinical studies and clinical testing, is a long, expensive and uncertain process and is subject to delays. It may take us several years to complete our testing, if at all, and a clinical trial may fail at any stage. If our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials fail to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective, our ability to commercialize our product candidates will be substantially impaired. We have designed the protocol of our U.S. pivotal clinical trial for our CoStar stent based in part on prior clinical trials that used different stents. The results of these prior clinical trials may not be indicative of the clinical results we would obtain for our U.S. pivotal clinical trial. Our clinical efforts are currently focused on the commercialization of our CoStar stent, which is a cobalt chromium, paclitaxel-eluting stent. We have only limited clinical data on our CoStar stent, which we derived 43 Table of Contents from the EuroSTAR and COSTAR I trials. Our other prior clinical trials used either a bare metal stainless steel stent or a stainless steel, paclitaxel-eluting stent. In addition to using a different metal than used in our CoStar stent, the stainless steel stent had slightly different dimensions than our CoStar stent. We have designed the protocol, including the dosage formulations, for our U.S. pivotal clinical trial based on the results of these prior clinical trials. This trial has been designed in large part based on the results of our PISCES study, which used a stainless steel, paclitaxel-eluting form of our stent technology, as well as on the results of our COSTAR I and EuroSTAR trials. The results of these prior trials may not be indicative of the behavior of, and therefore the clinical results we will obtain with, our CoStar stent in our U.S. pivotal clinical trial. If results at least as favorable as the results observed in our prior trials are not observed in our U.S. pivotal clinical trial, our commercialization efforts will be delayed or halted and our business may be harmed. The clinical results we have reported to date may not be indicative of future clinical results. The clinical results that we have reported to date are limited to four- and twelve-month follow-up data from our PISCES study, six- and twelve-month follow-up data from our EuroSTAR trial, and four- and twelve-month follow-up data from our COSTAR I trial. Our U.S. pivotal clinical trial, COSTAR II, will require at least eight-month follow-up data. While the stainless steel, paclitaxel-eluting stent has shown favorable results after twelve months in our PISCES study and our CoStar stent has shown favorable results after twelve months in our COSTAR I trial and our EuroSTAR trial, it is possible that the long-term results we obtain with our CoStar stent in our U.S. pivotal clinical trial may not show similar effectiveness. In addition, any pre-clinical or clinical tests may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Our current and planned clinical trials may not begin on time, or at all, and may not be completed on schedule, or at all. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, place a clinical trial on hold, or do not permit us to expand the enrollment of a clinical trial; • patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect; • patients are not followed-up at the rate we expect; • clinical trial sites decide not to participate or cease participation in a clinical trial; • clinical trial sites determine not to use or cease using the control stent; • patients experience adverse side effects or events related to our products; • patients die during a clinical trial for a variety of reasons, including the advanced stage of their disease and medical problems, which may not be related to our product candidates; • third-party clinical investigators do not perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol and good clinical practices, or other third-party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials if investigators find us not to be in compliance with regulatory requirements; • third-party suppliers fail to provide us with critical components, including stent delivery catheters, cobalt chromium tubing and precision laser-cut stents, which conform to design and performance specifications; 44 Table of Contents • the failure of our manufacturing process to produce finished products which conform to design and performance specifications; • changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions; • the interim results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or negative; • pre-clinical or clinical data is interpreted by third parties in different ways; or • our trial design, although approved, is inadequate to demonstrate safety and/or efficacy. Clinical trials may require the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. For example, our U.S. pivotal clinical trial for our CoStar stent, COSTAR II, is designed to enroll approximately 1,700 patients at up to 85 sites. Patient enrollment in clinical trials and completion of patient follow-up in clinical trials depend on many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study and patient compliance. For example, patients may be discouraged from enrolling in our clinical trials if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive post-treatment procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our CoStar stent, or they may be persuaded to participate in contemporaneous trials of competitive products. In addition, patients participating in our clinical trials may die before completion of the trial or suffer adverse medical effects unrelated to our CoStar stent. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a study may cause an increase in costs and delays or result in the failure of the trial. Our clinical trial costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trials or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned. Adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to repeat a trial, terminate a trial or cancel the entire program. If the third parties on whom we rely to conduct our clinical trials and to assist us with pre-clinical development do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, we rely on third parties to assist with our pre-clinical development of product candidates. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if these third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates on a timely basis, if at all. Furthermore, our third-party clinical trial investigators may be delayed in conducting our clinical trials for reasons outside of their control. For instance, one of our competitors is a major supplier of the intravascular ultrasound, or IVUS, catheters used in our clinical trials to measure percent volume obstruction, or the volume of the lumen, or the inner channel of the artery through which blood flows, in the stent occupied by restenotic tissue. If the supply of IVUS catheters to our clinical trial sites is interrupted, our clinical trials may be delayed or terminated. Problems with the stent to be used in the control group could adversely affect our U.S. pivotal clinical trial for our CoStar stent. Our U.S. pivotal clinical trial of our CoStar stent could be significantly delayed or harmed if we experience problems with the stent to be used in the control group for this trial. Boston Scientific’s TAXUS™ Express2™ stent is being used as the control stent in our U.S. pivotal clinical trial. In July 2004, Boston Scientific announced the recall of approximately 85,000 TAXUS™ Express2™ stent systems and approximately 11,000 Express2™ stent systems due to characteristics in the delivery catheters that have the potential to impede balloon deflation during 45 Table of Contents a coronary angioplasty procedure. In August 2004, Boston Scientific announced that it would recall an additional 3,000 TAXUS™ Express2™ stents. In addition, in January 2006, Boston Scientific announced that it had received a corporate warning letter from the FDA related to procedures, processes and timeliness of Boston Scientific’s corporate quality management system. If during the enrollment and treatment period for our U.S. pivotal clinical trial, there is a recall of the control stent or the control stent is removed from the market, our trial would likely be substantially delayed. In addition, if certain sites decide not to participate or to cease participation in the trial because of a determination not to use the control stent, our U.S. pivotal clinical trial may be delayed. The FDA could also require us to redesign the trial based on an alternative control stent. Any significant delay or redesign would significantly delay and potentially impair our ability to commercialize our CoStar stent in the U.S. Our product candidates are based on a new technology, and we have only limited experience in regulatory affairs, which may affect our ability or the time required to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, if at all. Drug-eluting stents were introduced in the U.S. marketplace in 2003. To date, the FDA has approved only Boston Scientific’s TAXUS™ Express2™ and Johnson & Johnson’s CYPHER™ drug-eluting stents for commercial sale. Because drug-eluting stents are relatively new, regulatory agencies, including the FDA, may be slower in evaluating product candidates. For example, there are currently several measures of restenosis, including binary restenosis rate, in-stent late loss, in-segment late loss, percentage volume obstruction and percentage diameter loss. Treatments may exhibit a favorable measure using one of these metrics and an unfavorable measure using another metric. It has not been settled which of these metrics, or another metric, is the ideal measure for evaluating the clinical effectiveness of stents. It is possible that a change in the accepted metrics may result in reconfiguration and delays in our clinical trials or our CoStar stent being considered not to be clinically effective. Furthermore, unlike surface-coated stents, our product candidates are based on drug delivery polymer reservoirs and the use of a bioresorbable polymer. Because there are currently no approved products based on this technology, the regulatory requirements governing this type of product may be more rigorous or less clearly established than those for already approved surface-coated stents or other vascular drug delivery devices. In addition, our CoStar stent has not been approved for use as a bare stent, and we do not expect to obtain FDA approval for this stent as a bare stent prior to filing our PMA with the FDA. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with pre-clinical and clinical data that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective before they can be approved for commercial sale. We have only limited experience in filing and prosecuting the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals, and our clinical staff is limited. As a result, we may experience a longer regulatory process in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates. Pre-clinical development is a long, expensive and uncertain process, and we may terminate one or more of our pre-clinical development programs. We may determine that certain pre-clinical product candidates or programs do not have sufficient potential to warrant the allocation of resources, such as the potential development of our stent technology for the treatment of an AMI. Accordingly, we may elect to terminate our programs for such product candidates. If we terminate a pre-clinical program in which we have invested significant resources, our prospects will suffer, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. We may not be successful in our efforts to expand our portfolio of products and develop additional drug delivery technologies. A key element of our strategy is to discover, develop and commercialize a portfolio of new products in addition to our CoStar stent. We are seeking to do so through our internal research programs and intend to explore strategic collaborations for the development of new products utilizing our stent technology, such as the 46 Table of Contents development of a bioresorbable drug-eluting stent for the treatment of restenosis and other vascular disorders. Research programs to identify new disease targets, product candidates and delivery techniques require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for many reasons, including the following: • the research methodology used may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; • competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete; • our delivery technologies may not safely or efficiently deliver the drugs; and • product candidates may on further study be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective. Our strategy also includes exploring the use of compounds and drugs other than paclitaxel, such as pimecrolimus, for the treatment of restenosis and other indications. We may not be able obtain any necessary licenses to promising compounds or drugs on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, our strategy includes substantial reliance on strategic collaborations with others to develop new products. If these collaborators do not prioritize and commit substantial resources to these collaborations, or if we are unable to secure successful collaborations on acceptable business terms, we may be unable to discover suitable potential product candidates or develop additional delivery technologies and our business prospects will suffer. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have a limited operating history. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $103.1 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in 1999. We expect to continue to incur operating losses, in the aggregate and on a per share basis, for the next several years. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity, net current assets and working capital. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing medical devices, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. To date, we have not generated significant product revenues. We have financed our operations and internal growth primarily through private placements of equity securities and convertible promissory notes, as well as our initial public offering of our common stock. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical trials and to commercialization of our CoStar stent. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with the conduct of our clinical trials. As a public company, our general and administrative and legal costs have increased in part due to the additional operational and regulatory burdens applicable to public companies. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers, are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from commercialization and product development activities to compliance 47 Table of Contents activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Moreover, as a result of our CoStar stent receiving CE Mark approval, we expect to incur increased manufacturing expenses and will incur significant sales and marketing expenses if our CoStar stent is approved by the FDA. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We may need to raise substantial additional capital to: • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development; • scale up our manufacturing operations to meet increased demand; • defend, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; and • commercialize our CoStar stent and other product candidates, if any such product candidates receive regulatory approval for commercial sale. We believe that our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as the interest we earn on these balances and revenues from future product sales will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through at least the first half of 2007. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • future clinical trial results; • the cost of filing and prosecuting patent applications and defending and enforcing our patent and other intellectual property rights; • the cost of defending, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third-party patent or other intellectual property rights; • the cost of establishing clinical and commercial supplies of our CoStar stent and any other products or product candidates that we may develop; • the cost of building additional commercial scale manufacturing capabilities; • the cost and timing of regulatory approvals; • the cost and timing of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • licensing technologies for future development; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; and • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies, although we currently have no commitments or agreements relating to any of these types of transactions. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of product revenue, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements, as well as through interest income earned on cash balances. We may never be able to generate sufficient amounts of product revenue to meet our cash needs. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise 48 Table of Contents may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it will be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may be required to liquidate some or all of our assets or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our planned research, development and commercial activities, which could harm our business. We depend on our officers, and if we are not able to retain them or recruit additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent on our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Frank Litvack, our Chief Technology Officer, John F. Shanley, our Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Azin Parhizgar, our Vice President of Engineering and Pilot Production, Stephen H. Diaz and our other officers. Due to the specialized knowledge each of our officers possess with respect to interventional cardiology and our operations, the loss of service of any of our officers could delay or prevent the successful completion of our clinical trials and the commercialization of our CoStar stent. Each of our officers may terminate their employment without notice and without cause or good reason. We do not carry key person life insurance on our officers. In addition, our growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified scientific, commercial and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities particularly with respect to engineering, regulatory affairs and clinical. Our offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, where competition for personnel with healthcare industry skills is intense. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may increase our expenses or reduce our revenues. Our current distribution agreement with Biotronik AG provides for payments to us in euros. In addition, we have established a manufacturing facility in Ireland, for which we incur expenses, including construction expenses, rental payments and employee salaries, denominated in euros. Our contracts for conducting certain of our clinical trials in Europe are also denominated in euros. Accordingly, if the euro strengthens against the U.S. dollar, our expenses related to our foreign clinical trials and Ireland facilities will increase, and if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the euro, our payments from Biotronik will decrease. We may become exposed to fluctuations in other foreign currencies in the future, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Industry Legislative or regulatory reform of the healthcare system may affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In both the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the regulatory and healthcare systems in ways that could impact our ability to sell our products profitably, if at all. In the United States in recent years, new legislation has been proposed at the federal and state levels that would effect major changes in the healthcare system. In addition, new regulations and interpretations of existing healthcare statutes and regulations are frequently adopted. The potential for adoption of these proposals affects or will affect our ability to raise capital, obtain additional collaborators and market our products. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the future sale of our products due to the trend toward managed health care, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by future healthcare reforms. 49 Table of Contents We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that is inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims if our stents cause, or merely appear to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers, third-party strategic collaborators or others selling our products. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. In addition, if any product candidates that we may develop are approved for marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims against us even if the apparent injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedure and related processes to implant our coronary stents into patients. If these medical personnel are not properly trained or are negligent, the therapeutic effect of our stents may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury that is caused by the activities of our suppliers, such as those who provide us with cobalt chromium tubing for our stents, those that laser cut our stents or those that provide the polymer incorporated into our stents, may be the basis for a claim against us. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit clinical trial volunteers or result in reduced acceptance of our products in the market. If we initiate a product recall our ability to generate revenue will be significantly impaired. There is a possibility that defects in the structure or manufacture of our CoStar stent might necessitate a product recall. A recall could significantly impair our ability to generate revenue and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. In addition, any claims arising out of a recall with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations involve hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous chemicals. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local regulations relating to the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials. We generally contract with third parties for the disposal of such substances. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future environmental and safety regulations. If an accident or contamination occurred, we would likely incur significant costs associated with civil penalties or criminal fines and in complying with environmental laws and regulations. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulation may impair our research, development or production efforts. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm attesting to and reporting on these assessments. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC. If we cannot favorably assess, or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reports may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Anti-takeover defenses that we have in place could prevent or frustrate attempts to change our direction or management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and applicable provisions of Delaware law may make it more difficult for or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors, so that not all members of our board may be elected at one time; • set limitations on the removal of directors; • limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of our directors, which would otherwise permit less than a majority of stockholders to elect directors; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • provide our board of directors the ability to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with certain persons who own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or any of our associates or affiliates who at any time in the past three years have owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may have the effect of entrenching our management team and may deprive you of the opportunity to sell your shares to potential acquirers at a premium over prevailing prices. This potential inability to obtain a control premium could reduce the price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and are able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Our executive officers, current directors and holders of five percent or more of our common stock, as of December 31, 2005, beneficially owned approximately 34.6% of our common stock. The interests of these stockholders may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. 51 Table of Contents If our stock price is volatile, purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price is likely to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for small healthcare companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price they paid for our common stock. There are many events that may influence the market price for our common stock, including: • results of our clinical trials; • developments or disputes concerning patents or other intellectual property rights; • litigation developments, including developments in our patient litigations; • competition in the drug-eluting stent market; • failure of our CoStar stent, to achieve commercial success in the European Union; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • ability to manufacture our products to commercial standards; • public concern over our products; • the departure of key personnel; • future sales of our common stock; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, from time to time, we publicly announce (including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) the estimated timing of the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones include the enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, the release of data from our clinical trials and other clinical and regulatory events, including the submission to the FDA of a PMA for our CoStar stent. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, our stock price may decline. In addition, during the course of our legal proceedings and lawsuits, we may publicly announce the results of hearings, motions, and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our stock. A decline in the market price of our common stock could cause you to lose some or all of your investment and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees and raise capital. In addition, stockholders may initiate securities class action lawsuits if the market price of our stock drops significantly, which may cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. As of February 28, 2006, we had 33,808,337 outstanding shares of common stock. Of these shares, all of the 6,900,000 shares sold in our initial public offering were freely tradeable without restriction or further registration unless purchased by our affiliates. Of the remaining 26,908,337 shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2006, 26,756,023 shares were immediately eligible for sale in the public market, subject in some cases to the volume, manner of sale and other limitations under Rule 144 or Rule 52 Table of Contents 701 and vesting in the case of early exercised options; and 152,314 shares will become eligible for sale in the public market under Rule 144 from time to time upon expiration of their respective holding periods. We have filed a registration statement covering the shares of common stock that are authorized for issuance under our stock option plans and employee stock purchase plan, which can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions on our affiliates. In addition, certain holders of our common stock that are parties to our investor rights agreement have rights with respect to the registration of their shares of common stock with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If we register their shares of common stock, these holders can immediately sell their shares in the public market without restriction. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or other securities, and we currently do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our stockholders will not realize a return on their investment unless the trading price of our common stock appreciates. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 