Item 1A. Risk Factors It is important to carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Form 10-K or in other documents referred to in this Form 10-K in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair business operations. Our future success depends on the timely introduction of new products and the acceptance of these new products in the marketplace. Rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions are typical for the markets we serve. Our future success will depend in large part on continuing to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner that address evolving market requirements. We believe successful new product introductions provide a significant competitive advantage because customers make an investment of time in selecting and learning to use new products and are reluctant to switch thereafter. To the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products, we may lose market share to our competitors, which may be difficult to regain. Any inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new products could materially damage our business. In the past we have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, delays in developing and introducing products. We cannot assure you that we will keep pace with the rapid rate of change in life sciences or clinical diagnostic research, or that our new products will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of new products include: · availability, quality and price relative to competitive products; · the timing of introducing the product relative to competitive products; · customers’ opinions of the product’s utility; · citation of the product in published research; and · general trends in life sciences and clinical diagnostics research. The markets for our products are extremely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If we fail to compete effectively, our business may suffer. The markets for our products are highly competitive. We compete with many other suppliers of life sciences research products and clinical diagnostic products. Many of our competitors have greater financial, operational and sales and marketing resources and more experience in research and development than we do. These competitors and other companies may have developed or could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. Competition in our markets is primarily driven by: · product performance, features and reliability; · price; · timing of product introductions; · ability to develop, maintain and protect proprietary products and technologies; · sales and distribution capabilities; 9 · technical support and service; and · breadth of product line. If a competitor develops or acquires superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our products, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our competitors have in the past and may in the future compete by lowering prices. We may respond by lowering our prices, which could reduce revenues and profits. Conversely, failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may damage our market share. In addition, we must continually adapt to new marketing and distribution trends in order to compete effectively. We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to make sales to customers who have previously purchased products from our competitors. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, our competitive position may suffer. We may be prevented from selling some of our products if our existing license agreements are terminated. Approximately 40% of our product sales in 2006 were attributable to products sold pursuant to license agreements. If we lose the rights to use a patented technology, we may be forced to stop selling some of our products or redesign our products and may lose significant sources of revenues. In addition, potential competitors could license technologies that we fail to license. Losing a significant license could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our licenses include: · a license from Applera Corporation (which license was assigned to Applera from Hoffman La Roche and Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. in 2005) granting us, among other rights, the right to manufacture, promote and sell certain products for use in the research field in a process referred to as the “PCR process;” and · a license from Applied Biosystems, which grants us rights to manufacture, promote and sell thermal cyclers (certain laboratory instruments capable of generating and maintaining specific temperatures for a defined period of time) under certain patents for use in the research field. Applera may terminate its license agreement (1) for cause, (2) if certain parties acquire more than 50% of the voting stock of our subsidiary that is a party to the agreement, and (3) in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency. Since mid-2003 and through late 2005, we withheld royalty payments to Applera under this license agreement pending further evaluation of a potential overpayment of royalties paid to Applera in prior periods. During that period, we continued to record estimated quarterly royalties payable under this license agreement and report these amounts to Applera. We believe that we determine the royalties we calculate and accrue such royalties in accordance with the terms of this patent license agreement. However, our royalty calculations are subject to review by Applera. Our financial position or results of operations could be materially affected if the parties determine that the royalties differ significantly from the amounts we have recorded. Additionally, there can be no assurances that we will recover any overpayment in royalties paid in prior periods. The U.S. patents that covered the PCR process underlying this royalty obligation expired in March 2005. Certain of the corresponding foreign patents expired in 2006, while others expire in 2007. Upon expiration of these patents outside of the United States, we will no longer be required to pay royalties under these patents on future product sales. The agreement with Applied Biosystems may be terminated (1) for cause, (2) upon the change in control of our subsidiary that is a party to the license agreement, and (3) in the event of our bankruptcy or insolvency. 10 We do not anticipate that either of these license agreements will terminate in the near future. Our licenses typically subject us to various commercialization, sublicensing and other material obligations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could lose important rights under a license, such as the right to exclusivity in a specified market. In some cases, we could also lose all rights under a license. In addition, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including the invalidity or unenforceability of the licensed patent. We typically do not receive significant indemnification under such arrangements from a licensor against third party claims of intellectual property infringement. Because our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in future periods, our stock price may decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. In particular, we have historically seen slower sales in the fourth quarter as a result of reduced purchases by academic and research institutions as well as the closing of such facilities during the holiday period. Our revenues are unpredictable and may also fluctuate due to changes in demand for our products, delays in developing and introducing new products and new product introductions by our competitors. A high proportion of our costs are fixed, due in part to significant research and development costs. Thus, small declines in revenue could disproportionately affect operating results in a quarter and the price of our common stock may decline. Moreover, a variety of factors may affect our ability to make accurate forecasts regarding our operating results. Because of these factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could also cause our stock price to decline. Our founder, chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer and president exerts considerable control over our business. As of December 31, 2006, Joseph A. Sorge, M.D., our founder, chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer and president, beneficially owned approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Dr. Sorge controls all matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combinations. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing transactions resulting in our change of control, including transactions where stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. We depend substantially on key employees, and losing the services of any of our key employees or failing to hire qualified employees could seriously damage our business. To a large degree, we depend on our founder, chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer and president, Joseph A. Sorge, M.D. Dr. Sorge has significant expertise in the life sciences research market and has been instrumental in establishing and executing our business plan. Losing Dr. Sorge’s services could have a material adverse effect on our business. Dr. Sorge has an existing employment agreement with us, which expires in June 2007, subject to automatic one year renewals unless either party provides timely notice of non-renewal. We maintain directors and officers insurance for the benefit of our officers and directors. In the second quarter of 2006, we purchased a key man life insurance policy insuring Dr. Sorge with a face value of $10.0 million. Because our products and services are highly technical in nature, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop and market our products and provide our services. As such, our future success also will depend in large part on the continued service of our key scientific and management personnel, including research and development, customer service, marketing and sales staffs. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other 11 companies throughout our industry. We do not generally enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue their employment for any period of time. Any failure on our part to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals could seriously damage our business. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to operate our business, obtain additional financing and pursue other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $3.8 million of outstanding indebtedness related to industrial revenue bonds. In addition, we have a credit agreement with a lender but due to a default under the credit agreement at September 30, 2006 the lender has terminated the revolving credit facility portion of the credit agreement. There was no outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility since December 2005. Our existing or future indebtedness could have negative consequences for us, including the following: · we will need a portion of our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future; · payments of our indebtedness will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for our operations and future business opportunities; · we may have greater relative debt burdens than our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · our debt level may make us more vulnerable than our competitors to a downturn in our business or the economy in general; and · there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing. We may not have financing for future capital requirements, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Although historically our cash flow from operations has been sufficient to satisfy working capital, capital expenditure and research and development requirements, in the future we may need to incur additional debt or issue equity in order to fund these requirements as well as to fully pay outstanding judgments or litigation settlements or make acquisitions and other investments. Our senior credit facility restricts our ability to incur new debt and our revolving credit facility has recently been terminated. While we are seeking to obtain a new senior lender there is no assurance we will be able to obtain new senior financing on acceptable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain additional debt or equity financing on acceptable terms or if we are limited with respect to incurring additional debt or issuing equity, we may be unable to address gaps in our product offerings or improve our technology, particularly through strategic acquisitions or investments. We may need to raise substantial amounts of money to fund a variety of future activities integral to the development of our business, including, but not limited to, the following: · for research and development to successfully develop additional products; · to file and prosecute patent applications and defend and assert patents to protect our technology; · to retain qualified employees, particularly in light of intense competition for qualified scientists; · to manufacture additional products ourselves or through third parties; · to acquire new technologies, products or companies; and · to pay outstanding judgments or to fund litigation settlements. 12 If we raise funds through the issuance of debt or equity, any debt securities or preferred stock issued will have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock in the event of a liquidation. The terms of the debt securities may impose restrictions on our operations. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, this issuance would dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders. We expect to fund future acquisitions in part by issuing additional equity. If the price of our equity is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies. Our inability to secure and maintain intellectual property protection for our products and technologies could adversely affect our ability to compete. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop, maintain and protect proprietary products and technologies. We file patent applications in the United States and selectively in foreign countries as part of our strategy to protect our proprietary products and technologies. However, patents provide only limited protection of our intellectual property. The assertion of patent protection involves complex legal and factual determinations and is therefore uncertain and expensive. We cannot provide assurances that patents will be granted with respect to any of our pending patent applications, that the scope of any of our patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection, or that we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Our issued patents, or third party patents that we license, could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented. This could result in our patent rights failing to create an effective competitive barrier. Losing a significant patent or failing to get a patent to issue from a pending patent application that we consider significant could have a material adverse effect on our business. The laws governing the scope of patent coverage in the United States and abroad continue to evolve, particularly in the life sciences area. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as United States laws. We hold patents only in selected countries. Therefore, third parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in countries in which we do not have patent protection. We give our customers the right to use some of our products for research purposes only under certain licenses. These licenses could be contested. Therefore, no assurances can be given that we would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce these license limitations in a cost-effective manner. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and third parties. However, these agreements might be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. Also, our trade secrets might become known to a third party through means other than by breach of its confidentiality agreements, or they could be independently developed by our competitors. If our trade secrets become known, our business and competitive position could be adversely affected. We are currently, and could in the future be, subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, and other legal actions, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against the claims currently asserted against us and intend to defend them vigorously. However, the outcome of legal actions is inherently uncertain, and we cannot be sure that we will prevail in any of these actions. An adverse determination in some of our current legal actions, particularly the cases described below, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. These products could be developed without knowledge of previously filed patent applications that mature into patents that cover some aspect of these technologies. In addition, our belief that our products do not infringe the technology covered by valid and enforceable patents could be successfully challenged by third parties. We have from time to time been notified that we may be infringing patents and other intellectual property rights of 13 others. Also, in the course of our business, we may from time to time have access to confidential or proprietary information of third parties, and these parties could bring a claim against us asserting that we had misappropriated their technologies and had improperly incorporated such technologies into our products. Due to these factors, there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation affecting our business. We have been made a party to litigation involving intellectual property matters. Such actions currently include the litigations described in the following paragraphs, some of which, if determined adversely, could have a material adverse effect on us. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain these licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms. We have been involved in significant patent disputes with third parties, a number of which remain unresolved. For example, we are involved in litigation with Invitrogen Corporation regarding patents relating to certain enzymes and competent cell products. The case went to trial on July 17, 2006, and on July 25, 2006, the jury returned a verdict that one such patent was valid and that Stratagene’s infringement of the patent was willful. The jury denied Invitrogen’s request for lost profits damages in the amount of $32 million dollars but returned a verdict for a reasonable royalty of approximately $7.9 million, based on a 15% royalty rate. On October 31, 2006, the district court trebled a portion of the $7.9 million that was related to sales made prior to November 2, 2001 for a total award of $16.2 million plus attorneys’ fees and costs in an amount to be determined by the district court and pre-judgment interest. On November 15, 2006, we filed a supersedeas bond in the amount of $11.5 million in order to permit us to appeal the judgment of the district court without being subject to collection activities by Invitrogen. The appeal bond is secured by $11.5 million of cash in an interest-bearing restricted account. In January 2007, the judge in the Federal District Court ruled on the allowable attorneys’ fees and court costs in the case, which totaled $2.1 million. The court also ruled that a $12.2 million supersedeas bond was appropriate in this case. We increased the bond amount to $12.2 million and funded the additional bond collateral from our existing cash balances in January 2007. As of December 31, 2006, we have accrued $19.6 million related to this verdict, which is comprised of damages of $16.2 million plus attorneys’ fees and costs of approximately $2.1 million and pre-judgment interest of approximately $1.3 million. Post-judgment interest at the rate of approximately 5.05% compounded annually will accrue unless the judgment is reversed. If we are ultimately required to pay out all or a portion of the $19.6 million of damages accrued for this matter upon an adverse judgment rendered by the court and affirmed on appeal, it would negatively impact our cash position. We currently have the ability to pay such damage award with our existing cash resources. We are also involved in litigation with Applera Corporation regarding a patent that Applera alleges is infringed by our real-time PCR instrumentation and certain related reagents. In November 2004, we received notice of a patent infringement suit filed by Applera against us and other parties for alleged infringement of United States patent no. 6,814,934. Since that time, the other parties have settled out-of-court with Applera. The details of those settlements are not known by Stratagene. Applera is seeking an outcome that would require Stratagene to license the Applera technology. Applera had also filed an infringement action against us in the Dusseldorf District Court in Germany relating to EP patent 0 872 562, the European counterpart of the ‘934 patent. On November 10, 2006, we filed our response to the complaint. The Dusseldorf District Court is currently scheduled to conduct a trial of this action in May 2007. The outcome of the trial is uncertain but if the Court were to find that we infringe the patent, the Court could enjoin us from further sales of our instruments in Germany. An estimate of the possible loss or range of loss cannot be made at this time and we are unable to determine whether the outcome of the litigation could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows in any future period. In addition, we are involved in litigation in the Wisconsin Federal District Court with Third Wave Technologies regarding patents relating to certain assays for the detection of nucleic acids. In a trial in 14 August 2005, the jury returned a verdict that the Third Wave patents-in-suit were valid and infringed by us, for monetary damages in the amount of $5.3 million, and that our infringement was willful. Based on the jury’s verdict, the district court permanently enjoined us from further infringement. The district court awarded Third Wave treble damages of $15.9 million, attorneys’ fees and costs in an amount of $4.2 million, pre-judgment interest of $0.5 million and $0.1 million of additional court costs. We posted a $21.0 million civil supersedeas bond to stay payment of the judgment of the district court, and filed an appeal to the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals. In May 2005, we filed a lawsuit in Delaware against Third Wave for infringement of certain Stratagene patents. In January 2007, we reached an out-of-court settlement with Third Wave for $10.75 million. Stratagene paid Third Wave $10.75 million in cash as full satisfaction for the judgment. The companies also have agreed to stay any further litigation for nine months. Stratagene also dismissed without prejudice Stratagene’s lawsuit against Third Wave in the U.S. Court in Delaware. Stratagene and Third Wave have also agreed to a process to resolve that case or any other disputes through an agreement that enables either company to elect to arbitrate a patent dispute or to resolve it through a royalty-bearing license. As result of the settlement, we adjusted our accrual from $20.7 million to $10.75 million at December 31, 2006. The settlement payment was made with funds from the $21.0 million appeal bond in February 2007. We are the plaintiff in litigation with Invitrogen Corporation regarding one of our patents relating to polymerase blend products and a defendant in litigation with Invitrogen related to patents relating to RNase H minus reverse transcriptase products. As part of the patent infringement claims in these matters, each party seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief and attorneys’ fees. As stated above, the outcome of any such litigation or appeal is inherently uncertain. These cases are described in further detail in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Part I of this report. The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with these cases is significant. There can be no assurance that these matters will be resolved favorably, that we will continue to be able to sell the products in question or other products as a result, or that any monetary or other damages assessed against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Even a successful outcome may take years to achieve and the costs associated with such litigation, in terms of dollars spent and diversion of management time and resources, could seriously harm our business. Moreover, if a third party claims an intellectual property right to technology that we use, we may be forced to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, pay license fees, pay damages for past infringement or cease certain activities. Under these circumstances, we may attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property, but we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may spend resources on research and development projects without being able to achieve an adequate return, if any, on our investment. It is important for us to continue to invest heavily in research and development. However, because we compete in a relatively new and constantly evolving market, we may pursue research and development projects that do not result in viable commercial products. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, terminate research efforts in a particular area after we have made substantial initial funding commitments in that area. Any failure to translate research and development expenditures into successful new product introductions could have an adverse effect on our business. Our business could suffer if we fail to manage our growth effectively. A significant portion of our historical revenue growth is attributable to internal product development. We are one of the smaller companies in our industry, and therefore particularly dependent on internal invention and product development to replace older products in our product line. Our ability to achieve 15 our expansion objectives and to manage our growth effectively depends upon a variety of factors, including our ability to internally develop products, to attract and retain skilled employees, to successfully position and market our products and to identify and acquire technologies and intellectual property rights from third parties. In addition, we face significant challenges and risks in building and managing our sales team, including managing geographically dispersed sales efforts and adequately training our sales people in the use and benefits of our products. To accommodate our growth and compete effectively, we will be required to improve our information systems, create additional procedures and controls and expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. Our future success will depend in part on the ability of current and future management personnel to operate effectively, both independently and as a group. We cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Our stock price could be adversely affected if we are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. Item 308 of Regulation S-K promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that public companies annually evaluate the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and include a management report assessing the effectiveness of such internal control over financial reporting in all annual reports. Item 308 of Regulation S-K also requires that the independent accountants of public companies attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of its internal control over financial reporting. The initial compliance date with respect to these requirements depends on whether a company is an “accelerated filer” as determined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. An “accelerated filer” must begin to comply with the rules regarding management’s report on internal control over financial reporting for its first fiscal year ending on or after November 15, 2004. The first management report for a “non-accelerated filer” must be provided for fiscal years ending on or after Dec. 15, 2007, with the first auditor’s report on internal control due one year later. “Accelerated filer” status is measured as of the end of each fiscal year and is determined in part on whether the aggregate market value of the common equity of a company held by non-affiliates of such company is $75.0 million or more measured as of the last business day of the company’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter. We are not an “accelerated filer” as of December 31, 2006 because the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2006 was not equal to or greater than $75.0 million. However, we will not be able to determine if we will be subject to the rules regarding the auditor’s report on internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 until June 30, 2007. If the aggregate market value of our common stock held by our non-affiliates as of June 30, 2007 is equal to or greater than $75.0 million, then we will become an “accelerated filer” effective as of December 31, 2007 and will be required to comply with the rules regarding management’s report and the auditor’s report on internal control over financial reporting for fiscal 2007. Conversely, if the aggregate market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2007 is less than $75.0 million, then we will continue to be a “non-accelerated filer” for fiscal 2007 and will be required to comply with the rules regarding management’s report on internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and the first auditor’s report will be required for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. Notwithstanding the extension of this compliance date, we are currently making efforts to prepare ourselves to be able to comply with such requirements. These efforts include documenting, evaluating the design, and testing the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During this process, we expect to make improvements in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting, including further formalization of policies and procedures, improved segregation of duties and additional monitoring of controls. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control 16 system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been, or will, be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Controls can also be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting as ineffective. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which, among other things, could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. The price of our common stock is expected to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may occur, among other reasons, in response to: · quarterly fluctuations in our operating and earnings per share results; · technological innovations or new product introductions by us or our competitors; · delays in developing and introducing new products; · disputes concerning patents, licenses or other proprietary rights; · changes in earnings estimates by equity and market research analysts; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders; · loss of key personnel; and · securities class actions or other litigation affecting us or other companies in our industry. Any failure to meet analysts’ expectations could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot predict the extent to which investors’ interest in us will lead to a liquid trading market in our common stock. 17 Future sales of currently outstanding shares of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 22.5 million shares of common stock outstanding. We have entered into a registration rights agreement with Dr. Sorge and certain of his affiliates pursuant to which, at the request of Dr. Sorge and subject to specified conditions, we will file a registration statement under the Securities Act covering 2,000,000 shares of our common stock held by Dr. Sorge and specified trusts and partnerships controlled by Dr. Sorge. Dr. Sorge and such trusts and partnerships are also entitled to register the remaining approximately 11.2 million shares of our common stock held by them in specified situations. The shares held by Dr. Sorge and such trusts and partnerships may also be sold from time to time in the public market subject to the requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, on June 8, 2006, Dr. Sorge established a stock trading plan in accordance with the guidelines of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. SEC Rule 10b5-1 allows executive officers, directors and other insiders to individually adopt pre-arranged, structured stock trading plans when they are not in possession of material non-public information. Once these plans are adopted, the officers and directors have no discretion over the timing, price or terms of any sales made pursuant to such plans. The transactions under the plan will be disclosed publicly through Form 4 filings and will be subject to the restrictions and filing requirements mandated by Rule 144 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933. Under Dr. Sorge’s 10b5-1 plan, Dr. Sorge may sell shares of our common stock at prevailing market prices (but not below a predetermined minimum price of $9.00 per share and subject to other restrictions). The total number of shares subject to Dr. Sorge’s plan is 876,000. These sales are expected to take place periodically on a monthly basis through June 2007. The sale by our current stockholders of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sales may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. We have also registered the shares of common stock that we may issue from time to time under our employee benefits plans. As a result, these shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. If any of our stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Reductions in research and development budgets or government funding may impact our sales. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of our customers could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, spending priorities and institutional budgetary policies. Our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions or government and private laboratories. A substantial portion of our sales have been to researchers at universities, government laboratories and private foundations whose funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies, such as the United States National Institutes of Health. Although we are not aware of any impending reductions in governmental grants, government funding of research and development is subject to the political process and as a result the amount of available funding may decrease. Our sales may be adversely affected if our customers delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals. A reduction in government funding for the National Institutes of Health or other government research agencies could seriously damage our business. In recent years, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have undergone substantial consolidation. Further mergers or corporate consolidations in these industries could cause us to lose existing customers and potential future customers. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have generally raised little money in the past few years, and some are low on funds. Some of these companies 18 have begun to reduce their research and development budgets in recent years. It is possible that these biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies will continue to reduce spending on research and development in the future and some companies may go out of business entirely. In addition, health care reform and other changes in the regulatory environment affecting these industries could have an adverse impact on research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which would negatively impact our business. Our academic customers generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, as determined by the government. Grants have in the past been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, can cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Failure to license new technologies could impair our new product development. In order to meet the needs of our customers, we must develop a broad spectrum of products. To develop a product line, it is sometimes advantageous or necessary to license technologies from third parties. Approximately 40% of our product sales for 2006 were attributable to products manufactured or sold under licenses from third parties. As a result, we believe our ability to license new technologies from third parties is and will continue to be important to our ability to offer new products. From time to time, we are notified or become aware of patents held by third parties that are related to technologies we are selling or may sell in the future. After consideration of these patents, we may attempt to obtain a license for these technologies. We can give no assurances that we will be able to negotiate such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to gain access to technologies necessary to develop new products depends, in part, on our ability to convince third parties that we can successfully commercialize their technologies. We can give no assurances that we will be able to continue to identify new technologies developed by others or that we will be able to negotiate appropriate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may acquire other businesses or form joint ventures that could decrease our profitability, dilute your ownership, increase our debt or cause us to incur significant expense. As part of our business strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions of other complementary businesses and technology licensing arrangements. We also intend to pursue strategic alliances that leverage our core technology and industry experience to expand our product offerings and geographic presence. We have limited experience with respect to acquiring other companies and limited experience with respect to forming collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we were to make any acquisitions, we may not be able to integrate these acquisitions successfully into our existing business and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities. Any future acquisitions we make could also result in large and immediate write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. Integrating an acquired company also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. We may not identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, technology license or strategic alliance. In addition, existing and future collaborations, strategic alliances and joint ventures may be impacted by acquisitions or other factors beyond our control relating to our collaboration, strategic alliance or joint venture partners. 19 Changes in distribution and purchasing methods by our customers may force us to use more expensive marketing and distribution channels. A number of our customers have developed purchasing initiatives to reduce the number of vendors they purchase from in order to lower their supply costs. In some cases, these customers have established agreements with large distributors, which include discounts and the distributors’ direct involvement with the purchasing process. These activities may force us to supply these large distributors with our products at a discount to continue to reach our customers. For similar reasons, many of our larger customers, including the government, have requested and may in the future request special pricing arrangements, including blanket purchase agreements. To date, we do not believe that these special pricing arrangements have had a material effect on either revenues or margins. However, in the future these agreements may limit our pricing flexibility, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we lose one or more of our distributors and cannot arrange suitable alternatives, our business could be adversely affected. Several of our customers have requested that we sell our products through third party, e-commerce web sites. While this trend does not seem to be growing, offering our products through these web sites generally requires us to agree to offer volume-related discounts and pay commissions on the sales made through these web sites to these third party e-commerce providers. Consequently, margins on sales made through these third party web sites would generally be lower than those on sales made through traditional channels. Our business may be harmed as a result of these web sites or other sales methods that may be developed in the future. We rely on third party manufacturers for raw materials and product components. We rely on third party manufacturers to supply many of our raw materials and product components. Some of these components are only available from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, either because the market for these components is too small to support multiple suppliers or because the components are protected by patents, in which case there may only be a single supplier for the covered components. Our reliance on outside vendors generally, and a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers in particular, involves several risks, including: · an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components due to manufacturing capacity constraints, the discontinuance of a product by a third-party manufacturer, or an acquisition of the manufacturer by one of our competitors or other supply constraints; · delays and long lead times in receiving materials from vendors; and · reduced control over quality and pricing of components. If a sole source third party supplier were to go out of business, we might be unable to find a replacement for such source or it might take us several months to be able to make the substance or component internally. If a sole source third party supplier were to be acquired by a competitor, that competitor may elect not to sell to us in the future. Adverse developments affecting our international operations or foreign currency fluctuations could harm our results from operations. Including sales made by our subsidiaries and distributors, our products are currently marketed in over 60 countries throughout the world. Measured in U.S. dollars, our revenue outside the United States for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was approximately 32%. In addition, approximately 19% of our total sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 were for products exported from the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our 20 revenues for the foreseeable future, in part because we intend to expand our international operations. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including: · difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; · more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; · changes in our international distribution network and direct sales force; · potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; · import and export licensing requirements; · longer accounts receivable collection cycles in certain foreign countries; and · potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business could adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. In the past, we have engaged in foreign currency exchange hedging transactions to manage our foreign currency exposure, but we cannot assure you that our future strategies will adequately protect our operating results from the effects of exchange rate fluctuations. Our activities involve hazardous materials and may subject our business to costly environmental liability. We use hazardous materials, including phenol, chloroform and ethanol, and radioactive isotopes in connection with our research and development activities, as well as in our manufacturing processes and in evaluating the performance of various products. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination of property or injury to individuals from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We carry insurance for contamination resulting from using hazardous materials with $25,000 limitations per incident with respect to pollution clean-up and removal and radioactive contamination. Additionally, any accident could partially or completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations. We may also have to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Interruptions in our manufacturing operations could adversely impact our ability to effectively operate our business. We maintain manufacturing facilities in Garden Grove, California, in the Austin, Texas area, and in Edinburgh, Scotland. Damage to these facilities due to fire, earthquake or other natural disaster, power loss, unauthorized entry or other events could cause an interruption in producing our products. We do not have or plan to obtain earthquake insurance. In late 1999 and early 2000 we opened a manufacturing facility outside of Austin, Texas and moved 100 jobs to that location. During the transition process, we lost some key personnel who were important to certain manufacturing processes. As a result, we were unable 21 to manufacture certain products for a period of three to six months. Many of the customers who wanted to purchase the affected products during this period switched to other suppliers and we found it difficult to reacquire these customers once we were able to manufacture the products again. Accordingly, we believe that a prolonged interruption in our manufacturing operations could have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively operate our business. We could incur substantial unexpected expenses, experience product returns and suffer damage to our brand and reputation if our biological products and instruments are not properly produced or manufactured. Our biological products and instruments are complex and may be improperly produced or manufactured. In the past, we have voluntarily recalled several of our products. In each case, we identified and corrected the problem. If we need to recall our products, we could experience decreased sales and loss of customers and market share. In addition, a recall would divert managerial and financial resources and could harm our reputation with customers. Our business could suffer if our access to necessary tissue samples is restricted or ethical concerns surrounding the use of genetic information become widespread. We require access to human and other tissue samples and other biological materials to continue to develop our products. We compete with many other companies for these materials and may not be able to obtain or maintain access to these materials on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding confidentiality and the appropriate use of the resulting information. Governmental regulation in the United States and foreign countries could limit access to, or use of, human and other tissue samples or restrict the use of, or regulate, genetic testing. If we lose access to sufficient numbers or sources of tissue samples, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on our customers’ use of the information generated from tissue samples, our business could suffer. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control transactions that stockholders may consider favorable or may impede the ability of the holders of our common stock to change our management. The provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, among other things, authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without stockholder approval. Because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that you favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisition of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or its affiliate crosses the 15 percent ownership threshold. Additionally, because Dr. Sorge owns approximately 59% of the Company’s outstanding common stock, he controls all matters requiring approval of our stockholders. As a result, among other things, Dr. Sorge must approve any merger or other business combination related to our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 