Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company and its subsidiary, American River Bank, conduct business in an environment that includes certain risks described below which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition, future prospects and stock price. You are also referred to the matters described under the heading “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in Part I, Item 1 and Part II, Item 7 of this report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding factors that may affect the Company’s business. ● We are subject to extensive regulation, which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with laws, rules and regulations applicable to the conduct of our business. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. These laws, rules and regulations may be modified, or other new laws, rules or regulations, may be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, or restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans, reduce service charge income on deposits, or further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, or interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or future prospects. The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law on July 21, 2010, is expected to have a broad impact on the financial services sector, including significant regulatory and compliance changes. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act requirements will be implemented over an extended period of time and due to the uncertainty associated with the manner in which they will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is not clear. Changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or future prospects. 20 ● Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our business. Dramatic declines have occurred in the housing market over the past twenty-four months resulting in falling home prices and increasing foreclosures. These circumstances along with unemployment and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loan portfolio and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values. These asset write-downs have had a significant impact on the Company’s financial results and ratios, including our net income, earnings per share, return on average equity and return on average assets. Our net income decreased from $7,751,000 in 2008 and $1,586,000 in 2009, to $476,000 in 2010; our earnings per share decreased from $1.30 per share in 2008 and $0.26 per share in 2009, to $0.05 per share in 2010; our return on average equity decreased from 12.39% in 2008 and 2.44% in 2009, to 0.53% in 2010; and our return on average assets decreased from 1.32% in 2008 and 0.28% in 2009, to 0.08% in 2010. The decrease in our financial results and ratios could put downward pressure on our stock price. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. ● Worsening economic conditions could adversely affect our business. The economic conditions in the United States in general and within California and in our operating markets may continue to deteriorate. Unemployment nationwide and in California has increased significantly through this economic downturn and is anticipated to increase or remain elevated for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, the unemployment rate nationwide was 9.4% compared to 10.0% at December 31, 2009 and 7.4% at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2010, the unemployment rate in California was 12.5%, up from 12.3% at December 31, 2009 and 8.7% at December 31, 2008. The unemployment rate in the Company’s primary markets of Sacramento, Sonoma, and Amador Counties was 12.6%, 10.0% and 13.1% at December 31, 2010, compared to 12.2%, 10.3% and 12.5% at December 31, 2009, and 8.7%, 7.0% and 9.3% at December 31, 2008, respectively. Availability of credit and consumer spending, real estate values, and consumer confidence have all declined markedly. The volatility of the capital markets and the credit, capital and liquidity problems confronting the U.S. financial system have not been resolved despite massive government expenditures and legislative efforts to stabilize the U.S. financial system. These conditions may not improve or be resolved in the foreseeable future. The Bank conducts banking operations principally in Northern California. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in the economic conditions in Northern California. Our business results are dependent in large part upon the business activity, population, income levels, deposits and real estate activity in Northern California, and continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect upon us. In addition, California is currently experiencing significant budgetary and fiscal difficulties, which includes terminating and furloughing California government employees. The businesses operating in California and, in particular in the City of Sacramento, depend on these government employees for business, and reduced spending activity by these government employees could have a material impact on the success or failure of these businesses, some of which are current or could become future customers of the Bank. The economic conditions in the United States in general and in the State of California and within our operating markets may further deteriorate and such deterioration may materially and adversely affect us. A further deterioration in economic conditions locally, regionally or nationally could result in a further economic downturn in Northern California with the following consequences, any of which could further adversely affect our business: ● loan delinquencies and defaults may increase; ● problem assets and foreclosures may increase; ● demand for our products and services may decline; ● low cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease; ● collateral for loans may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral as sources of repayment of existing loans; ● foreclosed assets may not be able to be sold; ● volatile securities market conditions could adversely affect valuations of investment portfolio assets; and ● reputational risk may increase due to public sentiment regarding the banking industry. 21 ● Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2010, our non-performing loans and leases were 6.52% of total loans and leases compared to 5.46% at December 31, 2009 and 1.49% at December 31, 2008, and at December 31, 2010, our non-performing assets (which include foreclosed real estate) to total assets were 4.36%, compared to 3.95% at December 31, 2009 and 1.49% at December 31, 2008. The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of non-performing loans and leases was 33.6% as of December 31, 2010 compared to 37.7% as of December 31, 2009 and 94.8% at December 31, 2008. Non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur losses relating to an increase in non-performing assets. We generally do not record interest income on non-performing loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of non-performing assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile, which could result in a request to reduce our level of non-performing assets. When we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. We may experience increases in non-performing assets and the disposition of such non-performing assets may adversely affect our profitability. ● Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A tightening of the credit markets or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could adversely affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan and lease payments, we also rely on alternative funding sources including unsecured borrowing lines with correspondent banks, secured borrowing lines with the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and public time certificates of deposits. Our ability to access these sources could be impaired by deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets. In the event such a disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be adversely affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit or potentially raise the cost of the funds available to us. ● We have a concentration risk in real estate related loans. At December 31, 2010, $265.1 million, or 76.5% of our total loan and lease portfolio, consisted of real estate related loans. Of that amount, $216.1 million, or 81.5%, consisted of commercial real estate, $16.0 million, or 6.0% consisted of commercial and residential construction loans (including land acquisition and development) and $33.0 million, or 12.5%, consisted of residential mortgages and residential multi-family real estate. Substantially all of our real property collateral is located in our operating markets in Northern California. The continuing trend of deteriorating economic conditions in California and in our operating markets has contributed to an overall decline in commercial and residential real estate values. A continuing substantial decline in commercial and residential real estate values in our primary market areas could occur as a result of worsening economic conditions or other events including natural disasters such as earthquakes, fires, and floods. Such a decline in values could have an adverse impact on us by limiting repayment of defaulted loans through sale of commercial and residential real estate collateral and by a likely increase in the number of defaulted loans to the extent that the financial condition of our borrowers is adversely affected by such a decline in values. At December 31, 2010, our residential construction loans (including land acquisition and development loans) were just $12.3 million, or 3.5% of our total loans and leases, and these loans were comprised of 32.5% owner-occupied loans and 67.5% non-owner-occupied loans. Construction, land acquisition and development lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced on the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, non-owner-occupied construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the completion of the project and the ability of the borrower to sell the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or the guarantor to repay the principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, we may not be able to recover all of the unpaid balance and accrued interest related to the loan, as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. The adverse effects of the foregoing matters upon our real estate portfolio could necessitate a material increase in the provision for loan and lease losses. 22 ● Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance, but its allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan and lease losses. In addition, future provisions for loan and lease losses could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s and therefore our operating results. The adequacy of the Bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses is based on prior experience, as well as an evaluation of the risks in the current portfolio. The amount of realizable future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in the local and general California real estate market and operating environment, as well as interest rates, employment levels and other economic factors that may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of the examination process, review the Bank’s loans and leases and allowance for loan and lease losses, as well as management’s policies and procedures for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses. We believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses policies are effective and that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses. However, the Bank may have to further increase the allowance for loan and lease losses as a result of the effects of continued deterioration of economic conditions nationally and in the operating markets in which the Bank conducts business and/or as a result of changes in regulation or accounting methodologies. ● Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. As of December 31, 2010, our largest outstanding commercial business loan and largest outstanding commercial real estate loan amounted to $2.5 million and $5.9 million, respectively. At such date, our commercial real estate loans amounted to $216.1 million, or 62.4% of our total loan and lease portfolio, and our commercial business loans amounted to $58.3 million, or 16.8% of our total loan and lease portfolio. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans generally are considered riskier than single-family residential loans because they have larger balances to a single borrower or group of related borrowers. Commercial real estate and commercial business loans involve risks because the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans typically depends primarily on the successful operation of the businesses or the properties securing the loans. Most of the Bank’s commercial real estate and commercial business loans are made to small business or middle market customers who may have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. ● The Company has entered into an informal agreement with regulators and noncompliance could have an adverse effect upon the Company. In February 2010, in connection with the Bank’s regularly scheduled 2009 FDIC examination, the Bank entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the “Memorandum”) with the FDIC and the California Commissioner of Financial Institutions. The Memorandum requires compliance with certain actions specified in the Memorandum. In the event of noncompliance, regulatory enforcement actions could be imposed that could have a material adverse effect upon the Company. See “Other Events” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding the Memorandum. 23 ● Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our net interest income. It is expected that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “margin” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margins are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. We may be unable to minimize our interest rate risk. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest margin, asset quality, and loan origination volume. ● Governmental monetary policies and intervention to stabilize the U.S. financial system may affect our business and are beyond our control. The business of banking is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. Such policies are beyond our control. We are particularly affected by the policies established by the Federal Reserve Board in relation to the supply of money and credit in the United States. The instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve Board can be used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits, and this can and does have a material effect on our business. Recent legislation including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), signed into law by President Bush on October 3, 2008, and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009, each included programs intended to help stabilize the U.S. financial system. However, it is uncertain whether such legislation will sufficiently resolve the volatility of capital and credit markets or improve capital and liquidity problems confronting the financial system. The failure of the EESA or ARRA to mitigate or eliminate such volatility and problems affecting the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could limit our access to capital or sources of liquidity in amounts and at times necessary to conduct operations in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. ● The Bank faces strong competition from banks, financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services, which could adversely affect our business. Increased competition in our market may result in reduced loans and deposits or the rates charged or paid on these instruments and adversely affect our net interest margin. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer similar banking services to those that are offered by the Bank in its service area. These competitors include national and super-regional banks, finance companies, investment banking and brokerage firms, credit unions, government-assisted farm credit programs, other community banks and technology-oriented financial institutions offering online services. In particular, the Bank’s competitors include several major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits than we do and are thereby better able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loans and deposits, as well as the range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances, such as Internet-based banking services that cross traditional geographic bounds, enable more companies to provide financial services. If the Bank is unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to maintain our historical levels of loans and leases and deposits or our net interest margin. 24 ● Our operations are dependent upon key personnel. Our future prospects are and will remain highly dependent on our directors, executive officers and other key personnel. Our success will, to some extent, depend on the continued service of our directors and continued employment of the executive officers, in addition to our ability to attract and retain experienced banking professionals to serve us and the Bank in other key positions. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on our business. ● Technology implementation problems or computer system failures could adversely affect us. Our future growth prospects will be highly dependent on the ability of the Bank to implement changes in technology that affect the delivery of banking services such as the increased demand for computer access to bank accounts and the availability to perform banking transactions electronically. The Bank’s ability to compete will depend upon its ability to continue to adapt technology on a timely and cost-effective basis to meet such demands. In addition, our business and operations and those of the Bank could be susceptible to adverse effects from computer failures, communication and energy disruption, and activities such as fraud of unethical individuals with the technological ability to cause disruptions or failures of the Bank’s data processing system. ● Information security breaches or other technological difficulties could adversely affect us. We cannot be certain that the continued implementation of safeguards will eliminate the risk of vulnerability to technological difficulties or failures or ensure the absence of a breach of information security. The Bank will continue to rely on the services of various vendors who provide data processing and communication services to the banking industry. Nonetheless, if information security is compromised or other technology difficulties or failures occur at the Bank or with one of our vendors, information may be lost or misappropriated, services and operations may be interrupted and the Bank could be exposed to claims from its customers as a result. ● Our controls over financial reporting and related governance procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. We maintain controls and procedures to mitigate risks such as processing system failures or errors and customer or employee fraud, and we maintain insurance coverage for certain of these risks. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and provides only reasonable, not absolute, certainly that the objectives of the system will be met. Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by our internal controls, are not insured against, or are in excess of our insurance limits. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures, could have an adverse effect on our business. ● We may not be successful in raising additional capital needed in the future. If additional capital is needed in the future as a result of losses, our business strategy or regulatory requirements, our efforts to raise such additional capital may be unsuccessful or shares sold in the future may be sold at prices or on terms that are not equal to or better than the current market price. The inability to raise additional capital when needed or at prices and terms acceptable to us could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategies. ● The effects of legislation in response to current credit conditions may adversely affect us. Legislation that has or may be passed at the federal level and/or by the State of California in response to current conditions affecting credit markets could cause us to experience higher credit losses if such legislation reduces the amount that the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Such legislation could also result in the imposition of limitations upon the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or make foreclosure less economically feasible. Such events could result in increased loan and lease losses and require a material increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. 25 ● The effects of changes to FDIC insurance coverage limits and assessments are uncertain and increased premiums may adversely affect us. FDIC insurance premium assessments are uncertain and increased premium assessments may adversely affect our earnings. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). Current economic conditions have resulted and may continue to result in bank failures. In such event, the FDIC may take control of failed institutions and guarantee payment from the DIF up to the insured limit for deposits held at such failed institutions. Depending on any future losses that the DIF may suffer due to failed institutions, there may be additional significant premium increases in order to replenish the DIF. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 included a provision for an increase in the amount of deposits insured by the FDIC to $250,000. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, which included the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (the “TAGP”). The TAGP provided unlimited deposit insurance on funds in noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts not otherwise covered by the existing deposit insurance limit of $250,000. All eligible institutions were covered under the TAGP for the first 30 days without incurring any costs. After the initial period, participating institutions were assessed a 10 basis point surcharge on the additional insured deposits through the scheduled end of the program on December 31, 2009. The Bank opted to participate in the TAGP. The FDIC extended the TAGP to December 31, 2010 and increased the annual assessment from 10 to 25 basis points for banks that did not opt-out of the TAGP. Participating banks had until November 2, 2009 to opt-out in order to terminate coverage effective January 1, 2010. The Bank did not opt out of the TAGP. On November 9, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule implementing section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) that made permanent the $250,000 deposit insurance limit per depositor and provides unlimited insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. Beginning December 31, 2010, through December 31, 2012, all noninterest-bearing transaction accounts are fully insured, regardless of the balance of the account, at all FDIC-insured institutions. The unlimited insurance coverage is available to all depositors, including consumers, businesses, and government entities. This unlimited insurance coverage is separate from, and in addition to, the insurance coverage provided to a depositor’s other deposit accounts held at an FDIC-insured institution. It is not clear how depositors will respond regarding the $250,000 per depositor increase in insurance coverage. Despite the increase, some depositors may reduce the amount of deposits held at the Bank if concerns regarding bank failures persist, which could affect the level and composition of the Bank’s deposit portfolio and thereby directly impact the Bank’s funding costs and net interest margin. The Bank’s funding costs may also be adversely affected in the event that the activities of the Federal Reserve Board and the U.S. Treasury, intended to provide liquidity for the banking system and improvement in capital markets, are curtailed or unsuccessful. Such events could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations and thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, the FDIC adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involved adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. The revisions effectively resulted in a range of possible assessments under the risk-based system of 7 to 77.5 basis points. The FDIC also imposed a special assessment of 5 basis points on all insured institutions. This emergency assessment was calculated based on the insured institution’s assets at June 30, 2009 and paid on September 30, 2009. Based on our June 30, 2009 assets subject to the FDIC assessment, the Company was assessed approximately $253,000 for the special assessment. In addition, on November 12, 2009, the FDIC announced a final rule to require most banks to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for 2010, 2011 and 2012. This prepaid amount for the Company was $3,886,000. In addition to permanently increasing the deposit insurance limit for insured deposits to $250,000 per depositor and extending unlimited deposit insurance to non-interest bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act also made other deposit insurance changes which may affect our insurance premium assessments to include (i) amendment of the assessment base used to calculate an insured depository institution’s deposit insurance premiums paid to the DIF by elimination of deposits and substitution of average consolidated total assets less average tangible equity during the assessment period as the revised assessment base; (ii) increasing the minimum designated reserve ratio of the DIF from 1.15 percent to 1.35 percent of the estimated amount of total insured deposits; (iii) eliminating the requirement that the FDIC pay dividends to depository institutions when the reserve ratio exceeds certain thresholds; and (iv) repeal of the prohibition upon the payment of interest on demand deposits to be effective one year after the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. In December 2010, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC increased the reserve ratio of the DIF to 2.0 percent effective January 1, 2011. It is uncertain what effect these changes will have on our future insurance assessments and costs of operations, but any increases in premium assessments or further prepayment of assessments will adversely impact our earnings. 26 ● In the future we may be required to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Our securities portfolio currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. We may continue to observe declines in the fair market value of these securities. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other than temporary impairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, and as of December 31, 2010, we did not recognize any securities as other than temporarily impaired. Future evaluations of the securities portfolio may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these and other holdings. In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco (the “FHLB”), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2010, we held stock in the FHLB totaling $3.5 million. The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB currently distributes cash dividends on its shares, however, this dividend paying practice may not continue. As of December 31, 2010, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. Future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. ● If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with our acquisition of Bank of Amador becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our earnings and capital. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $16.3 million of goodwill on our balance sheet attributable to our merger with Bank of Amador in December 2004. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is not amortized but rather evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of the common stock of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. Future evaluations of goodwill may result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material. ● The effects of terrorism and other events beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. The terrorist actions on September 11, 2001 and thereafter, as well as the current military conflicts in Afghanistan and Iraq, have had significant adverse effects upon the United States economy. Whether terrorist activities in the future and the actions of the United States and its allies in combating terrorism on a worldwide basis will adversely impact us and the extent of such impact is uncertain. Similar events beyond our control including, but not limited to, financial and economic volatility and governmental actions in response, natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, fires, and similar adverse weather occurrences, disruption of power supplies and communications equipment such as telephones, cellular phones, computers, and other forms of electronic equipment or media, and widespread, adverse public health occurrences, may adversely affect our future results of operations by, among other things, disrupting the conduct of our operations and those of our customers, which could result in a reduction in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Bank, increase non-performing loans and the amounts reserved for loan and lease losses, or cause significant declines in our level of deposits. ● Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involves various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of incorporating acquired banks or branches into the Bank, executing cost savings measures, and being unable to profitably deploy funds in an acquisition. 27 ● We may raise additional capital, which could have a dilutive effect on the existing holders of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In December 2009, the Company raised $25.3 million (in gross proceeds) in a public offering of 4,048,000 shares of its common stock at $6.25 per share. Our articles of incorporation, as amended, provide the authority to issue without further shareholder approval, 20,000,000 shares of common stock, no par value per share, of which 9,874,867 shares were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2010. Pursuant to the Company’s 2010 Equity Incentive Plan and its 2000 Stock Option Plan, at December 31, 2010, employees and directors of the Company had outstanding options to purchase 379,571 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2010, 1,447,495 shares of common stock remained available for awards under the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. We frequently evaluate opportunities to access the capital markets taking into account our regulatory capital ratios, financial condition and other relevant considerations, and subject to market conditions, we may take further capital actions. Such actions could include, among other things, the issuance of additional shares of common stock in public or private transactions in order to further increase our capital levels above the requirements for a well-capitalized institution established by the federal bank regulatory agencies as well as other regulatory targets. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for common stock or that represent the right to receive common stock, or the exercise of such securities including, without limitation, securities issued upon exercise of outstanding equity awards under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan or outstanding options under our 2000 Stock Option Plan, could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur. ● The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and this may make it difficult for shareholders to resell shares of common stock they own at times or at prices they find attractive. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility, which, in recent quarters, has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a result, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. This may make it difficult for shareholders to resell shares of common stock they own at times or at prices they find attractive. The low trading volume in our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market means that our shares may have less liquidity than other publicly traded companies. We cannot ensure that the volume of trading in our common shares will be maintained or will increase in the future. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time and which may be beyond our control, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales or offerings of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in the forward-looking statement discussion in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and below. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: ● actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; ● changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our common stock or those of other financial institutions; ● failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; ● speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation, our market area, our competitors or the financial services industry in general; ● strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; ● actions by our current shareholders, including sales of common stock by existing shareholders and/or directors and executive officers; 28 ● fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; ● future sales of our equity, equity-related or debt securities; ● changes in the frequency or amount of dividends or share repurchases; ● proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; ● anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation that involves or affects us; ● trading activities in our common stock, including short-selling; ● domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and ● general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders. ● We may be unable or choose not to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock depends on a variety of factors. On July 27, 2009 we announced suspension of our quarterly dividends, as compared to our quarterly dividends of $0.143 per share declared each quarter since the fourth quarter of 2007. The Company relies on distributions from the Bank in the form of cash dividends in order to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. As a result of an informal agreement entered into by the Bank and its regulators any future cash dividends from the Bank will require prior approval from its regulators. See “Other Events” under Item 7 on page 36 for more information regarding the informal agreement. Cash dividends may or may not be paid in the future since they are subject to regulatory restrictions and to evaluation by our Board of Directors of financial factors including, but not limited to, our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements. ● Anti-takeover provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws and California law could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders) and for holders of our common stock to receive any related takeover premium for their common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of California law that would delay, deter or prevent a change in control of American River Bankshares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 