ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business, Strategy and Operations We have a history of net losses and of being highly leveraged. We may incur additional losses in the future and our operating results have fluctuated and could continue to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis. Also, we may need to obtain further financing or refinance current debt, which may or may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We sustained net losses of $9.8 million and $69.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may incur additional losses in the future while we continue to expend funds to enhance our wireless network, grow our customer base and defend our rights under our affiliation agreements. In addition, our future operating results and cash flows will be subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to many factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include increased costs we may incur in connection with the further development, expansion and upgrade of our PCS network, additional growth to our subscriber base and fluctuations in the demands for our services. We may not achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows. To the extent our quarterly or annual results of operations fluctuate significantly, we may be unable to satisfy our debt obligations. Our inability to satisfy our obligations may result in our restructuring or bankruptcy. We are highly leveraged. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health by, among other things: •increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions; •limiting our ability to obtain any additional financing we may need to operate, develop and expand our business; •limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to service our debt, which reduces the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; •potentially making us more highly leveraged than our competitors, which could decrease our ability to compete in our industry; •making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our senior secured notes and our other debt; and •increasing our cost of borrowing. Additionally, we may need additional borrowings to operate our business or we may have to refinance our current indebtedness at its final maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain needed financing or refinance current debt. The restrictive covenants in our indentures may limit our operating flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in defaults under our indentures even though we may be able to meet our debt service obligations. The indentures governing our senior secured notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions significantly limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, repay junior indebtedness, sell assets, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, engage in sale and leaseback transactions, create liens and engage in certain types of mergers or acquisitions. Any future debt instruments may have similar or more 25 restrictive covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or a continued or prolonged downturn in the economy in general, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, holders of our senior secured notes could declare a default under the terms of the relevant indenture even though we are able to meet debt service obligations and, because our indentures have cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions, could cause all of our debt to become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available, or that we would have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to repay any accelerated debt. Even if we could obtain additional financing, we cannot assure you that the terms would be favorable to us. If we seek to accelerate our subscriber growth, we will incur significant up-front subscriber acquisition expense, which initially will result in reduced levels of cash flows from operating activities as compared to our most recent prior periods. Increasingly we must attract a greater proportion of our new subscribers from our competitors' existing subscriber bases rather than first time purchasers—which often necessitates higher up-front subscriber acquisition expense. In addition, to the extent our subscriber growth includes a higher percentage of sub-prime credit subscribers, our churn and bad debt expense may increase, and also may impair our ability to maintain and increase our revenue and cause a deterioration in our operating margin. Moreover, despite incurring increased sales and marketing expense, we may not succeed in growing our subscriber base. We rely on independent third parties for a sizable percentage of our distribution. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 70% of our gross subscriber additions originated from distribution channels operated by third parties (Sprint co-branded, non-exclusive local third parties, national third party distributors, such as Wal-Mart, Best Buy and RadioShack, and Sprint controlled and other). For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 8% of our gross subscriber additions were generated by RadioShack, while another approximately 19% were generated by three Sprint co-branded dealers, including approximately 14% from one co-branded dealer. Although we believe that utilizing these independent third parties is beneficial to us, it also presents a number of drawbacks, such as limited control. These independent third parties have a significant amount of flexibility in running their operations. Although we can exercise limited control over Sprint co-branded and non-exclusive local third parties through our distribution agreements, we have much less control over national retailers as their agreements are with Sprint. To the extent that these third parties do not perform well, experience financial difficulty, reduce their distribution points or emphasize our competitors' products and services over Sprint PCS products and services, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we receive lower revenue or incur more fees than we anticipate for roaming with Sprint PCS and Sprint roaming partners, our results of operations may be negatively affected. Roaming revenue and expense accounted for a substantial portion of our overall revenue stream and operating expense, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2008. Although we do not receive data roaming revenue from Sprint PCS or pay data roaming expense to Sprint PCS effective January 1, 2008, the majority of our roaming revenue is received when Sprint PCS subscribers based outside our territory use voice and 2G service on our network and the majority of our roaming expense is incurred when Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territories use voice and 2G services on the Sprint network. We also receive roaming revenue when subscribers of Sprint roaming partners (such as Alltel) use voice and data services on our wireless network and incur expense when Sprint subscribers within our territory use voice and data services on the networks of Sprint roaming partners. Since the 26 ratio of inbound to outbound voice roaming with Sprint PCS and Sprint roaming partners fluctuates from period to period and year to year, the margin we earn from the difference between roaming revenue and roaming expense is difficult to predict. As our subscriber base grows, we expect to incur more fees for roaming. Similarly, if Sprint's CDMA subscriber base fails to grow or declines, or if other carriers enhance their network coverage within our territory, merge (as have Alltel and Verizon Wireless), or change their roaming arrangements in favor of another carrier, we would expect to receive lower roaming revenue. Additionally, Sprint PCS subscribers based in our territory may spend more time outside our territory—resulting in us incurring more fees for voice roaming—and wireless subscribers from outside our territory may spend less time in our territory or may use our services less—resulting in us receiving lower revenue for voice roaming. We have experienced and may continue to experience a high rate of subscriber turnover, which may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. While our customer turnover rate, or "churn", was lower in 2008 relative to recent years, it has been and may continue to be higher than the national industry average rate or our projections due to significant competition in the industry and weakened economic conditions, or other factors. A high rate of customer turnover adversely affects our competitive position, liquidity and results of operations, especially because we subsidize a significant portion of the costs of initial purchases of handsets by new customers. Factors that have contributed, and may contribute in the future, to higher churn include inability or unwillingness of customers to pay, resulting in involuntary deactivations, customer mix and credit class, and, in particular, sub-prime credit class customers, customer credit terms, deposit requirements for sub-prime customers, number of customers receiving services under contracts with terms of a year or greater, attractiveness of competitors' products, services and pricing, network coverage, call quality and related performance relative to competitors, customer service, and other competitive factors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a high level of bad debt expense that may continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Due to weakened economic conditions, among other things, our bad debt expense has been and may continue to be higher than our historical rate or projections. If we, together with Sprint, are unable to successfully manage the credit risk mix of our gross additions or manage our existing subscriber base accounts receivable collections, our bad debt expense, results of operations and liquidity will be adversely affected. If we lose the right to install our equipment on wireless towers or are unable to acquire new leases or renew expiring leases for wireless towers on favorable terms or at all, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. All of our base stations are installed on facilities that we lease from third parties pursuant to master agreements. The majority of our leased tower sites are leased from a few tower companies; and as of December 31, 2008, approximately 66% of our tower sites were leased from three tower companies. If a master agreement with one of these tower companies were to terminate, or if one of these tower companies were unable to support the use of its tower sites by us, we would have to find new sites or may be required to rebuild the affected portion of our wireless network. In addition, the concentration of our tower leases with a limited number of tower companies could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to acquire new leases or renew our expiring leases with these tower companies either on favorable terms or at all. If any of the tower leasing companies with whom we do business should experience severe financial difficulties, or file for bankruptcy protection, our ability to use our towers could be adversely affected. That, in turn, would 27 adversely affect our business, revenue and financial condition if a material number of towers were involved. We depend on other telecommunications companies for some services that, if delayed or interrupted, could delay our expected increases in subscribers and revenue. We depend on other telecommunications companies to provide facilities and transport to interconnect our wireless network and to connect our wireless network with the landline telephone systems. Without these services, we could not offer Sprint PCS services to our subscribers in some areas. From time to time, we have experienced delays in obtaining facilities and transport from some of these companies, and in obtaining local telephone numbers for use by our subscribers, which are sometimes in short supply, and we may continue to experience delays and interruptions in our network operations and our business may suffer. Delays or interruptions could also result in a breach of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, subjecting these agreements to potential termination by Sprint PCS. We rely exclusively on Nortel Networks for our network equipment. This equipment is generally not interchangeable or interoperable with network equipment from other providers and we would be materially adversely affected if we could not obtain additional network equipment or support from Nortel Networks timely or at all and, in any event, cost effectively. Our wireless network equipment is supplied solely by Nortel Networks. If additional equipment or support is needed for expansion or repair of our network, it generally must come from Nortel Networks in order to be compatible with our existing network equipment. Nortel Networks filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 2009. If Nortel Networks were to cease or delay supplying equipment or suspend warranty coverage, we could be prevented or delayed in expanding, repairing or supporting our network. Any inability to expand or repair our network could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, Nortel Networks, or any potential successor, potentially could exert significant bargaining power over price, quality, warranty claims or other terms relating to its equipment, which could increase our operating or equipment acquisition costs. Additionally, if Nortel Networks has a significant disruption in its business or liquidates, our business and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. Alternative or advanced technologies, including WiMax and LTE, and current uncertainties in the wireless and overall communications market may render the technology we use obsolete or reduce demand for our products and services. The wireless telecommunications industry continues to experience significant and rapid technological change, as evidenced by the pace of upgrades in existing digital wireless systems, evolving industry standards, ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, shorter development cycles for new products, deployment of unlicensed spectrum devices and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. We rely on Sprint to keep pace with these technological changes. If Sprint is unable to keep pace with these technological changes or other changes in the wireless communications market, or fails to make those changes available to us, the CDMA technology used in our wireless network or our business strategy may become obsolete. If we fail to implement significant technological changes or keep pace with Sprint's network technology, we may lose subscribers and/or roaming revenue and our ability to maintain and increase revenue will be impaired. The convergence of wireless, landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access is also creating uncertainties in the overall communications market. The proliferation of Wi-Fi, and the potential application of Worldwide Inter-Operability for Microwave Access ("WiMax") and/or Long Term Evolution ("LTE") technology, create additional uncertainty about how customers will 28 communicate wirelessly in the future. Future wireless applications on current or future portions of the wireless spectrum may also reduce demand for the wireless products and services we offer for Sprint. In addition, Sprint continues to develop advanced technologies and delivery channels, such as its WiMax initiative with Clearwire and others, and its failure to share these technologies with us, as we believe is required under our affiliation agreements, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We anticipate we will require ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our desired capital expenditures. We incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain and upgrade our wireless network to remain technologically current and competitive and to enhance the efficiency of our sales operations. We anticipate total capital expenditures for 2009 will be between $35.0 million and $45.0 million. Although we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and operating cash flow will be sufficient to operate our business and fund our capital needs for at least the next twelve months, if it is not sufficient to fund our capital expenditures for any reason, we may not be able to obtain additional funds and we may be forced to reduce our level of capital spending. The terms of the indentures governing our senior secured notes limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain additional funds, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms. If we do not have sufficient funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not retain our key employees, our business may suffer. Our future success depends in large part on the continued employment of our key employees. There is competition for qualified personnel in our industry, and the limited availability of qualified individuals could become an issue of increasing concern in the future. Moreover, the uncertainty surrounding our relationship with Sprint, including Sprint's acquisition of all but three PCS Affiliates of Sprint (including us), makes retention more difficult and makes it more expensive to fill vacancies. Our financial condition depends upon qualified personnel successfully implementing our business plan. If we lose any of our key employees, our business could be materially adversely affected. If the Employee Free Choice Act is adopted, it would be easier for our employees to obtain union representation and our businesses could be impacted. Currently, none of our employees are represented by unions. However, our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. Additionally, it is expected that the Employee Free Choice Act will be reintroduced in the new Congress. If reintroduced and enacted in its most recent form, the Employee Free Choice Act would: (1) allow unions to become the representative of previously unrepresented employees by getting so-called "authorization cards" signed by a majority of the employees involved, without requiring the union to go through a secret ballot election; (2) require binding arbitration upon an employer and the union if they were unable to negotiate a first contract within specified timelines; and (3) impose new penalties on employers who violate provisions of the Act. If we experience any labor disruptions or if some or all of our workforce were to become unionized and the terms of the collective bargaining agreement were significantly different from our current compensation arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. 29 Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could result in a loss of investor confidence regarding our financial reports or may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with the reporting requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In doing so, we may identify significant deficiencies or errors that are not currently known to us. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a "material weakness" or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A "material weakness" is a significant deficiency or combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management's attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able or willing to issue a favorable assessment if we conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide us with an unqualified report as required by Section 404, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our company, which could negatively impact the value of our securities and could impact our ability to raise additional financing if needed in the future. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions. Major equipment failures, natural disasters, including severe weather, terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security that affect our wireless network, including communication switches, cell sites or other equipment, or that affect Sprint's networks or third-party owned local and long-distance networks on which we rely, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. These events could disrupt our operations, require significant resources, result in a loss of customers or impair our ability to attract new customers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to maintain the integrity of customer data could damage our reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. We collect or have access to personally identifiable information relating to our customers when we are activating or servicing these customers. Similarly, Sprint maintains this information on an ongoing basis and also has access to it when similarly activating or servicing these customers. The integrity and privacy of our customers' information is important to us and our customers have a high expectation that we, and Sprint, will adequately protect their personal information. The regulatory environment governing privacy laws is increasingly demanding and privacy laws continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us or Sprint (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us or Sprint), breach of security on systems storing our customer data, a loss of customer data or fraudulent use of customer data could aversely impact Sprint's, and our, reputation, and/or result in fines or other damages and litigation. We depend on roaming revenue from resellers of Sprint PCS services for a portion of our revenue. Resellers of Sprint PCS services, such as Virgin Mobile, are subject to a number of risks, including high churn, high bad debt expense, increased competition, dependence on fourth quarter gross additions and reliance, in many cases, on specific segments of the market, for example, the youth 30 segment. In the past few years, a number of resellers, including Disney Mobile and ESPN Mobile, ceased providing service, reflecting the increasingly competitive environment for resellers. We are not party to any underlying agreements that these resellers have with Sprint and therefore, subject to certain exceptions, are generally unable to set prices or otherwise monitor the performance of the resellers. Additionally, the resellers using the Sprint network change from time to time and such changes are outside of our control. If a reseller, particularly Virgin Mobile, has a disruption in its business plan, experiences financial difficulties, ceases to grow or service its customer base or contracts with another wireless provider for its service, we may lose the related revenue and it may make it more difficult for us to obtain sufficient revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. Anti-takeover and other provisions affecting us could prevent or delay a change of control that is beneficial to our shareholders. Certain provisions of our debt instruments and other agreements and provisions of applicable Delaware law and applicable Federal and state regulations may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or other change of control that holders of our securities may consider favorable. These provisions could: •delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company; •discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price; or •adversely affect the market price of our securities. Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our stock is highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: •quarterly variations in our or Sprint's operating results; •our or Sprint's operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; •changes in expectations as to our or Sprint's future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors or such guidance provided by us or Sprint; •announcements by us, Sprint or other companies in the telecommunications industry of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, capital commitment plans, prospects, service offerings, technological developments or operating results; •additions or departures of key personnel; •trading or volume fluctuations, particularly in consideration of the concentrated holdings of our common stock with a few parties; •future sales or purchases of our securities; •changes in our operational relationship with Sprint; •market speculation involving potential changes in our strategic relationship with Sprint, including acquisition of us by Sprint or revision of our affiliation with Sprint; •actual or expected developments related to our ongoing or future litigation with Sprint; •other risk factors as discussed herein; and •other unforeseen events. 31 Stock markets in the United States often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic or political conditions such as recession, interest rate fluctuations or acts of terrorism, could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Risks Related to Our Relationship with Sprint PCS If Sprint does not succeed, our business may not succeed. As a PCS Affiliate of Sprint, we are dependent upon Sprint for many aspects of our business, including the brand name under which we operate, the spectrum that we use and the nationwide wireless network outside of our territory. From the subscribers' point of view, we are "Sprint" in our markets and they use our wireless network and the rest of the Sprint PCS network as a unified network. Sprint's performance and brand reputation nationwide—over which we have no control—impacts our performance. If Sprint has a significant disruption to its business plan or wireless network, fails to attract and retain subscribers or otherwise operate its business in an efficient manner or suffers a continued weakening of its brand name, our business and results of operations would likely be negatively impacted. If Sprint should have significant financial problems, including bankruptcy, our business would suffer material adverse consequences, which could include termination or revision of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. We depend on Sprint to offer competitive products and services. We are required to offer Sprint products and services designated for regional or national offerings. We are reliant upon Sprint to determine what products and services to offer to remain competitive in the wireless marketplace. We are also dependent upon Sprint to remain technologically competitive. We are required to offer PCS subscriber pricing plans from Sprint PCS designated for regional or national offerings, such as Sprint's "Everything" plans. Sprint PCS prices subscriber pricing plans based on its own objectives and could set price levels or change other characteristics of its plans in a way that may not be economically advantageous for our business, which would result in decreased revenue and/or increased expense. Sprint may attempt to gain or maintain market share in the wireless business by competing on the basis of price, which could decrease our revenue. Our dependence on Sprint PCS to develop competitive products and services and the requirement that we obtain Sprint PCS' consent to sell non-Sprint approved equipment limits our ability to keep pace with our competitors on the introduction of new products, services and equipment. All suppliers of handsets used in our business license intellectual property from Qualcomm, some of which has been found to infringe on certain patents owned by Broadcom Corporation. If Qualcomm does not resolve this issue, we may be unable to use handsets that are subject to these claims, including handsets that utilize Qualcomm's Q-Chat® technology. Some of our competitors are larger than us, possess greater resources and more extensive coverage areas, and may market other services, such as landline telephone service, cable television and Internet access, along with their wireless communications services. If Sprint does not develop new technology to compete with technology developed by our competitors, or fails to make available, whether or not permitted by our affiliation agreements, technology it has developed or is developing, our ability to compete will suffer. Additionally, if Sprint is unable to remain competitive in the negotiation of exclusivity agreements with vendors surrounding the introduction of popular new handsets, our ability to attract and retain subscribers will suffer. 32 We may have difficulty in obtaining an adequate supply of handsets from Sprint. We are dependent on Sprint for our supply of handsets. Sprint orders handsets from various manufacturers. We could have difficulty obtaining specific types of handsets in a timely manner if: •Sprint does not adequately project the need for handsets for itself, its PCS Affiliates and its other third-party distribution channels, particularly in connection with the transition to new technologies; •Whether or not permitted by our affiliation agreements, Sprint gives preference to itself and/or other distribution channels over its affiliates; •We do not adequately project our need for handsets; •Sprint modifies its handset logistics and delivery plan in a manner that restricts or delays access to handsets; •One or more of Sprint's handset manufacturers experiences financial or operating difficulties or ceases doing business; or •There is an adverse development in the relationship between Sprint and its suppliers or vendors. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could hinder our ability to attract or retain subscribers. We rely on Sprint to remit cash due to us. Whether or not permitted by our affiliation agreements, Sprint may withhold or delay cash due to us, and in the past we have had disputes with Sprint relating to the amount of cash Sprint is required to pay us. If Sprint's financial condition deteriorates, or if for other reasons it withholds or extends the timing of contractual payments due to us, our working capital requirements could increase, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and liquidity. The wireless spectrum that we use is licensed to Sprint, not us. Sprint PCS, not us, holds the licenses necessary to provide wireless services in our territory. We do not have any spectrum licenses that are used in our business. The FCC requires that licensees like Sprint PCS maintain control of their licensed systems and not delegate control to third-party operators or managers without the FCC's consent. If Sprint PCS does not maintain control over its licensed spectrum, our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS may be terminated which will negatively affect our operating results. Our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS reflect an arrangement that the parties believe meets the FCC requirements for licensee control of licensed spectrum. However, if the FCC were to determine that any of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS need to be modified to increase the level of licensee control, we have agreed with Sprint PCS to use our best efforts to modify the agreements to comply with applicable law. If we cannot agree with Sprint PCS to modify the agreements, those agreements may be terminated. If the agreements are terminated, we would no longer be a part of the Sprint PCS network and we would not be able to conduct our business. If Sprint PCS loses its licenses in our territory, we would not be able to provide wireless services without obtaining rights to other licenses. We rely on Sprint to provide wireless service outside of our territory. We rely on Sprint to provide nationwide service to the subscribers based in our territory through its own PCS network and through roaming arrangements with third parties that it controls. If Sprint loses its roaming arrangements with third parties, subscribers based in our territory would not have coverage outside of the Sprint PCS network. If Sprint PCS loses its wireless licenses outside our territory, Sprint PCS or the applicable PCS Affiliate of Sprint would not be able to provide wireless 33 services without obtaining rights to other licenses and our ability to offer nationwide calling plans would be diminished and potentially more costly. We rely on Sprint's internal support systems. We rely on Sprint PCS's internal support systems, including customer care, billing and back office support. In addition, we rely on Sprint for the proper application of credit policies, the processing and collection of receivables and bad debt collection, as well as the communication of certain subscriber, financial, marketing and operational information to us. Pursuant to our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, the fees we pay for these services are set through 2010. Accordingly, we will not benefit if Sprint is able to reduce its cost of providing these services. Problems with Sprint PCS' internal support systems could cause, among other things: •delays or problems in our operations or services; •an increase in customer care credits; •delays or difficulty in gaining sufficient access to subscriber, financial, marketing and operational information; •a loss of new and existing subscribers; and •an increase in bad debt expense. Sprint PCS has the right to terminate any service provided under our affiliation agreements upon nine months' prior written notice; provided, however, that if we desire to continue receiving such service, Sprint PCS has agreed that it will assist us in developing that function internally or locating a third-party vendor that will provide that service. Although Sprint PCS has agreed that if it terminates the services, it will reimburse us for expenses we incur in transitioning to any service internally or to a third party, if Sprint PCS terminates a service for which we have not developed or are unable to develop a cost-effective alternative, our operating costs may increase beyond our expectations and our operations may be interrupted or restricted. We do not currently have a contingency plan if Sprint PCS terminates a service we currently receive from it or if we cannot reach agreement with Sprint on new rates. Following the merger between Sprint and Nextel, the internal support systems of Sprint and Nextel were integrated, which included the 2008 migration of subscribers, including subscribers in our territory, onto a common platform for billing and customer care, called Ensemble. We believe that the conversion to Ensemble and its related reporting systems during 2008 resulted in issues that have had an adverse impact on our subscriber activity and financial results, some of which we formally disputed in 2008 as they relate to 2008 and subsequently resolved in late 2008 and early 2009. If the same or other issues with Ensemble continue to arise and are not resolved in a timely manner, our business would continue to be negatively impacted. We rely upon the accuracy of Sprint's financial reporting. The data provided to us by Sprint related to the back-office functions it performs for us is the primary source for our service, roaming and reseller revenues, and for a significant portion of our cost of service and roaming, and selling and marketing expense included in our statement of operations. We use this data to record our financial results and prepare our financial statements. If Sprint fails to deliver timely and accurate information, this may lead us to make adverse decisions and inaccurate assumptions for future business plans and could also negatively affect our cash flows as Sprint collects our receivables and remits a net amount to us that is based on the financial information it provides. At times we have experienced delays and inaccuracies in certain data provided by Sprint. Resolution of these delays and inaccuracies under the dispute provisions of our affiliation agreements can span 34 months or longer. Delays and inaccuracies which are material could adversely affect the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and if we later identify material errors in that data provided to us, or material variances from estimated amounts in delayed data provided to us, we may be required to restate our financial statements. If that occurs to us or any other PCS Affiliate of Sprint, investors and securities analysts may lose confidence in us and Sprint. The Sprint PCS affiliate program has been reduced to a few affiliates and Sprint's ongoing commitment to the program is unknown. Sprint's 2005 merger with Nextel and the litigation involving Sprint and the PCS Affiliates that followed resulted, directly or indirectly, in Sprint's acquisition of nearly all of the PCS Affiliates of Sprint. One remaining PCS Affiliate of Sprint, Shenandoah Telecommunications Company ("Shentel"), amended its affiliation agreements with Sprint in March 2007 to, among other things, simplify the methods used to settle revenue and expense between it and Sprint. As a result of Sprint's acquisitions of PCS Affiliates and Shentel's revised affiliate relationship, Sprint's ongoing commitment to the affiliate program as historically structured is unknown. As Sprint implements newer systems, such as Ensemble, they may design these systems with limited regard as to the separate and distinct needs of the Sprint affiliate program that will rely on them. Similarly, as the size of the Sprint Affiliate program has diminished, so may awareness of Affiliate marketing, operational and other informational needs within the Sprint organization. In addition, Sprint may not devote as much, or the same quality, of its personnel and resources to us and the other two remaining PCS Affiliates of Sprint as it has historically provided. Individually or together, these issues could make it more difficult for the resources Sprint continues to commit to the Affiliate program, to provide to us its obligated services under our affiliation agreements. Any failure by Sprint to fully satisfy its obligations as to services provided under our affiliation agreements would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We and Sprint may agree to further modify our affiliate relationship in ways that could further alter our current business plan and projections. Our business depends on the continued effectiveness of our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. The terms of our relationship with Sprint PCS are set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS. Our affiliation agreements require that we meet and maintain various requirements with respect to network coverage and technical and customer service requirements. Failure to meet and maintain these requirements could constitute a material breach of our affiliation agreements. If these agreements were to be terminated or otherwise rendered ineffective, or if Sprint PCS fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, our ability to conduct business or to compete in an effective manner would be severely impacted. Our affiliation agreements provide that, upon the occurrence of an event of termination caused by our breach of such agreements, Sprint PCS has the right to, among other things, purchase our operating assets without stockholder approval and for a price equal to 72% of our "entire business value," which is our appraised value determined using certain principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. See "Part I, Item 1. Business—Affiliation Agreements with Sprint PCS" for a description of how we calculate our entire business value. Sprint may alter the requirements in our affiliation agreements in a manner that requires us to incur increased capital expenditures and other expenses. Pursuant to our affiliation agreements with Sprint, we are required to meet and maintain various requirements with respect to network coverage and technical and customer service requirements. Subject to certain limitations set forth in our affiliation agreements, Sprint may alter its network and technical requirements or request that we build out additional areas within our territory, which could result in us incurring substantial additional costs to remain in compliance with such requirements. If we 35 do not have the necessary funds for this purpose, we may seek to incur additional indebtedness. Our existing substantial indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain any additional financing that we may seek. Moreover, if Sprint determines that we are not in compliance with applicable requirements, our ability to obtain additional financing could be negatively impacted. If we cannot obtain any necessary additional financing, we may be unable to remedy such noncompliance, thereby resulting in a material breach of our affiliation agreements which could lead to their termination by Sprint PCS. If Sprint PCS terminates our affiliation agreements, our ability to conduct business would be severely impacted. Sprint has limited approval rights with respect to certain corporate transactions. Sprint PCS has the right to withhold its consent to any transaction in which the "ultimate parent" of any of our operating subsidiaries that is the party to the affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS, changes. We must obtain the consent of Sprint PCS prior to any assignment by us of our affiliation agreements with it. Sprint PCS also has a right of first refusal if we decide to sell our operating assets to a third party. We are also subject to a number of restrictions on the transfer of our business, including a prohibition on the sale of our operating assets to competitors of Sprint PCS. These restrictions and the other restrictions contained in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS restrict our ability to sell our business, may reduce the value a buyer would be willing to pay for our business, and may reduce our "entire business value," which is our appraised value determined using principles set forth in our affiliation agreements with Sprint PCS and based on the price a willing buyer would pay a willing seller for our entire business as a going concern. Parts of our territory have limited licensed spectrum, which may adversely affect the quality of our service. In the majority of our markets, Sprint PCS has licenses covering 20 MHz or 30 MHz of spectrum. However, Sprint PCS has licenses covering only 10 MHz in approximately 13% of our territory, which represents approximately 1.9 million out of a total population of approximately 15.1 million residents in our territory. In the future, as our subscriber base increases in those areas, or as usage increases, this limited licensed spectrum may not be able to accommodate increases in call volume or changes or upgrades in technology, including our current third generation EV-DO Rev. A technology or any future fourth generation technology, and may lead to increased dropped calls and may limit our ability to offer enhanced services. We may also have to increase our capital expenditures and/or operating expense in an attempt to compensate for this lack of licensed spectrum. It is more difficult and expensive to deploy EV-DO Rev. A in these markets, and, as a result, we may not be able to remain technologically competitive in these markets. Sprint's compliance with the ruling of the Delaware Court of Chancery and the final judgment and orders of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois may have an adverse effect on us in ways beyond our control. We engaged in litigation with Sprint regarding its 2005 merger with Nextel. Sprint's operation of the legacy Nextel business in our territory is subject to the Delaware Court of Chancery's August 2006 ruling and the protections for our benefit in the September 2006 order of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois (the "Circuit Court"). Both the Delaware and Illinois rulings are final. The Delaware ruling does not protect us from all of the ways in which Sprint may operate the legacy Nextel business in a manner that would have a material adverse effect on us. This ruling applies to our Horizon and Bright operating subsidiaries and the service areas in which they operate. To the extent that Sprint desires to exploit limitations of the Delaware ruling, our business may be adversely affected. For example, the ruling provides that Sprint may engage in limited re-branding of the legacy Nextel stores in our Horizon and Bright service areas. We do not know how or if Sprint will attempt to re-brand the legacy Nextel stores in our service area. Additionally, in light of certain representations that Sprint made to the Delaware court, the ruling does not impose additional restrictions on Sprint's use of our confidential information. It is difficult for us to monitor Sprint's compliance with its 36 representations as to confidentiality. If we believe that Sprint is violating the Delaware ruling, we may need to enforce the ruling through legal proceedings in Delaware. The Illinois ruling provides that Sprint and those acting in concert with it must cease owning, operating and managing the Nextel wireless network in our subsidiary iPCS Wireless, Inc.'s service area on or before January 25, 2010. Sprint must also continue to abide by the terms of the Forbearance Agreement between iPCS Wireless, Inc. and Sprint which sets forth certain limitations on Sprint's operations following its merger with Nextel. While we are committed to defending our rights and aggressively seeking to ensure Sprint's compliance with the Circuit Court's order, attempts by Sprint to evade or further delay complying with the requirements of the Circuit Court's order could result in further delays and an adverse effect on our business and operations. We believe that our stock price has been, and continues to be, affected by market speculation involving potential changes in our relationship with Sprint as a result of, among other things, the Sprint-Nextel merger and the final outcome of our disputes with Sprint, including the Circuit Court's ruling in the Nextel merger litigation. Accordingly, the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The final outcome of our litigation relating to the Sprint-Clearwire transaction may have an adverse effect on us in ways that would be beyond our control. We have been, and continue to be, engaged in litigation with Sprint regarding its 2008 Sprint-Clearwire transaction, through which Sprint is developing a nationwide mobile WiMax network. We intend to continue to vigorously protect and enforce our rights, but there is no assurance that we will prevail. We do not know Sprint's intentions for complying with any future ruling related to the Sprint-Clearwire transaction, and the impact of Sprint's actions or inactions in either case on our business. Risks Related to the Wireless Telecommunications Industry The FCC may fail to renew the wireless licenses that we use, which would prevent us from providing wireless services. Wireless licenses, including the ones issued to Sprint that we use, are subject to renewal and revocation by the FCC. The FCC has adopted specific standards that apply to wireless personal communications services license renewals. Any failure to comply with these standards could result in the non-renewal of the licenses. Regulation by government agencies and taxing authorities may increase our costs of providing service or require us to change our services. Our operations and those of Sprint PCS are subject to varying degrees of regulation by the FCC, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and those of Sprint PCS, thereby hindering or increasing the costs of doing business. For example, changes in tax laws or the interpretation of existing tax laws by state and local authorities could subject us to increased income, sales, gross receipts or other tax costs or require us to alter the structure of our current relationship with Sprint PCS. Concerns over health risks and safety posed by the use of wireless handsets may reduce consumer demand for our services. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may: •be linked to various health problems resulting from continued or excessive use, including cancer; 37 •interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers; and •cause explosions if used while fueling an automobile. Widespread concerns over radio frequency emissions may expose us to potential litigation. To the extent we are named in any such litigation, we will be forced to defend ourselves. If we do not prevail in such litigation, or are forced to pay damages, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Such concerns may also discourage the use of wireless handsets or result in additional regulation imposing restrictions or increasing requirements on the location and operation of cell sites or the use or design of wireless handsets. Any resulting decrease in demand for these services or increase in the cost of complying with additional regulations could impair our ability to profitably operate our business. Such concerns may result in the loss of subscribers, which may impair our ability to maintain and increase revenue and lower our operating margin. In addition, we may need to dedicate a larger portion of any cash flow from our operating activities to comply with such additional regulations. Due to safety concerns, some state and local legislatures have passed or are considering legislation restricting the use of wireless telephones while driving automobiles. Concerns over safety risks and the effect of future legislation, if adopted in the areas we serve, could limit our ability to market and sell our wireless services. In addition, it may discourage use of our wireless devices and decrease our revenue from subscribers who now use their wireless telephones while driving. Further, litigation relating to accidents, deaths or serious bodily injuries allegedly incurred as a result of wireless telephone use while driving could result in damage awards, adverse publicity and further governmental regulation. Market saturation could limit or decrease our rate of new subscriber additions and increase costs to keep our current subscribers. Intense competition in the wireless telecommunications industry could cause prices for wireless products and services to continue to decline. If prices drop, our rate of net subscriber additions will take on greater significance in improving our financial condition and results of operations. However, as our and our competitors' penetration rates in our markets increase over time, our rate of adding net subscribers could decrease or we could lose net subscribers. If a decrease in net subscriber additions or our subscriber base were to happen, it could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs through equipment upgrades and other retention costs to keep our current subscribers from switching to our competitors. Significant competition in the wireless telecommunications industry may result in our competitors offering new services or lower prices, which could prevent us from operating profitably and may cause prices for our services to continue to decline in the future. Competition in the wireless telecommunications industry is intense. Competition has caused, and we anticipate that competition will continue to cause, the market prices for two-way wireless products and services to decline. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the wireless telecommunications industry. If prices for our services continue to decline, it could adversely affect our ability to increase revenue, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our results of operations. In addition, the viability of our business depends upon, among other things, our ability to compete with other wireless providers on reliability, quality and speed of service, availability of voice and data features and customer care, as well as on costs to implement and service respective technology platforms. Prepaid and unlimited minute plans, including those offered by Sprint and several other national wireless carriers, also continue to increase in popularity, offering consumers more alternatives and potentially putting more downward pressure on wireless service pricing as well as potentially increasing our 38 expense of providing service. In addition, the pricing of our services may be affected by competition, including the entry of new service providers into our markets. Furthermore, there has been a trend in the wireless telecommunications industry toward consolidation of wireless service providers, which we expect to lead to larger competitors over time, who would benefit from increasing economies of scale. The recent merger of Verizon Wireless and Alltel, the two largest CDMA-format wireless service providers besides Sprint, could make it more difficult to obtain fair roaming terms for our customers in those areas not served by the Sprint network. Proposals by the FCC to sell more wireless mobility spectrum and perhaps require certain licensees to provide wireless broadband service free of charge could further increase competitive pressures on our business, as could the FCC's decision to allow sale of unlicensed devices that may provide some of the same capabilities as the wireless handsets we provide to our customers. We are a consumer business and a prolonged economic downturn in the United States involving significantly lowered consumer spending could negatively affect our results of operations. Our primary subscriber base is composed of individual consumers, and in the event of a prolonged economic downturn in the United States or in our markets in which spending by individual consumers drops significantly, our current and potential subscribers may be unable or unwilling to purchase wireless services or pay their wireless service bills and our business may be negatively affected. We are also exposed to risks associated with the potential financial instability of Sprint and other Affiliates of Sprint, our resellers, including Virgin Mobile, our third party distributors and our suppliers, most notably Nortel Networks, many of whom may be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn in the United States. The financial difficulty or failure of any of these entities would negatively affect our results of operations and, in the case of Sprint, disrupt our business operations. If Sprint was having difficulties as a result of such an economic downturn, handset manufacturers may be more cautious in committing to exclusive handset agreements with Sprint or generally in supplying handsets to Sprint, which could negatively affect our ability to attract and retain subscribers. Similarly, potentially in response to economic conditions, Sprint, whether permitted under our affiliation agreements or not, may reduce the level of support it provides to us or may make business decisions that negatively affect our results from operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 39 