D. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares involves a high degree of risk and should be considered speculative. The risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report, including under Item 5 — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” and in the Company’s financial statements and accompanying notes, should be carefully considered before making any investment. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations could be seriously harmed and the investor could lose all or part of his or her investment. Risks and Uncertainties Westaim may be unable to develop commercially viable products. Some of the Company’s products, such as Nucryst’s potential wound care products, are still in the development stage. The Company will continue to incur significant research and development costs before any of these products are commercially viable, and there is no assurance that any of its products will ever reach this stage or that the products will achieve the level of market penetration expected. Some or all of the technological obstacles that will need to be overcome in order to make these products commercially viable may prove to be insurmountable. If Westaim or its subsidiaries fail to raise the capital necessary to fund its operations, they may be unable to advance the development and commercialization of their technologies. A commitment of substantial resources by the Company, its subsidiaries and its collaborators to conduct research and development into new products will be required to successfully commercialize products under development. The Company or its subsidiaries may not be able to raise additional capital at the time it is needed to complete product development and, if necessary, build manufacturing facilities. Additional capital may be required to fund operations, continue the research and development of product candidates, commercialize products and construct pilot and full scale manufacturing facilities. If the Company or its subsidiaries are unable to raise additional funds when required, it may be necessary to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of their development programs. Westaim’s success is dependent upon its ability to form partnerships to develop and sell its products. The Company’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to successfully develop, manufacture and market their current and proposed products will depend, to a large extent, on their ability to form partnerships or joint ventures with established corporations or other collaborators. Except as described elsewhere in this document, the Company and its subsidiaries have not yet entered into any material partnerships or joint ventures for the development or marketing of these products, nor will they necessarily be able to do so in the future. The Company and its subsidiaries may be unable 8 to find suitable partners or form a partnership or joint venture on terms that are beneficial. If the Company and its subsidiaries do enter into a partnership or joint venture, they may suffer losses if the partner becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to meet its obligations. Westaim’s products may become technologically obsolete. The Company and its subsidiaries compete, and intend to compete, in markets that are characterized by rapid adaptation to technological change. These markets may include, but are not limited to, the medical devices and pharmaceuticals markets. The current and future products of the Company and its subsidiaries may be quickly rendered obsolete and unmarketable. The Company and its subsidiaries will need to continually develop new products and enhance existing products to keep pace with evolving technologies, customer preferences and industry standards. Westaim is developing products for highly competitive markets. The Company and its subsidiaries face, and will face, competition from a number of other companies including major domestic and international companies which have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, distribution and other resources. Many of these competitors may also have greater name or brand recognition. Competitors may produce more technologically-advanced products, at a lower cost, than the Company or its subsidiaries are capable of producing. Competition may cause the Company or its subsidiaries to lose market share and may reduce profit margins on any products that it is able to sell. Westaim may be unable to protect its intellectual property. In order to succeed, the Company and its subsidiaries will need to prevent their intellectual property from being misappropriated by third parties. To protect their intellectual property, the Company and its subsidiaries rely primarily on their confidentiality agreements, physical security at research and manufacturing facilities, and the copyright, trade secret, trademark and patent laws of Canada, the United States, and other countries in which the Company and its subsidiaries conduct, or will conduct, business. The laws of other countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of Canada and the United States and, in any event, the methods that the Company and its subsidiaries have chosen may fail to adequately prevent misappropriation of their intellectual property. The Company and its subsidiaries cannot provide assurance that they will succeed in obtaining new patents; that they will be able to enforce existing patents against third parties; or that existing patents will not be successfully challenged by third parties. Even if the Company and its subsidiaries are able to prevent the misappropriation of intellectual property, others may independently and legally develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior. Westaim may become involved in expensive intellectual property or product liability litigation. The Company and its subsidiaries may be required to commence litigation to enforce their intellectual property rights. Others may claim that the Company or its subsidiaries have infringed upon their intellectual property rights and commence litigation. The Company believes that it and its subsidiaries may be subject to an increasing number of infringement claims as they begin to produce more products in more industries. Some of the Company’s and it subsidiaries’ existing and proposed products, such as Nucryst’s medical devices and pharmaceuticals, are part of a class of product that is particularly vulnerable to product liability litigation for a number of reasons, including but not limited to the following: • these types of products are extremely complex and the Company and its subsidiaries may fail to discover product faults, despite their best efforts to do so; • these types of products are designed to interact with very complex biological and man-made systems and may interact with these systems in harmful ways that the Company and its subsidiaries were unable to anticipate, despite their best efforts to do so; and • because these products may be used by a large number of people, if these products do cause harm, the Company or its subsidiaries may be exposed to a large number of claims for damages. The Company and its subsidiaries have tried to protect themselves against product liability litigation by including limitation of liability provisions in some of their sales agreements. There is no assurance, however, that existing or future limitation of liability provisions will be sufficient to protect the Company and its subsidiaries in all circumstances, nor can assurance be provided that any of these provisions will be held to be enforceable. The Company believes that it has obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage to protect it against claims. However, its insurance policies may exclude some claims. Furthermore, the Company cannot provide assurance that its insurance limits will be sufficient, nor can it ensure that it will be able to acquire satisfactory insurance in the future. 9 Westaim may be unable to retain the required highly skilled people. The Company’s technology businesses are dependent upon the talents and knowledge of certain key individuals in each of its businesses. The marketplace for people with these skills is highly competitive, and the Company may not be able to retain a sufficient number of people with the skills that it requires. The Company provides competitive remuneration and incentives for the retention of key personnel. Westaim is subject to certain risks because of the international character of its business. The Company estimates that sales to international customers accounted for over 90% of its net sales in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and the Company anticipates that international sales will continue to represent a material portion of net sales in the future. International sales are subject to inherent risks, including variations in local economies, fluctuating exchange rates, greater difficulty in the collection of accounts receivable, changes in tariffs and other trade barriers, adverse foreign tax consequences and burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. The Company may also encounter exchange rate risk in the event international sales are denominated in a currency other than Canadian dollars. The Company’s financial results are reported in Canadian dollars. A significant portion of the Company’s revenue and expenses, as well as accounts payable, accounts receivable and other balance sheet items, are frequently denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar, primarily in United States dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these other currencies and the Canadian dollar could reduce the Company’s reported revenue, increase the Company’s costs or give rise to a charge related to foreign currency translation, all of which could adversely affect operating results. Westaim’s investment in third party asset-backed commercial paper (“ABCP”) may be overstated. The Company has estimated the value of its investment in ABCP to be 70% of its original value. The Company has been unable to obtain complete information on the underlying assets held by the respective trusts that issued the ABCP and in accordance with Canadian GAAP the Company has made assumptions to calculate the estimated fair value of the ABCP. There is no assurance that the estimated fair value reported approximates the actual value that will be realized. Details with respect to the Company’s investment in ABCP is found in Item 4B — “Investments” and in Note 7 to the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Westaim may be unable to sell the iFire business and assets for proceeds equal to their book value. The Company announced in November 2007 its decision to sell the business and assets of iFire Technology Ltd. The net assets of iFire have been written down to management’s reasonable estimate of net realizable value. However, there can be no assurance that a sale transaction will be successfully completed by the Company, or if completed, that sale proceeds will match the net book value of iFire’s assets as at December 31, 2007. Westaim’s success is dependent on the success of Nucryst. Westaim’s shareholdings in Nucryst represent a substantial portion of Westaim’s assets. Nucryst completed its initial public offering in December 2005 and although Westaim continues to hold a majority interest in Nucryst, Westaim now has a limited ability to control the operations of Nucryst and the associated costs, which could adversely affect Westaim’s financial performance. Westaim’s return on its investment in Nucryst will depend upon a number of factors that may be beyond Westaim’s control, including the risk factors set forth above that relate to Nucryst. In addition, Nucryst is subject to several additional risks including, but not limited to, the following risk factors relevant to Westaim which were reported in Nucryst’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and are included here without independent verification: • Nucryst has a history of net losses and negative cash flow from operations; this will likely continue in the future and Nucryst’s cash resources may not be adequate to accomplish its objectives. • Nucryst is dependent on its relationship with Smith & Nephew plc. Since May 2001, all of Nucryst’s revenues have been earned under its contracts with Smith & Nephew plc (“Smith & Nephew”) and Smith & Nephew is currently Nucryst’s only customer. Nucryst’s revenues under its revised contracts with Smith & Nephew are derived primarily from royalties, which are calculated as a percentage of Smith & Nephew’s sales of Acticoat™ products, milestone payments, which are cash payments Nucryst receives upon the achievement by Smith & Nephew of certain sales goals or regulatory achievements relating to the Acticoat™ products, and payment of Nucryst’s costs incurred in manufacturing Acticoat™ products. As a result, Nucryst’s revenues generally vary in proportion to increases or decreases in Smith & Nephew’s sales of its Acticoat™ products. Nucryst therefore depends and will continue to depend on Smith & Nephew to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. Smith & Nephew reported 10 Acticoat™ sales growth of 7% in 2007, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 and 9% for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. However, Smith & Nephew has previously announced that market conditions in the advanced wound care market, including the silver dressing segment, appear to be becoming more difficult due in part to increased competition and customer cost containment efforts. If Smith & Nephew does not increase future sales of its Acticoat™ products, this would likely have a material adverse effect on Nucryst and on the market price of Westaim’s common shares. The Smith & Nephew agreements expire in 2026. However, Smith & Nephew may terminate the agreements earlier if Nucryst fails to cure a material breach of the agreements or if Nucryst suspends operations, ceases to carry on business or files for bankruptcy or takes other similar actions. If Smith & Nephew were to terminate the agreements prior to their expiration, Nucryst would lose the benefit of its strategic collaboration and its only current source of revenue. • Smith & Nephew is the only customer for all of Nucryst’s existing products. Nucryst has agreed to exclusively supply existing Acticoat™ products to Smith & Nephew and any new products with SILCRYST™ coatings or powder that Nucryst develops together with Smith & Nephew for use in non-minor skin wounds and burns in humans. Nucryst’s agreements with Smith & Nephew cover products that are used to treat non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans, which are sometimes collectively referred to as “serious” wounds, excluding consumer first-aid products designed for self-medication or use without advice from a health care professional. Nucryst currently does not have any other products being sold in the marketplace. Consequently, all of Nucryst’s revenue is received from Smith & Nephew and is principally comprised of cost reimbursement, royalty payments and milestone payments. The amount of revenues is determined primarily by the level of sales of Acticoat™ products achieved by Smith & Nephew. Moreover, Smith & Nephew is not required to purchase any significant amount of products from Nucryst. Nucryst is at risk of Smith & Nephew becoming less motivated to market Acticoat™ products due to any one of a number of factors, including other products marketed by Smith & Nephew having better profit margins, or achieving greater acceptance or popularity with health care providers, than the Acticoat™ products including other silver-based wound care products Smith & Nephew is now free to introduce under the revised agreements. Nucryst is also subject to the risk that sales of Acticoat™ products will not grow or will decline due to factors outside Smith & Nephew’s control, including competition from products marketed by competitors having better characteristics or lower prices than Acticoat™ products resulting in customers generally preferring the competitor’s products. Smith & Nephew has the authority to unilaterally determine the selling price for Acticoat™ products. Smith & Nephew may set a relatively low price for the products, or give discounts or rebates that effectively lower the price of the Acticoat™ products, which in either case could reduce Nucryst’s revenues and delay or eliminate receipt of milestone payments. Nucryst’s future success depends in part on the launch of new Acticoat™ products by Smith & Nephew. Nucryst has worked in the past and intends to work in the future with Smith & Nephew on the development of such new products; however, the decision to develop or launch a new product, the timing of the development and launch and all related matters are entirely within Smith & Nephew’s discretion. Therefore, there can be no assurance that new products will be developed or launched at all or on a timeline or in a manner favorable to Nucryst. • Nucryst may be unable to sell its existing products to other parties, even if the agreements with Smith & Nephew expire or terminate. Nucryst has agreed to exclusively supply existing Acticoat™ products to Smith & Nephew and any new products with SILCRYST™ coatings or powder that Nucryst develops together with Smith & Nephew for use on non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. Nucryst does not have the right to sell these products to other parties so long as Smith & Nephew has complied with the terms of the agreements. In addition, Nucryst does not have the right to sell the products marketed by Smith & Nephew as Acticoat™ 3/ Acticoat™ Burn and Acticoat™ 7 in the United States or Canada under any circumstances. If the agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire, or if Nucryst otherwise has the right to sell SILCRYST™-coated wound care products to customers other than Smith & Nephew, Nucryst may be unable to market, distribute and sell these products or to enter into a marketing, distribution and sales agreement with another distributor. Nucryst does not currently have a marketing, distribution or sales organization and there is no assurance that Nucryst would be successful in marketing, distributing or selling its products if it attempted to do so. In addition, Smith & Nephew owns and uses the trademark Acticoat™ to sell products with SILCRYST™ coatings and consequently end-users tend to have greater familiarity with the Acticoat™ trademark as compared to the SILCRYST™ trademark. If the agreements with Smith & Nephew were terminated or expire and Nucryst attempted to market products with SILCRYST™ coatings itself or through a distributor, Nucryst would not have the benefit of the Acticoat™ trademark. • Nucryst may be unable to achieve the cost savings required to offset the manufacturing cost rebate it agreed to pay Smith & Nephew in 2007, 2008 and 2009. 11 On September 30, 2007, Nucryst entered into an amended and restated license and development agreement and a revised supply agreement with Smith & Nephew. Under the revised supply agreement, Nucryst agreed to pay Smith & Nephew, in each of 2007, 2008 and 2009, an annual manufacturing cost rebate of US $4.5 million in anticipation of cost savings Nucryst expects to achieve in such years. If Nucryst is unable to achieve the cost savings required to substantially or completely offset the manufacturing rebate in each of the three years, its results of operations, financial condition and gross margin may be adversely affected in those years and possibly in the future. • Nucryst is required to manufacture Acticoat™ products according to Smith & Nephew’s forecasts and, if Nucryst suffers a material difficulty supplying Acticoat™ products, Smith & Nephew would have the right to manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoat™ products using Nucryst’s technology and facilities. As discussed below, if Nucryst suffers a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products, Smith & Nephew may manufacture or cause a third party to manufacture Acticoat™ products, and in such circumstances Nucryst will be subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to, Smith & Nephew failing to comply with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices or similar regulations in other jurisdictions, resulting in mandated production halts or limitations, Smith & Nephew experiencing manufacturing quality or control issues which halt or limit Acticoat™ production, and a greater risk that some of Nucryst’s proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to other third parties. Smith & Nephew has on several occasions requested that Nucryst increase its production capacity and, as a result, Nucryst completed in 2007 a significant expansion of its production capacity. However, Nucryst may not be able to do so in the future or to supply Smith & Nephew with the quantity or quality of products it requests. For a description of certain factors that may make it difficult to supply the quantity of Acticoat™ products required by Smith & Nephew, see risk factor below “Nucryst currently purchases most of its raw materials from single suppliers. If Nucryst is unable to obtain raw materials and other products from its suppliers that it depends on for its operations, its ability to deliver its products to market may be impeded”. Nucryst is obligated to provide the quantity of Acticoat™ product specified by Smith & Nephew in its demand forecasts. Meeting anticipated demand for Acticoat™ products estimated by Smith & Nephew may require significant scale-up expenses for new facilities and personnel. In setting the annual unit prices Nucryst can charge Smith & Nephew for the products it supplies, Nucryst is permitted to recover the capital expenditures it makes to acquire equipment through the inclusion in unit prices of an amount equal to its annual depreciation expense associated with the equipment. Since Nucryst’s depreciation expenses are typically spread out over a number of years, scaling up its manufacturing capability has required and may in the future require that Nucryst make substantial up-front cash expenditures for capital equipment for which it will not be reimbursed for a period of several years. Smith & Nephew is not required to reimburse Nucryst for any costs incurred in acquiring or improving owned real property, buildings or similar improvements and, as a result, Nucryst is and will be required to obtain additional financing to fund any such expenditures and there is no assurance that Nucryst will be able to do so. Smith & Nephew’s obligation to reimburse Nucryst in any calendar year for increases in Nucryst’s fixed costs that are within its control other than costs incurred at the request of Smith & Nephew, is capped at the greater of a fixed percent and the increase in the Canadian Consumer Price Index. Moreover, there is no assurance that Nucryst will be able to successfully increase its manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand or that Nucryst will be able to satisfy demand in a cost-effective manner. Further, the demand forecasts provided by Smith & Nephew may materially overstate actual demand for Acticoat™ products, thereby resulting in excessive inventories and the potential for loss of product due to shelf-life expiration, or such forecasts may materially understate actual demand for Acticoat™ products resulting in lost sales due to the inability to meet demand on a timely basis. Either situation would have a negative impact on Nucryst’s results of operations as would a decision by Smith & Nephew to significantly increase its worldwide inventory levels of Acticoat™ products as it did in 2006. While Nucryst recognizes manufacturing cost reimbursement as revenue upon shipment of Acticoat™ products to Smith & Nephew, Nucryst does not recognize royalty revenues until Smith & Nephew sells these products to its customers, and consequently, increases in Smith & Nephew’s inventory levels, or changes in the relative contribution of manufacturing cost reimbursement and royalty revenues to Nucryst’s total revenues, has affected and may in the future affect Nucryst’s gross margins. Nucryst leases certain manufacturing equipment from Smith & Nephew which represented approximately 50% of Nucryst’s total manufacturing capacity at December 31, 2007. If Nucryst suffers a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products (which would give Smith & Nephew the right to assume the manufacture of Acticoat™ products as described below), and that difficulty is not cured on a timely basis, this lease would terminate and Smith & Nephew would have the right to take possession of the equipment it leases to Nucryst. In such case, Smith & Nephew would also receive the right to use Nucryst’s technology and this equipment to manufacture, on its own, Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. If Smith & Nephew were to take possession of this equipment and manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or with a third party, even for a limited period of time, it would have a material adverse effect on Nucryst’s business. Nucryst has deposited with an escrow agent certain documentation and manuals that describe the technology used to manufacture Acticoat™ products. Upon the occurrence of certain release events, the documentation and manuals would be released by the escrow agent to Smith & Nephew as part of the right to use Nucryst’s technology to manufacture Acticoat™ products for non-minor skin wounds and burns on humans. A release event is defined as a material difficulty in supplying Acticoat™ products under the supply agreement with Smith & Nephew that is not cured on a timely basis or the occurrence of certain events in connection with insolvency or bankruptcy. In addition, Nucryst has granted to Smith & Nephew a security interest in its manufacturing technology and patent rights used in the manufacture of Acticoat™ products. This security interest secures Nucryst’s obligations to Smith & Nephew under the manufacturing right that would be granted to Smith & Nephew as described above. Under the security trust agreement and trust indenture, Smith & Nephew 12 may take possession of and use Nucryst’s manufacturing technology and patent rights upon the occurrence of a release event as described above. Accordingly, Smith & Nephew would have the right, upon the occurrence of specified events, to use Nucryst’s manufacturing technologies and patent rights to manufacture Acticoat™ products on its own or have them manufactured by a third party. If this were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on Nucryst’s business and would pose a risk that some of Nucryst’s proprietary manufacturing processes and trade secrets will become known to third parties. In addition, the existence of these Smith & Nephew rights will likely make it more difficult for Nucryst to obtain debt and other forms of financing in the future and may also limit the amount investors are willing to pay for the Company’s common shares. • Nucryst’s ability to develop and sell future products, particularly gastrointestinal and future wound care products, is critical to its success, and if Nucryst fails to do so, its business and financial condition will suffer. Nucryst has invested and will continue to invest a significant portion of its time and financial resources in the development of future products including products for wound care and gastrointestinal applications. With the discontinuance in 2006 of Nucryst’s clinical trial program for its pharmaceutical product candidate for the treatment of dermatological conditions, Nucryst has experienced a setback in the timeline for the development and introduction of potential new products. Nucryst is now refocusing its research efforts on preclinical work in gastrointestinal applications of its nanocrystalline technology and is pursuing the introduction of the NPI 32101 cream formulation as a medical device. The development of medical devices and pharmaceutical products is risky because Nucryst cannot be sure that products will be as effective as it anticipates or will receive regulatory approval, and the development of new products is extremely costly and typically extends over many years. Even if Nucryst receives regulatory approval, other companies may be able to market similar products prior to the launch of Nucryst’s products, during which time their products may gain a significant marketing advantage. Nucryst expects to incur substantial capital expenditures in connection with the development of future products. If Nucryst fails to successfully develop and sell its future products then Nucryst will not earn any return on its investment in these future products, which will adversely affect Nucryst’s results of operations and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common shares. It would also adversely affect Nucryst’s financial condition. In addition, if Nucryst is unable to develop future products, it will remain dependent on Smith & Nephew’s ability to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. Nucryst’s success in developing and selling new products will depend upon multiple factors, including: • its ability to develop safe and effective products; • its ability to obtain regulatory approval in the United States, the European Union and other markets and the scope of such approval; • its ability to add sufficient manufacturing capacity and capability at an acceptable cost and in compliance with regulatory requirements; • its ability to generate commercial sales of its products; • acceptance of the product by the medical community and by patients and third-party payors; • inherent development risks, such as the product proving to be unsafe or unreliable, or not having the anticipated effectiveness; • preclusion or obsolescence resulting from third parties’ proprietary rights or superior or equivalent products; • its ability to enter into favorable and effective marketing and distribution agreements, or to be able to effectively market and distribute on its own; • its ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in sufficient quantities; • its ability to raise on acceptable terms the substantial additional capital expected to be necessary to successfully develop and commercialize such products; and • general economic conditions. If Nucryst cannot overcome any of these factors, it may not be able to develop and introduce new products in a timely or cost-effective manner, which could adversely affect its future growth and results of operations. Nucryst’s failure to develop new products could adversely affect the market price of Westaim’s common shares. • The market for advanced wound care and pharmaceutical products is intensely competitive and many of Nucryst’s competitors have significantly more resources and experience than it does, which may limit Nucryst’s commercial opportunities and revenues. The medical device and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive. There are numerous silver-containing advanced wound care dressings and silver-coated medical devices available from a variety of health care companies. Some of these products have been recently introduced and directly compete with Acticoat™. Nucryst sells products containing SILCRYST™ coatings to Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew markets and sells them under its Acticoat™ trademark into a larger competitive environment. 13 Nucryst may not be able to compete successfully. Major competitors in the advanced wound dressing market in which Smith & Nephew’s Acticoat™ products are sold include Convatec, a Bristol Myers Squibb company; Johnson & Johnson Wound Management, a division of Ethicon, Inc.; Argentum Medical, LLC; Coloplast Corp.; AcryMed, Inc.; 3M Company; Kinetic Concepts, Inc.; Mölnlycke Health Care Group AB and Paul Hartmann AG. To the extent that Nucryst develops pharmaceutical products to treat gastrointestinal conditions, it will face competition from pharmaceutical companies developing alternative drugs to treat this disease. In addition, Nucryst faces and will continue to face competition from other major multi-national pharmaceutical companies, medical device companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Products or treatments of Nucryst’s competitors that exist now or that may be developed in the future may reduce the marketability of the current SILCRYST™ coatings and any of Nucryst’s future products, particularly to the extent such products: • are more effective; • have fewer or less severe adverse side effects; • have better patient compliance; • receive better reimbursement terms; • are accepted by more physicians; • have better distribution channels; • are easier to administer; • are less expensive; or • are more cost effective. There is no assurance that Nucryst’s competitors will not succeed in developing alternative technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than those which have been or are being developed by Nucryst or that would render Nucryst’s technology and products obsolete and noncompetitive in these fields. Some of Nucryst’s competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have substantially greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, and other resources and larger research, development and regulatory staffs than Nucryst does. In addition, many of Nucryst’s competitors, either alone or together with their collaborators, have significantly greater experience than Nucryst does in discovering, developing, manufacturing and marketing products and may also have greater experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory clearances or approvals. As a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of their products, initiate or withstand substantial price competition or development costs, or more readily take advantage of acquisitions or other opportunities. Additional mergers and acquisitions, collaborations or other transactions, or the emergence or growth of other competitors in the medical device and pharmaceutical industries, may result in Nucryst’s competitors having even more resources. • Smith & Nephew, who previously was restricted by a non-competition clause, may now introduce other silver based products that compete with Acticoat™ products. Since May 2001, all of Nucryst’s revenues have been earned under the contracts with Smith & Nephew and Smith & Nephew is currently its only customer. Nucryst currently does not have any other products being sold in the marketplace other than the Acticoat™ products marketed by Smith & Nephew. Consequently, all of Nucryst’s revenue is received from Smith & Nephew and is principally comprised of royalties, which are calculated as a percentage of Smith & Nephew’s sales of Acticoat™ products, milestone payments, which are cash payments Nucryst receives upon the achievement by Smith & Nephew of certain sales goals or regulatory achievements relating to the Acticoat™ products, and payment of Nucryst’s costs incurred in manufacturing Acticoat™ products on a fixed price basis. The amount of Nucryst’s revenues is determined primarily by the level of sales of Acticoat™ products achieved by Smith & Nephew and, as a result, Nucryst’s revenues generally vary in proportion to increases or decreases in Smith & Nephew’s sales of its Acticoat™ products. Nucryst therefore depends and will continue to depend on Smith & Nephew to market and sell Acticoat™ products successfully. Nucryst is at risk of Smith & Nephew becoming less motivated to market Acticoat™ products due to any one of a number of factors, including other products marketed by Smith & Nephew having better profit margins, or achieving greater acceptance or popularity with health care providers, than the Acticoat™ products. On September 30, 2007, with the execution of revised agreements with Smith & Nephew, the magnitude of this risk increased due to the fact that a non-compete provision was removed from the revised agreements allowing Smith & Nephew to introduce other silver based serious wound care products, which it was previously restricted from doing, that could have an adverse effect on the sales of Acticoat™ products by Smith & Nephew. Since the execution of the new agreements with Nucryst, Smith & Nephew has introduced three new wound care products which use other forms of silver (Algisite Ag, Allevyn Ag and Biostep Ag). Nucryst believes that some of these new silver based wound care products will compliment the existing Acticoat™ products marketed by Smith & Nephew without impacting sales of Acticoat™ products, while others may be viewed by the advanced wound care 14 market as alternatives to certain Acticoat™ products, thereby potentially adversely affecting Acticoat™ product sales and ultimately Nucryst’s operating revenues in the foreseeable future. Nucryst is now at risk of the sales of Acticoat™ products failing to grow as they have in the past or declining due to the introduction by Smith & Nephew of new silver based serious wound care products especially to the extent that the new products have or are perceived to have better characteristics, lower prices or better profit margins than Acticoat™ products resulting in customers generally preferring the new products and Smith & Nephew generally focusing its sales and marketing efforts on the new products to the detriment of Acticoat™ products. If Smith & Nephew does not increase future sales of its Acticoat™ products, this would likely have a material adverse effect on Nucryst and on the market price of Westaim’s common shares. Nucryst’s future success depends in part on the launch of new Acticoat™ products by Smith & Nephew. Nucryst has worked in the past and intends to work in the future with Smith & Nephew on the development of such new products; however, the decision to develop or launch a new product, the timing of the development and launch and all related matters are entirely within Smith & Nephew’s discretion. In view of Smith & Nephew’s new ability to introduce other silver based serious wound care products under the revised agreements signed with Smith & Nephew as discussed above, Smith & Nephew may become less motivated to develop new Acticoat™ products with Nucryst and choose to focus instead on developing other silver based serious wound products. Therefore, while under the previous agreements in place with Smith & Nephew there could be no assurance that new products would be developed or launched at all or on the timeline or in a manner favorable to Nucryst, there can be even less assurance regarding those matters under the revised agreements entered into with Smith & Nephew on September 30, 2007. • If Nucryst is unable to effectively manage its expected future growth, it may develop too much production capacity resulting in a cost structure too high to permit cost-effective production of Acticoat™ products or it may develop production capacity too slowly and be unable to meet demand for Acticoat™ products with SILCRYST™ coatings and, in either event, Nucryst may be unable to develop or commercialize future products successfully. Nucryst currently manufactures Acticoat™ products with SILCRYST™ coatings in its manufacturing facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Alberta. At the end of the third quarter of 2005, Nucryst began construction of an expansion of its production facility with an estimated cost of approximately $5.7 million. Nucryst also hired additional employees to increase its production capacity. Nucryst is funding the up-front costs of the capital expenditures required to acquire the new production equipment associated with this expansion. Once Nucryst’s completes the expansion and starts using the new equipment to produce Acticoat™ products, Nucryst is entitled to recoup these costs over time from Smith & Nephew through reimbursement for depreciation expense, the payment of which are typically spread over a number of years. The capacity expansion became operational in the first quarter of 2008. Nucryst began this expansion based on forecasted production volumes of Acticoat™ products provided to it by Smith & Nephew but cannot guarantee that the production volumes will grow as forecasted or that it will be able to expand production capacity as planned, or at all. In this regard, Smith & Nephew has announced recently that market conditions in the advanced wound care market, including silver dressings segment, has become more competitive due to increased competition and customer cost containment efforts. Nucryst is uncertain as to whether or the extent to which this increased competition will have a negative impact on Acticoat™ product sales growth. If Nucryst completes the expansion and production volumes do not grow as forecasted by Smith & Nephew, it may not need the equipment, and therefore may not be able to begin recouping its up-front investment through reimbursement of depreciation expense from Smith & Nephew which could have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operation. Conversely, to the extent that Nucryst is successful in expanding production capacity, its ability to manage its operations and expected growth will require it to continue to improve its operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Nucryst may not be able to make such improvements in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Nucryst’s ability to develop and commercialize future products and compete effectively, and its future financial performance will depend, in part, on production volumes growing as forecasted and on its ability to manage any future growth effectively. However, there can be no assurance that Nucryst will be able to achieve sufficient manufacturing capabilities to satisfy demand for its current or new products in a cost-effective manner or to produce and sell the quantities necessary for it to operate profitably. • Nucryst currently purchases most of its raw materials from single suppliers. If Nucryst is unable to obtain raw materials and other products from suppliers that it depends on for its operations, then its ability to deliver its products to market may be impeded. Nucryst depends on suppliers for raw materials and other components that are subject to stringent regulatory requirements. Nucryst currently purchases most of its raw materials from single suppliers and the loss of any of these suppliers could result in a disruption in its production. If this were to occur, it may be difficult to arrange a replacement supplier, because certain of these materials may only be available from one or a limited number of sources. Nucryst’s suppliers may encounter problems during manufacturing due to a variety of reasons, including failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, failure to comply with applicable regulations, equipment malfunction and environmental factors. In addition, establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these materials may take a substantial period of time, as certain of these suppliers must be approved by regulatory authorities. If Nucryst is unable to secure on a timely basis sufficient quantities of the materials it depends on to manufacture Acticoat™ products, if Nucryst encounters delays or contractual or other difficulties in its relationships with these suppliers, or if Nucryst cannot find replacement 15 suppliers at an acceptable cost, then the manufacture of Acticoat™ products may be disrupted, which could increase Nucryst’s costs and have a materially adverse effect on its revenues. • Smith & Nephew may be unable to maintain existing regulatory approvals or obtain new regulatory approvals for the Acticoat™ products that it currently sells, which would negatively affect Nucryst’s results of operations. Nucryst’s future products may not be approved by the regulatory agencies, and any failure or delay associated with Nucryst’s product development and clinical trials or the agencies’ approval would increase its product development costs and time to market. Smith & Nephew is required to maintain regulatory approvals to sell the Acticoat™ products that it currently sells and to obtain additional regulatory approvals for those current products to sell them in any new markets. All of Nucryst’s future products will also require regulatory approval before it or any collaborator is allowed to market and sell them. Nucryst expects the regulatory approval process to be lengthy and expensive and it will have the burden of proving that its products are safe and effective. Satisfying regulatory requirements may cause Nucryst’s products to become prohibitively expensive. Nucryst cannot provide assurance that Smith & Nephew will be able to maintain existing regulatory approvals for the Acticoat™ products it now sells or obtain new regulatory approvals, or that the conditions imposed by regulators will not adversely affect Smith & Nephew’s ability to market those products. Regulatory requirements imposed on products could limit Smith & Nephew’s ability to commercialize its product and Nucryst’s ability to test, manufacture and commercialize its products. Loss of these approvals or an inability to obtain approvals could have a material adverse effect on Nucryst’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive, can take many years and have uncertain outcomes. In addition, the regulatory approval procedures vary among countries and additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions. It usually takes at least several years to complete the requisite pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, and a product candidate may fail at any stage of testing. Difficulties and risks associated with pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may result in failure to receive regulatory approval or inability to commercialize products for new indications. Clinical trials may be suspended or terminated at any time due to the actions of the FDA, other regulatory authorities, the Company’s collaborators, or due to Nucryst’s own actions. The commencement and completion of Nucryst’s clinical trials could be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: • delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, including approvals by the competent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee, or EC, to commence or continue a study; • delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; • insufficient quantities of the study product; • scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or the inability to reach full enrollment; • improper enrollment practices resulting in protocol management problems and statistical analysis problems; • inconclusive or negative interim results during clinical trials, including lack of effectiveness or unforeseen safety issues; • death of, or serious adverse effects experienced by, one or more patients during a clinical trial even if the reasons are not related to the study product candidate, including the advanced stage of the patient’s disease or medical condition; • uncertain dosing issues; • inability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; • inability or unwillingness of contract laboratories to follow good laboratory practices or of Nucryst’s clinical investigators and Nucryst to follow good clinical practices; • the occurrence of adverse events during the clinical trials; • inability or unwillingness of clinical investigators to follow Nucryst’s clinical protocols or good clinical practices generally; • inability or unwillingness of patients to follow Nucryst’s clinical protocols; and • inability or unwillingness of other third parties to perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner. Delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals may: • delay or prevent the commercialization of any product that Nucryst develops for new indications or any product within an already approved indication for which the submission of additional clinical trial data is required; • in the case of delays, materially and adversely increase the cost of completing the development of such product and obtaining regulatory approval to market it; 16 • diminish any competitive advantages; and • adversely affect Nucryst’s ability to attract new collaborators. • Completion of clinical trials does not guarantee successful commercialization of future products. Completion of clinical trials does not guarantee successful commercialization, for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to the following factors: • clinical trials can have negative or inconclusive results; • regulators may not agree with Nucryst’s results or its analysis of the safety or the efficacy of its products; • there is a risk of unsuccessful commercialization even after a product has been launched into the market, for example due to unexpected side effects of the product which were not discovered during clinical trials; and • the market may fail to respond positively to a product for a variety of factors outside Nucryst’s control, including but not limited to inadequate or unsuccessful marketing efforts by third parties on which Nucryst depends but cannot control, competition from other products, cost, reimbursement policies of third-party payors or the buying decisions of consumers for a variety of unforeseen reasons, including those unrelated to efficacy. • Nucryst’s ability to commercialize its medical products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations and there can be no assurance that adequate third party coverage will be available for Nucryst to realize an appropriate return on its investment in product development. Nucryst’s revenues currently depend in part and will continue to depend upon the reimbursement rates established by third-party payors, including government health administration authorities, managed-care providers, public health insurers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, and examining the cost-effectiveness, of medical products and services. Cost control initiatives could decrease the established reimbursement rates that Nucryst receives for any products in the future, which would limit its revenues. Legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceutical products or medical devices, including the Acticoat™ products, may change at any time, which could limit or eliminate reimbursement rates for Acticoat™ or other products. If physicians, hospitals and other users of Acticoat™ products or any products Nucryst develops in the future fail to obtain sufficient reimbursement from healthcare payors for these products, or if adverse changes occur in governmental and private third-party payors’ policies toward reimbursement for these products, it could negatively affect the demand for these products, which could have a material adverse effect on Nucryst’s results of operations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status, if any, of newly approved pharmaceutical or medical device products, and Nucryst has no assurance that adequate or any third-party coverage will be provided for any new products introduced by it. If Nucryst’s new products do not receive adequate coverage and reimbursement, the market acceptance of these products would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on Nucryst’s results of operations. Nucryst may need to conduct post-marketing clinical trials in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of products. Such studies may require Nucryst to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Future products may not be reimbursed or covered by any of these third-party payors for Nucryst’s targeted indications. In many foreign markets, particularly countries in the European Union and Canada, the pricing of medical products is subject to governmental control. In these countries, obtaining pricing approval from governmental authorities can take many months and sometimes years to obtain. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, Nucryst may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of a product to other available therapies. If reimbursement of such products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, then Nucryst’s revenues could be reduced. In the United States, there have been, and Nucryst expects that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental pricing controls. Nucryst cannot provide assurance that the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 will not have a significant effect on pricing or reimbursement for the pharmaceutical products that Nucryst is developing. • Nucryst performs and manages its clinical trials rather than relying on third-party clinical research organizations, or CROs, and since Nucryst does not have extensive experience in this area, there may be delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials that comply with regulatory requirements. Nucryst may not have the experience or the capability to take a product through the entire research and development process. Specifically, Nucryst may not be able to take a product through pre-clinical development, clinical trials management, clinical data management, study 17 design, biostatistical analysis, central laboratory and regulatory affairs. Thus, Nucryst may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize, its product candidates. Further, Nucryst may not perform its clinical trials in accordance with good clinical and laboratory practices, as required by the applicable regulatory authorities. If Nucryst’s clinical trials fail to comply with these regulatory practices, it may be unable to use the data from those trials. Consequently, Nucryst’s clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. Nucryst also may not be able to run its clinical trials as efficiently as a CRO and therefore it may experience a longer and more costly product development phase. This increase in the product development phase may subsequently reduce Nucryst’s period of patent exclusivity, and in turn diminish its potential economic returns. A failure on the part of Nucryst to properly manage the above risks, or any other risks it is subject to, will have an adverse impact on the value of the Company’s investment in Nucryst. 