Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements we make about our business. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged. The table below shows our level of indebtedness and other information as of December 31, 2011. In connection with the consummation of our acquisition of Triad in July 2007, approximately $7.2 billion of senior secured financing under a new credit facility, or the Credit Facility, was obtained by our wholly-owned subsidiary, CHS/Community Health Systems, Inc., or CHS. CHS also issued 8.875% senior notes, or the 8 7/8% Senior Notes, having an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.0 billion. Both the indebtedness under the Credit Facility and the 8 7/8% Senior Notes are senior obligations of CHS and are guaranteed on a senior basis by us and by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. We used the net proceeds from the 8 7/8% Senior Notes offering and the net proceeds of the approximately $6.1 billion term loans under the Credit Facility to pay the consideration under the merger agreement with Triad, to refinance certain of our existing indebtedness and the indebtedness of Triad, to complete certain related transactions, to pay certain costs and expenses of the transactions and for general corporate uses. As of December 31, 2011, a $750 million revolving credit facility was available to us for working capital and general corporate purposes under the Credit Facility, with $37.7 million of the revolving credit facility being set aside for outstanding letters of credit and $30.0 million outstanding at December 31, 2011. On November 5, 2010, we entered into an amendment and restatement of our existing Credit Facility, which extended by two and a half years, until January 25, 2017, the maturity date of $1.5 billion of our existing term loans under the Credit Facility. In addition, effective February 2, 2012, we completed an additional amendment and restatement of the Credit Facility, which extended by two and a half years the maturity date of an additional $1.6 billion of our existing non-extended term loans under the Credit Facility, until January 25, 2017 (subject to customary acceleration events) or, if more than $50 million of our 8 7/8% Senior Notes are outstanding on April 15, 2015, to April 15, 2015. The remaining approximately $2.9 billion in term loans mature in 2014. On November 22, 2011, CHS completed its offering of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 8% Senior Notes, or the 8% Senior Notes, which were issued in a private placement. The net proceeds from this issuance, together with available cash on hand, were used to finance the purchase of up to $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of outstanding 8 7/8% Senior Notes and related fees and expenses. The 8% Senior Notes are unsecured senior obligations of CHS and are guaranteed on a senior basis by us and by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. With the exception of some small principal payments of our term loans under our Credit Facility, representing less than 1% of the outstanding balance each year through 2013, approximately $2.9 billion of term loans under our Credit Facility mature in 2014, our 8 7/8% Senior Notes are due in 2015, the remaining $3.1 billion in term loans mature in 2017 and our 8% Senior Notes are due in 2019. December 31,2011 ($ in millions) Senior secured credit facility term loans $ 5,949.4 Revolving credit facility 30.0 8 7/8% Senior Notes 1,777.6 8% Senior Notes 1,000.0 Other 89.5 Total debt $ 8,846.5 Community Health Systems, Inc. stockholders’ equity $ 2,397.1 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As of December 31, 2011, our approximately $4.9 billion notional amount of interest rate swap agreements represented approximately 82% of our variable rate debt. On a prospective basis, a 1% change in interest rates on the remaining unhedged variable rate debt existing as of December 31, 2011, would result in interest expense fluctuating approximately $11.0 million per year. The Credit Facility and/or both of the 8 7/8% Senior Notes and the 8% Senior Notes, or collectively known as the Senior Notes, contain various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness, • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock, • repurchase capital stock, • make restricted payments, including paying dividends and making investments, • redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to the Senior Notes, • create liens, • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries, • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries, • merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of substantial portions of our assets, • enter into transactions with affiliates and • guarantee certain obligations. In addition, our Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these restrictive covenants and financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. The counterparty to the interest rate swap agreements exposes us to credit risk in the event of non-performance. However, at December 31, 2011, we do not anticipate non-performance by the counterparty due to the net settlement feature of the agreements and our liability position with respect to each of our counterparties. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Credit Facility and/or the Senior Notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our Credit Facility or the Senior Notes, all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility and the Senior Notes may become immediately due and payable and all commitments under the Credit Facility to extend further credit may be terminated. Our leverage could have important consequences for you, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities, • the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • some of our borrowings, including borrowings under our Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt and • we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is a measure of our ability to meet our fixed obligations related to our indebtedness. The following table shows the ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1) 1.21x 1.47x 1.60x 1.69x 1.61x (1) Fixed charges include interest expensed and capitalized during the year plus an estimate of the interest component of rent expense. There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. See exhibit 12 filed as part of this Report for the calculation of this ratio. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing the Senior Notes do not fully prohibit us from doing so. For example, under the indentures for the 8 7/8% Senior Notes and the 8% Senior Notes, we may incur up to approximately $7.8 billion pursuant to a credit facility or a qualified receivables transaction, less certain amounts repaid with the proceeds of asset dispositions. As of December 31, 2011, our Credit Facility provided for commitments of up to approximately $6.7 billion in the aggregate. Additionally, our Credit Facility also gives us the ability to provide for one or more additional tranches of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of up to $1.0 billion without the consent of the existing lenders if specified criteria are satisfied and for up to $300 million of borrowing capacity from receivable transactions (including securitizations). If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could be further exacerbated. If competition decreases our ability to acquire additional hospitals on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy. An important part of our business strategy is to acquire two to four hospitals each year. However, not-for-profit hospital systems and other for-profit hospital companies generally attempt to acquire the same type of hospital as we do. Some of these other purchasers have greater financial resources than us. Our principal competitors for acquisitions have included Health Management Associates, Inc. and LifePoint Hospitals, Inc. On some occasions, we also compete with HCA Holdings Inc., Universal Health Services, Inc., other non-public, for-profit hospitals and local market hospitals. In addition, some hospitals are sold through an auction process, which may result in higher purchase prices than we believe are reasonable. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire additional hospitals on terms favorable to us. If we fail to improve the operations of acquired hospitals, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. Many of the hospitals we have acquired had, or future acquisitions may have, significantly lower operating margins than we do and/or operating losses prior to the time we acquired or will acquire them. In the past, we have occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of these acquired hospitals. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of acquired hospitals, operate them profitably, or effectively integrate their operations, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we generally seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters, we may nevertheless have material liabilities for past activities of acquired hospitals. State efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of hospitals could prevent us from acquiring additional hospitals, renovating our facilities or expanding the breadth of services we offer. Some states require prior approval for the construction or acquisition of healthcare facilities and for the expansion of healthcare facilities and services. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. In some states in which we operate, we are required to obtain CONs for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services and some other matters. Other states may adopt similar legislation. We may not be able to obtain the required CONs or other prior approvals for additional or expanded facilities in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a hospital, we may agree to replace or expand the facility we are acquiring. If we are not able to obtain required prior approvals, we would not be able to replace or expand the facility and expand the breadth of services we offer. Furthermore, if a CON or other prior approval, upon which we relied to invest in construction of a replacement or expanded facility, were to be revoked or lost through an appeal process, then we may not be able to recover the value of our investment. State efforts to regulate the sale of hospitals operated by not-for-profit entities could prevent us from acquiring additional hospitals and executing our business strategy. Many states, including some where we have hospitals and others where we may in the future acquire hospitals, have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by not-for-profit entities. In other states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligations to protect the use of charitable assets. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller. While these review and, in some instances, approval processes can add additional time to the closing of a hospital acquisition, we have not had any significant difficulties or delays in completing acquisitions. However, future actions on the state level could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals. If we are unable to effectively compete for patients, local residents could use other hospitals. The hospital industry is highly competitive. In addition to the competition we face for acquisitions and physicians, we must also compete with other hospitals and healthcare providers for patients. The competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. The majority of our hospitals are located in non-urban service areas. In over 60% of our markets, we are the sole provider of general acute care health services. In most of our other markets, the primary competitor is a not-for-profit hospital. These not-for-profit hospitals generally differ in each jurisdiction. However, our hospitals face competition from hospitals outside of their primary service area, including hospitals in urban areas that provide more complex services. Patients in our primary service areas may travel to these other hospitals for a variety of reasons. These reasons include physician referrals or the need for services we do not offer. Patients who seek services from these other hospitals may subsequently shift their preferences to those hospitals for the services we provide. Some of our hospitals operate in primary service areas where they compete with one other hospital; 25 of our hospitals compete with more than one other hospital in their respective primary service areas. Some of these competing hospitals use equipment and services more specialized than those available at our hospitals. In addition, some competing hospitals are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals do not pay income or property taxes, and can make capital expenditures without paying sales tax. We also face competition from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers. We expect that these competitive trends will continue. Our inability to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers could cause local residents to use other hospitals. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The failure to obtain our medical supplies at favorable prices could cause our operating results to decline. We have a participation agreement with HealthTrust, a GPO. This agreement extends to January 2013, with automatic renewal terms of one year, unless either party terminates by giving notice of non-renewal. GPOs attempt to obtain favorable pricing on medical supplies with manufacturers and vendors who sometimes negotiate exclusive supply arrangements in exchange for the discounts they give. To the extent these exclusive supply arrangements are challenged or deemed unenforceable, we could incur higher costs for our medical supplies obtained through HealthTrust. These higher costs could cause our operating results to decline. There can be no assurance that our arrangement with HealthTrust will provide the discounts we expect to achieve. If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $4.3 billion of goodwill recorded on our books. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate, based on the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. A significant decline in operating results or other indicators of impairment at one or more of our facilities could result in a material, non-cash charge to earnings to impair the value of long-lived assets. Our operations are capital intensive and require significant investment in long-lived assets, such as property, equipment and other long-lived intangible assets, including capitalized internal-use software. If one of our facilities experiences declining operating results or is adversely impacted by one or more of these risk factors, we may not be able to recover the carrying value of those assets through our future operating cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate whether changes in future undiscounted cash flows reflect an impairment in the fair value of our long-lived assets. If the carrying value of those assets is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. Risks related to our industry We are subject to uncertainties regarding healthcare reform. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have introduced an increasing number of proposals to make major changes in the healthcare system, including an increased emphasis on the linkage between quality of care criteria and payment levels such as the submission of patient quality data to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. In addition, CMS conducts ongoing reviews of certain state reimbursement programs. ARRA was signed into law on February 17, 2009, providing for a temporary increase in the federal matching assistance percentage (FMAP), a temporary increase in federal Medicaid DSH allotments, subsidization of health insurance premiums (COBRA) for up to nine months and grants and loans for infrastructure and incentive payments for providers who adopt and use health information technology. This act also provides penalties by reducing reimbursement from Medicare in the form of reductions to scheduled market basket increases beginning in federal fiscal year 2015 if eligible hospitals and professionals fail to demonstrate meaningful use of electronic health record technology. PPACA was signed into law on March 23, 2010. In addition, the Reconciliation Act, which contains a number of amendments to PPACA, was signed into law on March 30, 2010. These two healthcare acts, referred to collectively as the Reform Legislation, include a mandate that requires substantially all U.S. citizens to maintain medical insurance coverage which will ultimately increase the number of persons with access to health insurance in the United States. The Reform Legislation should result in a reduction in uninsured patients, which should reduce our expense from uncollectible accounts receivable; however, this legislation makes a number of other changes to Medicare and Medicaid, such as reductions to the Medicare annual market basket update for federal fiscal years 2010 through 2019, a productivity offset to the Medicare market basket update which began October 1, 2011, and a reduction to the Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share payments, that could adversely impact the reimbursement received under these programs. The various provisions in the Reform Legislation that directly or indirectly affect reimbursement are scheduled to take effect over a number of years, and we cannot predict their impact at this time. Other provisions of the Reform Legislation, such as requirements related to employee health insurance coverage, should increase our operating costs. 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Also included in the Reform Legislation are provisions aimed at reducing fraud, waste and abuse in the healthcare industry. These provisions allocate significant additional resources to federal enforcement agencies and expand the use of private contractors to recover potentially inappropriate Medicare and Medicaid payments. The Reform Legislation amends several existing federal laws, including the Medicare Anti-Kickback Statute and the False Claims Act, making it easier for government agencies and private plaintiffs to prevail in lawsuits brought against healthcare providers. These amendments also make it easier for potentially severe fines and penalties to be imposed on healthcare providers accused of violating applicable laws and regulations. In a number of markets, we have partnered with local physicians in the ownership of our facilities. Such investments have been permitted under an exception to the physician self-referral law, or the Stark Law, that allows physicians to invest in an entire hospital (as opposed to individual hospital departments). The Reform Legislation changes the “whole hospital” exception to the Stark Law. The Reform Legislation permits existing physician investments in a whole hospital to continue under a “grandfather” clause if the arrangement satisfies certain requirements and restrictions, but physicians became prohibited, from the time the Reform Legislation became effective, from increasing the aggregate percentage of their ownership in the hospital. The Reform Legislation also restricts the ability of existing physician-owned hospitals to expand the capacity of their facilities. Physician investments in hospitals that are under development are protected by the grandfather clause only if the physician investments have been made and the hospital has a Medicare provider agreement as of a specific date. The impact of the Reform Legislation on each of our hospitals will vary depending on payor mix and a variety of other factors. We anticipate that many of the provisions in the Reform Legislation will be subject to further clarification and modification through the rule-making process, the development of agency guidance and judicial interpretations. In particular, the Supreme Court of the United States has accepted an appeal of one of the many cases challenging various aspects, including constitutionality of the Reform Legislation. We cannot predict the impact the Reform Legislation may have on our business, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources and liquidity or the ultimate outcome of the judicial rulings. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether we will be able to modify certain aspects of our operations to offset any potential adverse consequences from the Reform Legislation. If federal or state healthcare programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for services we provide, our net operating revenues may decline. In 2011, 36.5% of our net operating revenues came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Federal healthcare expenditures continue to increase and state governments continue to face budgetary shortfalls as a result of the current economic downturn and accelerating Medicaid enrollment. As a result, federal and state governments have made, and continue to make, significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some of these changes have decreased, or could decrease, the amount of money we receive for our services relating to these programs. In addition, insurance and managed care companies and other third parties from whom we receive payment for our services increasingly are attempting to control healthcare costs by requiring that hospitals discount payments for their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We believe that this trend may continue and our inability to negotiate increased reimbursement rates or maintain existing rates may reduce the payments we receive for our services. If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, maintenance of adequate records, compliance with building codes, environmental protection and privacy. These laws include, in part, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and a section of the Social Security Act, known as the “anti-kickback” statute. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, there are heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry, including the hospital segment. Recent enforcement actions have focused on financial arrangements between hospitals and physicians, billing for services without adequately documenting the medical necessity for such services and billing for services outside the coverage guidelines for such services. Specific to our hospitals, we have received inquiries and subpoenas from various governmental agencies regarding these and other matters, and we are also subject to various claims and lawsuits relating to such matters. For a further discussion of these matters, see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of this Report. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. A shortage of qualified nurses could limit our ability to grow and deliver hospital healthcare services in a cost-effective manner. Hospitals are currently experiencing a shortage of nursing professionals, a trend which we expect to continue for some time. If the supply of qualified nurses declines in the markets in which our hospitals operate, it may result in increased labor expenses and lower operating margins at those hospitals. In addition, in some markets like California, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, the healthcare services that we provide in these markets may be reduced. If we become subject to significant legal actions, we could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability, or related legal theories. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages, litigants are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to the caps on damages. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain claims made professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in excess of those amounts for which we are self-insured. This insurance coverage is in amounts that we believe to be sufficient for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover all claims against us or may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. As a percentage of net operating revenues, our expense related to malpractice and other professional liability claims, including the cost of excess insurance, increased in 2009 by 0.2%, decreased in 2010 by 0.2% and decreased in 2011 by 0.2%. If these costs rise rapidly, our profitability could decline. For a further discussion of our insurance coverage, see our discussion of professional liability claims in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Report. If we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenues, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced an increase in our provision for bad debts as a percentage of net operating revenues due to a growth in self-pay volume and revenues. Although we continue to seek ways of improving point of service collection efforts and implementing appropriate payment plans with our patients, if we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenues, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay patients may be limited by statutory, regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. Currently, the global economies, and in particular the United States, are experiencing a period of economic uncertainty and the related financial markets are experiencing a high degree of volatility. This current financial turmoil is adversely affecting the banking system and financial markets and resulting in a tightening in the credit 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This uncertainty poses a risk as it could potentially lead to higher levels of uninsured patients, result in higher levels of patients covered by lower paying government programs and/or result in fiscal uncertainties at both government payors and private insurers. If our implementation of electronic health record systems is not effective or exceeds our budget and timeline, our consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected. ARRA created an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals to adopt and meaningfully use certified electronic health records, or EHR, technology. The implementation of EHR that meets the meaningful use criteria requires a significant capital investment, and our current plan to implement EHR anticipates maximizing the incentive payment program created by ARRA. If our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems. As additional incentive, beginning in federal fiscal year 2015, if eligible hospitals and professionals fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology, they will be penalized with reduced reimbursement from Medicare in the form of reductions to scheduled market basket increases. If we fail to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner, there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. This Report includes forward-looking statements which could differ from actual future results. Some of the matters discussed in this Report include forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “thinks,” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include the following: • general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the regions in which we operate, • implementation and effect of adopted and potential federal and state healthcare legislation, • risks associated with our substantial indebtedness, leverage and debt service obligations, • demographic changes, • changes in, or the failure to comply with, governmental regulations, • potential adverse impact of known and unknown government investigations, audits, and Federal and State False Claims Act litigation and other legal proceedings, • our ability, where appropriate, to enter into and maintain managed care provider arrangements and the terms of these arrangements, • changes in, or the failure to comply with, managed care provider contracts could result in disputes and changes in reimbursement that could be applied retroactively, • changes in inpatient or outpatient Medicare and Medicaid payment levels, • increases in the amount and risk of collectability of patient accounts receivable, • increases in wages as a result of inflation or competition for highly technical positions and rising supply costs due to market pressure from pharmaceutical companies and new product releases, 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • liabilities and other claims asserted against us, including self-insured malpractice claims, • competition, • our ability to attract and retain, without significant employment costs, qualified personnel, key management, physicians, nurses and other healthcare workers, • trends toward treatment of patients in less acute or specialty healthcare settings, including ambulatory surgery centers or specialty hospitals, • changes in medical or other technology, • changes in U.S. GAAP, • the availability and terms of capital to fund additional acquisitions or replacement facilities, • our ability to successfully acquire additional hospitals or complete divestitures, • our ability to successfully integrate any acquired hospitals or to recognize expected synergies from such acquisitions, • our ability to obtain adequate levels of general and professional liability insurance and • timeliness of reimbursement payments received under government programs. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our goals will be achieved. Given these uncertainties, prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this filing. We assume no obligation to update or revise them or provide reasons why actual results may differ. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 