Item 1A: Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS A number of the matters and subject areas discussed in this Form 10-K are forward-looking in nature. The discussion of such matters and subject areas is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally. SMTC cautions readers that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report on Form 10-K regarding SMTC’s financial position and business strategy may constitute forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are based upon estimates and assumptions made by SMTC’s management, which although believed to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain. Therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on such estimates and statements. No assurance can be given that any of such estimates or statements will be realized, and it is possible that actual results will differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include: (1) increased competition; (2) increased costs; (3) the inability to implement our business plan and maintain covenant compliance under our credit agreements; (4) the loss or retirement of key members of management; (5) increases in SMTC’s cost of borrowings or lack of availability of additional debt or equity capital on terms considered reasonable by management; (6) adverse state, federal or foreign legislation or regulation or adverse determinations by regulators; (7) changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which SMTC may compete and fluctuations in demand in the electronics industry; (8) the inability to manage inventory levels efficiently in light of changes in market conditions; and (9) the inability to sustain historical margins as the industry develops. SMTC has attempted to identify certain of the factors that it currently believes may cause actual future experiences to differ from SMTC’s current expectations regarding the relevant matter or subject area. In addition to the items specifically discussed in the foregoing, SMTC’s business and results of operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties described under the heading “Factors That May Affect Future Results” below. The operations and results of SMTC’s business may also be subject to the effect of other risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, items described from time to time in SMTC’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY The financial markets have constricted in recent years. If we attempt to obtain future financing or renegotiate our current financing, the constriction of the credit market could negatively impact our ability to obtain such financing. In addition, the constriction of the credit market could negatively impact certain of our customers, certain of their customers, and our suppliers. These impacts could lead to a decrease in demand for our products, as well as our customers’ products, or a decrease in supply of our inputs, which could result in a negative effect on our results of operations or they could result in customers having insufficient financing to support their business. We are exposed to general economic conditions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of unfavorable economic conditions, reduced capital spending and changes in our customers’ manufacturing requirements, our sales declined during fiscal years 2002 to 2005, in 2009 and in 2011. If general economic conditions deteriorate we may experience an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, since end customer demand for our customers’ products could be adversely affected. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the economy and the Company’s ability to predict the effect such conditions will have on its customers, the Company cannot predict the scope or magnitude of the negative effect that such economic slowdown will have on it A majority of our revenue comes from a small number of customers; if we lose any of our larger customers, our revenue could decline significantly. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic marketplace in which current and prospective customers often seek to lower their costs through a competitive bidding process among EMS providers. This process creates an opportunity to increase revenue to the extent we are successful in the bidding process, however, there is also the potential for revenue decline to the extent we are unsuccessful in the process. Furthermore, even if we are successful, there is the potential for our margins to decrease. 13 Two of our largest customers represented 36% and 12% of total revenue, respectively for the year ended December 30, 2012. Our top ten largest customers collectively represented 88% of our total revenue for the year. Although the business has become more diversified, we expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. In addition to having a limited number of customers, we manufacture a limited number of products for each of our customers. If we lose any of our largest customers or any product line manufactured for one of our largest customers, we would experience a significant reduction in our revenue. The insolvency of one or more of our largest customers or the inability of one or more of our largest customers to pay for its orders would decrease revenue. As many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in net revenue can decrease our profitability and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in currencies, particularly the weakening of the US dollar. Most of our sales and component purchases are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our Canadian, Mexican and Asian payroll, Euro based component purchases and other various expenses are denominated in local currencies. As a result, commencing in fiscal 2011, the Company entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to foreign exchange currency rate fluctuations related to forecasted Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. Our industry is very competitive and we may not be successful if we fail to compete effectively. The electronics manufacturing services (EMS) industry is highly competitive. We compete against numerous large domestic and foreign EMS providers including Celestica Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Sanmina-SCI, Inc., Benchmark Electronics Inc. and Plexus Corp. In addition, we compete against numerous smaller competitors. We may in the future encounter competition from additional large electronics manufacturers that are selling, or may begin to sell, electronics manufacturing services. Some of our competitors have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources and lower cost structures than us. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of current and potential customers, which are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally versus the advantages of using external manufacturers. We may experience variability in our operating results, which could negatively impact the price of our shares. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated in the past. The reasons for these fluctuations may similarly impact our business in the future. Prospective investors should not rely on results of operations in any past period to indicate what our results will be for any future period. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including: • variations in the timing and volume of customer orders relative to our manufacturing capacity; • variations in the timing of shipments of products to customers; • introduction and market acceptance of our customers’ new products; • changes in demand for our customers’ existing products; • the accuracy of our customers’ forecasts of future production requirements; • changes in customers and customer or product attrition; • effectiveness in managing our manufacturing processes, inventory levels and costs; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally or in our customers’ markets; • willingness of suppliers to supply the Company on normal credit terms; and • changes in the cost or availability of components or skilled labor. In addition, most of our customers typically do not commit to firm production schedules more than 30 to 90 days in advance. Accordingly, it is difficult for us to forecast the level of customer orders with certainty. As a result, we may not be able to schedule production to maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In the past, we have been required to increase staffing, purchase materials and incur other expenses to meet the anticipated demand of our customers. Sometimes anticipated orders from certain customers have failed to materialize, and at times delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in a customer’s needs. Any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from our larger customers could cause our revenue to decline. In addition, as many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can decrease our gross margins and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On other occasions, customers have required rapid and unexpected increases in production, which have placed burdens on our manufacturing capacity and supply chain function and adversely affected costs. 14 Any of these factors or a combination of these factors could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which produces technologically advanced products with short life cycles. Most of our customers are in the electronics industry, which is characterized by intense competition, short product life-cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand. In addition, the electronics industry is generally subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. If our customers are unable to create products that keep pace with the changing technological environment, their products could become obsolete and the demand for our services could significantly decline. Our success is largely dependent on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. Furthermore, the electronics industry is subject to economic cycles and has in the past experienced downturns. A decline in the electronics industry would likely have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation in the electronics industry may adversely affect our business by increasing customer buying power or increasing competition. Consolidation in the electronics industry among our competitors, our customers, or both may result in increasing or strengthening large electronics companies. The significant buying and market power of these companies may increase competitive pressures on us. In addition, if any of our large customers is acquired or merged with another provider of similar services, we may lose that customer’s business. Shortages or price fluctuations of component parts specified by our customers could delay product shipment and affect our profitability. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from “turnkey” manufacturing. In turnkey manufacturing, we provide both the materials and the manufacturing services. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may bear the risk of fluctuations in materials costs, scrap and excess inventory, all of which can have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, delays, cancellations or reductions of orders by our customers could result in an excess of materials. Orders received from customers within component lead time, rapid increases in orders or lengthening of lead times by suppliers could cause a shortage of materials. A shortage of materials could lengthen production schedules and increase costs. An excess of materials may increase the costs of maintaining inventory and may increase the risk of inventory obsolescence, both of which may increase expenses and decrease profit margins and operating income. Many of the products we manufacture require one or more components that we order from sole-source suppliers. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay production of all products using that component or cause cost increases in the services we provide. In addition, in the past, some of the materials we use, such as memory and logic devices, have been subject to industry-wide shortages. As a result, suppliers allocate available quantities among their customers, and we have not been able to obtain all of the materials required. Our inability to obtain these materials could slow production or assembly, delay shipments to our customers, increase costs and reduce operating income. Also, we may bear the risk of periodic component price increases, which could reduce operating income. In addition, we rely on a variety of common carriers for materials transportation, and we route materials through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of a major port or airport could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to respond to rapidly changing technology and process development, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing process development. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to develop and market services that meet changing customer needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. In addition, the EMS industry could in the future encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render existing technology less competitive or obsolete or that reduce the demand for our services. There can be no assurance that we will effectively respond to the technological requirements of the changing market. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of such technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. There can be no assurance that capital will be available for these purposes in the future or that investments in new technologies will result in commercially viable technological processes. 15 If our components and or products are defective, demand for our services may decline and we may be exposed to product liability and product warranty liability. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, engineering, manufacturing or component failure or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, could result in product or component failures, which may damage our business reputation, and expose us to product liability or product warranty claims. Although, generally liability for these claims in our contracts rest with our customers, our customers may not, or may not have the resources to, satisfy claims for costs or liabilities arising from a defective product or component for which they have assumed responsibility. If our product or component is found to cause any personal injury or property damage or is otherwise found to be defective, we could incur significant expenditures to resolve the claim. A successful product liability or product warranty claim could have a material adverse effect on our business and its results. We may encounter significant delays or defaults in payments owed to us by customers for products we have manufactured or components that are unique to particular customers. We structure our agreements with customers to mitigate our risks related to obsolete or unsold inventory. However, enforcement of these contracts may result in material expense and delay in payment for inventory. If any of our significant customers become unable or unwilling to purchase such inventory, our business may be materially harmed. We are subject to the risk of increased taxes. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such additional taxes. Our business will suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and skilled employees. Our business depends on our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain skilled employees, particularly executive management, engineering and sales personnel. Recruiting personnel in our industry is highly competitive. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to attract and retain management and existing employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain executive officers and key personnel or attract qualified management in the future. In addition, if we receive a significant volume of new orders at any one time, we may have difficulty recruiting skilled workers to respond to such orders and accordingly may experience delays that could adversely affect our ability to meet customers’ delivery schedules. Risks particular to our international manufacturing operations could adversely affect our overall results. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • fluctuations in the value of currencies and high levels of inflation; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting amounts receivable; • reduced credit and payment terms with vendors; • unexpected changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political and economic instability; • increases in duties and taxation; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; and • trade restrictions We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, which expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because we use metals and other hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. We may be liable under environmental laws for the cost of cleaning up properties we own or operate if they are or become contaminated by the release of hazardous materials, regardless of whether we caused such release. In addition we may be liable for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, if such sites become contaminated, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. In the event of a contamination or violation of environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages including fines, penalties and the costs of remedial actions and could also be subject to revocation of our discharge permits. Any such revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby having an adverse effect on our operations. Environmental laws could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or locations, or delay production, and the inherent difficulties involved in responding to these demands could harm our business. Our industry must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround for its customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and we continue to experience reduced lead-times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or change their sourcing strategy for a number of reasons. Such changes, delays and cancellations may lead to our production and possession of excess or obsolete inventory which we may not be able to sell to the customer or a third party. The success of our customers’ products in the market affects our business. Cancellations, reductions, delays or changes in sourcing strategy by a significant customer or by a group of customers could negatively impact our operating results by reducing the number of products that we sell, delaying the payment to us for inventory that we purchased and reducing the use of our manufacturing facilities which have associated fixed costs not dependent on our level of revenue. In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to accurately estimate the future requirements of those customers. On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production, which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross profits and operating results. Intellectual property infringement claims against our customers or us could harm our business. Our design and manufacturing services offerings involve the creation and use of intellectual property rights, which subject us to the risk of claims of intellectual property infringement from third parties, as well as claims arising from the allocation of intellectual property rights among us and our customers. In addition, our customers may require that we indemnify them against the risk of intellectual property infringement. If any claims are brought against us or our customers for such infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defense of such claims. In the event of such an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or obtaining such licenses on reasonable terms or at all. If OEMs stop or reduce their manufacturing and supply chain outsourcing, our business could suffer. Future growth in our revenues depends on new outsourcing opportunities in which we assume additional manufacturing and supply chain management responsibilities from OEMs. Current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our capabilities against other providers and the merits of manufacturing products themselves. To the extent that outsourcing opportunities are not available, either because OEMs decide to perform these functions internally or because they use other providers of these services, our future growth would be limited. From time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings. In the past, we have been notified of claims relating to various matters including intellectual property rights, contractual matters or other issues arising in the ordinary course of business. In the event of such a claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to defend or otherwise address the claim. Any litigation, even where a claim is without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Accordingly, the resolution or adjudication of such disputes, even those encountered in the ordinary course of business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial conditions and results of operations. 17 RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. On September 22, 2011, the Company signed a Revolving Credit and Security Agreement with PNC Bank, National Association and its Canadian branch (collectively, “PNC”). This revolving credit facility (the “PNC Facility”) replaced the previous revolving loan agreement with Wells Fargo Capital Finance Corporation (“Wells Fargo”) and has a term of three years. The Company continues to have a term debt facility with Export Development Canada (“EDC”, and the “EDC Facility”), and on September 22, 2011 signed an amendment to its agreement with EDC to accommodate the change in revolving credit lender, but is otherwise largely unchanged from the existing agreement. The PNC revolving credit facility will bear interest at the base commercial lending rate of PNC in the United States plus one quarter of one percent, and the base commercial lending rate in Canada. The base commercial lending rate of each respective country of borrowing, should approximate prime rate. The EDC Facility bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.5% to 3.5% depending on the achievement of financial performance levels as specified in the amended debt agreement. The Company violated certain of its bank covenants as of December 30, 2012. Subsequent to December 30, 2012, the Company secured waivers to these lending agreements covering these events of default. In addition, the Company and its lenders have amended the lending agreements and management believes that it is probable the Company will be in compliance with these covenants for at least the next 12 months. Continued compliance with its covenants, however, is dependent on the Company achieving certain forecasts. While management is confident in its plans, market conditions have been difficult to predict and there is no assurance that the Company will achieve its forecasts. Our debt under the PNC and EDC Facilities could have adverse consequences for our business, including: • We will be more vulnerable to adverse general economic conditions. • We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes. • We may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes. • We may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. • We could be limited in our borrowing of additional funds and making strategic investments by restrictive covenants and the borrowing base formula in our credit arrangements. • We may fail to comply with covenants under which we borrowed our indebtedness, including various financial covenants under our PNC and EDC Facilities. These covenants, applicable to specific four quarter rolling periods, include (i) maximum capital expenditures, (ii) minimum EDITDA and (iii) maximum cash conversion cycle. Our failure to comply with covenants could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs and is not cured or waived, it could result in all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, becoming immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such amounts, our lenders could proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with the covenants under the PNC and EDC Facilities. There can be no assurance that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, our ability to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness to meet our financial and restrictive covenants and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, certain of which are beyond our control, as well as the availability of revolving credit borrowings under the PNC and EDC Facilities or successor facilities. We face significant restrictions on our ability to operate under the terms of our credit facilities. The terms of our credit facilities generally restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, complete acquisitions, make certain investments, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, make capital expenditures, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge, consolidate or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of our assets (other than in the ordinary course of business). The revolver portion of the credit facilities also has a borrowing base formula that limits our ability to borrow based on the characteristics, including geographic location of our accounts receivable and inventory. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are pledged as security under our credit facilities. 18 If we are not able to comply with these covenants and requirements the lenders have the right to demand accelerated payment and we would have to seek alternative sources of financing, for which there can be no assurance financing would be available, or be available on acceptable terms. In addition, customers may lose confidence in us and reduce or eliminate their orders with us, which may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our borrowing base is diminished we may not have sufficient access to capital to finance operations or capital needs. Our ability to recognize tax benefits on our existing U.S. net operating loss position may be limited. We have generated substantial loss carryforwards and other tax assets for U.S. tax purposes that can be used to reduce our future federal income tax obligations. Our ability to fully use these tax assets will be adversely affected if we have an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”). An ownership change is generally defined as a greater than 50 percentage point increase in equity ownership by “five-percent shareholders” (as that term is defined for purposes of Section 382 of the IRC) in a rolling three-year period. On July 17, 2012, our board of directors and shareholders approved an extension to a Tax Benefits Preservation Plan, (the “Plan”) in order to protect our ability to utilize our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax assets from an “ownership change” under U.S. federal income tax rules. However, there is no guarantee that the Plan will be effective in protecting our NOLs and other tax assets. There may be adverse consequences resulting from future governmental tax audits of the Company's tax returns. The Company has taken various tax positions in determining its tax liabilities and the related expense. It is possible that future tax audits or changes in tax regulation may require the Company to change its prior period tax returns and also to incur additional costs. This may negatively affect future period results. Changes in the securities laws and regulations have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs; and any future changes would likely increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules promulgated by the SEC and NASDAQ, required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. Compliance with these rules has increased our legal and financial accounting costs for several years following the announcement and effectiveness of these new rules. While these costs are no longer increasing, they may in fact increase in the future. In addition, given the recent turmoil in the securities and credit markets, as well as the global economy, many U.S. and international governmental, regulatory and supervisory authorities including, but not limited to, the SEC and NASDAQ, have recently enacted additional changes in their laws, regulations and rules (such as the recent Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act) and may be contemplating additional changes. These changes, and any such future changes, may cause our legal and financial accounting costs to increase. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Any changes in U.S. GAAP or in estimates, judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The Consolidated Financial Statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 19 