ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business and financial results of PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in MD&A, Note 16 and Note 17. Optim Energy, which is 50% owned by PNMR, is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties. The economic recession and its consequent extreme disruption in the credit markets may impact our growth strategy and ability to raise capital. A-13 There currently exists what has been characterized as a “credit crisis” in the United States. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations, which could include capital requirements for energy infrastructure investments and funding new projects. If PNMR, its operating subsidiaries, or Optim Energy are not able to access capital at competitive rates, or at all, PNMR’s ability to finance capital requirements, if needed, and its ability to implement its growth strategy will be limited. Disruptions in the credit markets which could negatively impact our access to capital could be caused by: · a further or prolonged economic recession, · declines in the health of the banking sector generally, and the failure of specific banks who are parties to our credit facilities, · the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, · increased market prices for electricity and gas, · terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on facilities of PNMR’s operating subsidiaries or those of unrelated energy companies, and · deterioration in the overall health of the utility industry. Market disruptions may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect our ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the recession may affect the actions of our customers and result in decreased consumption and increased bad debt expense, and could also negatively impact our suppliers, all of which could negatively impact us. In addition to affecting the capital markets generally, the recession indicates an overall reduction in the level of economic activity. Decreased economic activity can lead to declines in energy consumption, which could adversely affect future revenues, earnings and growth. Rises in unemployment rates both inside our service territories and nationwide could result in commercial customers ceasing operations and lower levels of income for our residential customers, causing them to be unable to pay their bills on time, which could impact our cash flows and increase our bad debt expense, which will impact results of operations. For example, First Choice experienced an increase of $36.7 million in bad debt expense in 2008 compared to 2007. Decreased consumption, late or absence of payments and increases in bad debt expense would all negatively impact our results. Economic conditions also impact the supply of commodities and materials needed to construct or acquire utility assets or make necessary repairs. The recession may affect the supply of concrete, copper, steel, and aluminum. The costs of those items are also affected by economic conditions and could increase significantly over forecasted amounts. Declines in values of marketable securities held in trust funds for pension and other postretirement benefits and in the NDT could result in sustained increases in costs and funding requirements for those obligations, which may affect our results of operations. The Company targets 57.5% of its pension trust funds and 70.0% of its trust funds for other postretirement benefits to be invested in marketable equity securities. There has been a significant decline in the general price levels of marketable equity securities in the second half of 2008 and early 2009. It is likely that increased levels of funding will be required and additional amounts will be recorded as expense. Also, a significant portion of funds held in the NDT are invested in marketable equity securities. The declines in market values have resulted in the recognition of losses as impairments of the certain securities held in the NDT and further declines in market value could result in additional impairments. A-14 Any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of February 20, 2009, the Company had consolidated short-term debt outstanding of $472.7 million. Included in this amount are the TNMP Bridge Facility, which expires on March 30, 2009 and had an outstanding balance of $100.0 million, and the TNMP Facility, which expires May 13, 2009 and had an outstanding balance of $150.0 million. The TNMP facilities will need to be paid or refinanced at their maturities. In addition, prior to February 20, 2010, the Company has long-term debt aggregating $36.0 million, consisting of PNM’s 4.0% unsecured PCRBs, which are subject to a mandatory repurchase and remarketing on July 1, 2009. The Company is exploring financial alternatives to meet these obligations at their maturities and currently believes that internal cash generation, credit arrangements, and access to the public and private capital markets will provide sufficient resources to meet capital requirements and retire or refinance the debt described above at maturity. To cover the difference in the amounts and timing of cash generation and cash requirements, the Company intends to use short-term borrowings under current liquidity arrangements. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in reductions of our credit ratings, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms and would result in an increase in the interest rates applicable under our credit facilities. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient to pay interest and principal on our debt in the future. If that should occur, our capital raising or debt restructuring measures may be unsuccessful or inadequate to meet our scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and further impair our liquidity. Future reduction in the credit ratings of PNMR or its operating subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The credit ratings for the debt of PNMR, PNM, and TNMP were downgraded in April and May 2008 and in some instances are below investment grade. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot be sure that any of their current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Any downgrade could result in: · increased borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results, · required payment of a higher interest rate in future financings and a smaller potential pool of investors and decreased funding sources, · required provision of additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties, and · limited access to or increased costs of access to the commercial paper and other credit markets. The outcomes of the pending electric rate cases for PNM and TNMP and the appeal of the decision in PNM’s 2007 Electric Rate Case could have a significant impact on the Company’s future financial condition and results of operations. Critical to PNMR’s success for the foreseeable future is the financial health of its operating subsidiaries. The outcome of PNM’s 2007 Electric Rate Case and the Emergency FPPAC are still under appeal before the New Mexico Supreme Court. In 2008, each of PNM and TNMP filed electric rate cases. See Note 17 for additional information. Favorable outcomes of these matters are critical to PNM’s and TNMP’s financial health. PNMR, including Optim Energy, may fail to successfully achieve the anticipated benefits from current or future business development initiatives, joint ventures and acquisitions. PNMR may from time to time pursue business development and acquisition opportunities. Although PNMR’s approach would be disciplined and would identify anticipated benefits, potential synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities prior to entering into business initiatives and prior to the acquisition and integration of acquired companies or assets, PNMR may not be able to achieve these anticipated benefits and actual results may differ materially from anticipated benefits due to, among other things: A-15 · delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets, · higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties, · diversion of the attention and resources of its management, · reliance on inaccurate assumptions in evaluating the expected benefits of a given business initiative, joint venture or acquisition, · inability to retain key employees or key customers of business initiatives, joint ventures or acquired companies, and · assumption of liabilities unrecognized in the due diligence process. In addition, PNMR intends to capitalize on the growth opportunities, principally within the areas of Texas covered by ERCOT through its participation and ownership in Optim Energy. In particular, it is anticipated that Optim Energy will focus on these anticipated business lines: · development, operation and ownership of diverse generation assets; and · wholesale marketing and trading to optimize its assets. There are a number of conditions that must be satisfied in order for Optim Energy to operate successfully. The parties must agree if cash and/or assets are proposed to be contributed. Optim Energy must have adequate financing to undertake acquisitions and must also receive certain financing commitments with respect to its proposed ongoing operations. Certain regulatory approvals may be required in connection with the contributions of the members and acquisitions. Although Optim Energy has been established and has made certain acquisitions, there is no assurance that Optim Energy will be able to identify and implement profitable acquisitions in the future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will be satisfied, and PNMR may not realize the benefits it anticipates from the operation of Optim Energy. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM and TNMP may be adversely affected if their power plants and transmission and distribution system are not successfully operated. Further, the financial performance of PNMR may be adversely affected if Optim Energy’s power plants are not successfully operated. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM and TNMP, as well as that of Optim Energy, depends on the successful operation of their generation, transmission and distribution assets. Unscheduled or longer than expected maintenance outages, other performance problems with the electric generation assets, severe weather conditions, accidents and other catastrophic events, disruptions in the delivery of fuel and other factors could reduce generation capacity and therefore limit the ability to sell power. Diminished generation capacity could also result in PNM’s aggregate net open forward electric sales position, including its retail load requirements, being larger than forecasted generation capacity. If this were to occur, purchases of electricity in the wholesale market by PNM would be required under contracts priced at the time of execution or, if in the spot market, at the then-current market price. There can be no assurance that sufficient electricity would be available at reasonable prices, or at all, if such a situation were to occur. Failures of transmission or distribution facilities may also cause interruptions in the services that PNM and TNMP provide. These potential generation, distribution and transmission problems, and any potentially related service interruptions, could result in lost revenues and additional costs. The financial performance of PNMR and PNM may be adversely affected if PVNGS cannot be operated at a satisfactory level or if the NRC imposes restrictions on operation of the plant or any of the three units at PVNGS. Additional information relating to the performance of PVNGS is contained in MD&A. See Sources of Power above. Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. Through its operating subsidiaries, PNMR is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed PNMR’s available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that PNMR’s operating subsidiaries purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. Because regulators or market conditions may not permit the operating subsidiaries to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the operating subsidiaries may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the A-16 recovery in customers’ rates. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for PNMR and the affected operating subsidiary. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries may not be able to mitigate fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in earnings. The business and operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts that must be paid for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in owned generation plants. Prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose PNMR and its operating subsidiaries to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: · prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas, nuclear fuel and other fuels used in the generation plants of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities, · prevailing market conditions in the general wholesale electricity market, · liquidity in the commodity markets, · the rate of growth in electricity as a result of population changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs, · weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies, · changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on for purchased power and fuel, · the actions of external parties, such as FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in the United States’ western energy markets, · changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations, · union and labor relations, and · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on derivatives such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options and swaps to manage certain risks. They attempt to manage their exposure from these activities through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries cannot be certain that these strategies will be successful in managing pricing risk, or that they will not result in net liabilities as a result of future volatility in these markets. To the extent electric capacity generated by wholesale plants is not under contract to be sold, the business, results of operations and financial position of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries will generally be subject to the volatility of wholesale electricity prices. To the extent these strategies are not successful, they could have a material adverse effect on business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed estimates by PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and Optim Energy, which could adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, while there is uncertainty about the timing and form of anticipated climate change regulation, the regulation of GHG is expected to have a material impact on operations. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. PNMR, PNM, TNMP and Optim Energy cannot predict how they would be affected if existing environmental laws and regulations were revised, or if new environmental laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment were adopted. In addition, while there continues to be significant debate regarding the existence and extent of the emission of so-called GHG (particularly CO2) from fossil-fired generation facilities, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries believe that future governmental regulations applicable to their operations will limit GHG. A number of bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and under a number of the bills, it is likely that the incurrence of substantial costs would be required in order to comply, assuming that technology is available. Material changes in A-17 existing environmental laws and regulations, as well as new environmental laws and regulations, including the expected regulation of GHG, will increase financing requirements or otherwise adversely affect the business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity of PNMR, its operating subsidiaries and Optim Energy, unless increased environmental costs are recovered in customer rates or otherwise. Revised or additional environmental laws and regulations could also result in additional operating restrictions on facilities and increased compliance costs that may not be fully recoverable in rates or otherwise, thereby reducing net income. In addition, PNM or TNMP may be designated as a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond PNM’s or TNMP’s control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. PNMR may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common and convertible preferred stock if its subsidiaries are unable to repay funds to PNMR or if PNMR’s subsidiaries or Optim Energy are unable to pay upstream dividends or distributions to PNMR. PNMR is a holding company and, as such, PNMR has no operations of its own. PNMR’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common and convertible preferred stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and Optim Energy and their ability to pay upstream dividends or distributions or, in the case of PNMR’s subsidiaries, to repay funds to PNMR. Prior to providing funds to PNMR, PNMR’s subsidiaries and Optim Energy have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and, in the case of PNM, preferred stock dividends. PNM can pay dividends to PNMR from earnings as well as equity contributions made by PNMR. The NMPRC has placed certain restrictions on the ability of PNM to pay dividends to PNMR, including the restriction that PNM cannot pay dividends that cause its debt rating to fall below investment grade. The NMPRC has also restricted PNM from paying dividends in any year, as determined on a rolling four quarter basis, in excess of net earnings, including carryover amounts, without prior NMPRC approval. Additionally, PNM has various financial covenants that limit the transfer of assets, through dividends or other means. In addition, the ability of PNMR to declare dividends is dependent upon the extent to which cash flows will support dividends, the availability of retained earnings, the financial circumstances and performance, the NMPRC’s and PUCT’s decisions in various regulatory cases currently pending and which may be docketed in the future, the effect of federal regulatory decisions, Congressional and legislative acts and economic conditions in the United States. Conditions imposed by the NMPRC or PUCT, future growth plans and the related capital requirements and business considerations may also affect PNMR’s ability to pay dividends. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to complex government regulation, which may have a negative impact on their business, financial position and results of operations PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influences their operating environment and may affect their ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the NMPRC, PUCT, FERC, NRC, EPA, ERCOT, NMED and TCEQ regulate many aspects of their utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that the regulated entities can charge customers. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies to operate their business. The rates that PNM and TNMP are allowed to charge for their retail services significantly influence PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Due to continuing federal regulatory reforms, the public utility industry continues to undergo change. Although Optim Energy’s operations are generally not subject to regulation by the utility regulatory agencies, its operations are subject to regulation by other regulators such as environmental authorities. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down A-18 of a unit, or both, depending upon the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In early 2007, the NRC placed PVNGS Unit 3 in the “multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone” column of the NRC’s Action Matrix (“Column 4”), which has resulted in an enhanced NRC inspection regime, including on-site in-depth inspections of PVNGS equipment and operations. Although only PVNGS Unit 3 is in NRC’s Column 4, in order to adequately assess the need for improvements, APS management has been conducting site-wide assessments of equipment and operations. APS continues to cooperate fully with the NRC throughout this process. The enhanced NRC inspection regime and APS’ ongoing commitment to the conservatively safe operation of PVNGS could result in NRC action or an APS decision to shut down one or more units in the event of noncompliance with operating requirements or in light of other operating considerations. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC has issued a number of rules pertaining to preventing undue discrimination in transmission services and electric reliability standards. PNMR monitors and participates in the FERC and other proceedings involving implementation of the Energy Policy Act, in order to assess the implications of the law and rules on its operations. PNMR and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the impact on their business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any agency that regulates them or from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require PNMR and its regulated subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or change business operations, and therefore may have an adverse impact on PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ results of operations. The operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and Optim Energy are affected by weather conditions and regional drought and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation and distribution are generally seasonal businesses with demand for power from PNMR’s and Optim Energy’s electric operations traditionally peaking during the hot summer months. As a result, the operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and Optim Energy will likely fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, the sale of PNM Gas on January 30, 2009 and the absence of revenues from gas operations for the remainder of the first quarter of 2009 will likely highlight a change in quarterly earnings distribution. In addition, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Temperature extremes inside an operating subsidiary’s service territory may reduce the amount of power available to sell on the wholesale market. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net earnings, available cash and borrowing ability of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries. Drought conditions in New Mexico generally, and especially in the “four corners” region, in which SJGS and the Four Corners plant are located, may affect the water supply for PNM’s generating plants. If adequate precipitation is not received in the watershed that supplies that region, PNM may have to decrease generation at these plants, which would require the purchase of power to serve PNM’s customers and/or reduce PNM’s ability to sell excess power on the wholesale market and reduce its revenues. Drought conditions or actions taken by regulators or legislators could limit PNM’s supply of water, and PNM’s and PNMR’s business may be adversely impacted. Although PNM has been able to maintain adequate access to water through supplemental contracts and voluntary shortage sharing agreements with tribes and other water users in the “four corners” region, PNM cannot be certain that it will be able to do so in the future. A-19 The ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers, its ability to collect amounts billed to customers, and its ability to mitigate the fluctuation in costs of energy supply could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR is exposed to competition in the unregulated Texas retail electricity market through First Choice, which serves customers at competitive rates. In order to compete effectively in the Texas retail electricity market, First Choice must be able to attract and retain customers on the basis of cost and service, while managing the cost of its energy supply. The competitive nature of the Texas market results in significant turnover in the customer base of First Choice. There is no provision under Texas regulation that requires customers to pay their previous REP before obtaining service from another REP. This has been exacerbated by the impacts of Hurricane Ike and depressed economic conditions and has resulted in significant increases in the levels of uncollectible accounts and bad debt expense. The ability of First Choice to compete successfully in the Texas market could have a significant effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. There are inherent risks in the ownership and operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health, regulatory, and financial risks and the risk of a terrorist attack. PNM has a 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS, with portions of its interests in Units 1 and 2 held under leases. PVNGS is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. PNM maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. See Note 16. Although the decommissioning trust funds are designed to provide adequate funds for decommissioning at the end of the expected life of the PVNGS units, there is the risk of insufficient decommissioning trust funds in the event of early decommissioning of the units. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime, which could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. The enhanced NRC inspection regime currently in effect at PVNGS and the related operational and regulatory implications are discussed above. In addition, although the PVNGS participants have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at PVNGS, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of PNM and PNMR. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. The operation of each of the three PVNGS units requires an operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses are valid for a period of approximately 40 years. APS, on behalf of the PVNGS participants, applied for renewed operating licenses for each unit on December 15, 2008 for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. The NRC is currently reviewing the application. The PVNGS participants do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. Impairments of tangible and intangible long-lived assets of PNMR, PNM and TNMP could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP evaluate their tangible and intangible long-lived assets, including goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets, for impairment periodically or whenever indicators of impairment exist, pursuant to SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. The market capitalization of PNMR’s common stock was significantly below book value during 2008, which is an indicator that intangible assets may be impaired. Other potential impairment indicators could include changing customer purchase commitments and market share; fluctuating market and commodity prices resulting from weather patterns; changing fuel costs; increased environmental regulation; industry deregulation and other economic and market conditions and trends. In addition, changes in the ERCOT market in which First Choice operates significantly impacted its results of operations. Also, Optim Energy made a strategic decision not to pursue the Twin Oaks expansion and wrote off its development rights as an impairment. After tax impairment losses for A-20 PNMR, its consolidated subsidiaries, and PNMR’s share of Optim Energy totaled $212.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. If further indicators of impairment become evident, further analysis could result in further charges. In addition, the impairment analysis already performed was based on operating results expected to occur in the future. If the anticipated future results are not achieved, we may be required to perform additional assessments that could result in further impairment charges. Significant impairments adversely affect business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. PNM’s PVNGS leases describe certain events, including “Events of Loss” and “Deemed Loss Events”, the occurrence of which could require PNM to pay the lessors and the equity investors, in return for the investors' interest in PVNGS, cash in the amount provided in the leases and assume debt obligations relating to the PVNGS leases. The “Events of Loss” generally relate to casualties, accidents and other events at PVNGS, including the occurrence of specified nuclear events, which would severely, adversely affect the ability of the operating agent, APS, to operate, and the ability of PNM to earn a return on its interests in, PVNGS. The “Deemed Loss Events” consist mostly of legal and regulatory changes (such as issuance by the NRC of specified violation orders, changes in law making the sale and leaseback transactions illegal, or changes in law making the lessors liable for nuclear decommissioning obligations). PNM believes that the probability of such “Events of Loss” or “Deemed Loss Events” occurring is remote for the following reasons: (1) to a large extent, prevention of “Events of Loss” and some “Deemed Loss Events” is within the control of the PVNGS participants, including PNM, and the PVNGS operating agent, through the general PVNGS operational and safety oversight process and (2) with respect to other “Deemed Loss Events,” which would involve a significant change in current law and policy, PNM is unaware of any pending proposals or proposals being considered for introduction in Congress, or in any state legislative or regulatory body that, if adopted, would cause any of those events. Provisions of PNMR’s organizational documents, as well as several other statutory and regulatory factors, will limit another party’s ability to acquire PNMR and could deprive PNMR’s shareholders of the opportunity to gain a takeover premium for shares of PNMR’s common stock. PNMR’s restated articles of incorporation and by-laws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of discouraging persons from acquiring large blocks of PNMR’s common stock or delaying or preventing a change in control of PNMR. The material provisions that may have such an effect include: · authorization for the Board to issue PNMR’s preferred stock in series and to fix rights and preferences of the series (including, among other things, whether, and to what extent, the shares of any series will have voting rights, subject to certain limitations, and the extent of the preferences of the shares of any series with respect to dividends and other matters), · advance notice procedures with respect to any proposal other than those adopted or recommended by PNMR’s Board, and · provisions specifying that only a majority of the Board, the chairman of the Board, the president or holders of not less than one-tenth of all of PNMR's shares entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the New Mexico Public Utility Act, NMPRC approval is required for certain transactions that may result in PNMR’s change in control or exercise of control. Certain acquisitions of PNMR’s outstanding voting securities would also require FERC approval. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. A-21 ITEM 