ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business and financial results of PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in MD&A, Note 16 and Note 17. EnergyCo, which is 50% owned by PNMR, is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties. PNM's retail electric rate reduction, retail electric rate freeze, and the New Mexico settlement relating to the TNP acquisition, could continue to adversely affect PNM’s profit margin. Pursuant to an electric retail rate freeze stipulation, PNM decreased its retail electric rates by 4% effective September 1, 2003 and an additional 2.5% effective September 1, 2005. These reduced retail electric rates will remain in effect through approximately May 7, 2008. The TNP acquisition required the integration of TNMP’s New Mexico assets into PNM effective January 1, 2007 and required that separate rates for PNM’s electric customers in southern New Mexico be frozen and maintained, at a minimum, through 2010. PNM's costs, however, are not frozen. PNM does not have the benefit of a FPPAC for its retail electric operations that would allow it to recover increased fuel and purchased power costs from customers. Therefore, unlike most regulated utility companies, PNM is exposed to changes in fuel and power prices to the extent fuel for its electric generating facilities and power must be purchased on the open market in order for it to serve its retail electric customers. The outcome of PNM’s electric rate case will have a significant impact on PNMR’s and PNM’s future financial condition and results of operations. Critical to PNMR’s success for the foreseeable future is the financial health of PNM, PNMR’s largest subsidiary. PNM has filed an electric rate case with the NMPRC, requesting new rates designed to increase operating revenues approximately $76.9 million on an annual basis. In addition, PNM has asked for reinstatement of its FPPAC, which it voluntarily relinquished in 1994 under dramatically different circumstances. A favorable outcome in PNM’s rate case is critical to PNM’s financial health. Hearings were concluded in December of 2007 and briefs of the parties were filed in January of 2008. The NMPRC staff and intervenors have opposed PNM’s request for a fuel clause despite the fact that all other utilities in New Mexico have one and it is standard practice throughout the utility industry. The NMPRC staff recommended an annual $18.3 million rate increase, which was the largest increase recommended by any party other than PNM. The AG recommended an annual $2.8 million rate decrease. The recommended decision of the hearing examiner is due February 28, 2008, with a final decision from the NMPRC due May 7, 2008. The Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this case. See Note 17 for additional information relating to this rate filing. A significant reduction in the credit ratings of PNMR or its operating subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot be sure that any of their current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Any downgrade: · could increase borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results, · could require payment of a higher interest rate in future financings and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease, · could also require the provision of additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties, and · could limit access to or increase the cost of access to the commercial paper and other credit markets. A-14 On January 20, 2006, S&P revised PNMR’s outlook from stable to negative and downgraded the commercial paper of PNMR and PNM from A-2 to A-3, citing concerns about reduced plant availability at PVNGS, the higher cost of replacement power due to high natural gas prices and the lack of a FPPAC that would permit PNM to pass these costs to customers. In April 2007, Moody’s changed the credit outlook of PNMR, PNM and TNMP to negative from stable. In December 2007, S&P downgraded the ratings of the long-term securities of PNMR to ‘BB+‘ from ‘BBB-‘ and of PNM and TNMP to ‘BBB-‘ from ‘BBB‘, maintained the rating on short-term securities, and changed the outlook to stable from negative. In January 2008, Moody’s placed PNMR, PNM and TNMP on review for possible downgrade. Moody’s currently rates the long-term securities of PNMR and TNMP as Baa3 and of PNM as Baa2. The ratings action by S&P has increased short-term borrowing costs for PNMR and PNM and could increase long-term borrowing costs for PNMR and PNM. The rating agencies have expressed concern about the outcome of PNM’s pending electric rate case and the lack of a FPPAC in the face of rising commodity costs as part of PNM’s challenging regulatory environment. The ratings from rating agencies reflect only the views of such rating agencies and are not recommendations to buy, to sell or to hold securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Any downgrade or withdrawal of the current ratings of PNMR, PNM or TNMP may have an adverse effect on the market price of their outstanding debt, may limit their ability to raise capital in the financial markets, and may increase the cost of such capital. The inability to raise capital could limit PNMR’s ability to finance its capital requirements and execute its growth strategy , which could adversely affect PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations, which could include capital requirements for energy infrastructure investments and funding new projects. If PNMR, its operating subsidiaries, or EnergyCo are not able to access capital at competitive rates, or at all, PNMR’s ability to finance capital requirements, if needed, and its ability to implement its growth strategy will be limited. Market disruptions (as well as any downgrade of PNMR’s or its operating subsidiaries’ credit rating) may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect the ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. These disruptions could include: · an economic downturn, · changes in capital market conditions generally, · the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, · increased market prices for electricity and gas, · terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on facilities of PNMR’s operating subsidiaries or those of unrelated energy companies, and · deterioration in the overall health of the utility industry. PNMR and PNM cannot make any assurances that the proposed sale of PNM's natural gas operations or purchase of CRHC’s electric distribution and transmission business in Texas will be consummated, and failure to complete the transactions would result in the incurrence of costs, the amounts of which could adversely impact PNMR’s and PNM’s future business and financial results. On January 15, 2008, PNMR announced that PNM had entered into an agreement with Continental and NMGC, a subsidiary of Continental, for the sale of PNM’s natural gas operations to NMGC for $620 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. In a separate transaction that is conditioned upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the above agreement, PNMR entered into an agreement with Continental and CRHC, a subsidiary of Continental, to acquire 100% ownership of CRHC and its subsidiaries, including Cap Rock Energy, which operate an electric distribution and transmission business serving approximately 36,000 customers in 28 counties in north, west and central Texas, for $202.5 million in cash, subject to adjustment for the changes in certain components of working capital, and subject to the condition that the outstanding indebtedness of CRHC and its subsidiaries is eliminated at or prior to closing. Consummation of the PNM natural gas operations sale and CRHC electric assets acquisition is not subject to a financing condition, but is subject to various other conditions, including receiving approval from the NMPRC (for the sale of the natural gas operations), PUCT (for the purchase of the electric distribution and transmission business), FERC, and expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and satisfaction of other closing conditions. There is no assurance that all of the various conditions will be satisfied. A-15 If the proposed transactions are not completed for any reason, PNM will not receive the $620 million selling price for the natural gas operations and will not be able to utilize the after-tax proceeds from the sale. In addition, PNMR and PNM will be subject to numerous expenses, including the following: · being required, under certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee of $25 million in connection with the gas operations sale and $8.1 million in connection with the electric business acquisition; · having incurred certain costs relating to the proposed transactions that are payable whether or not the transactions are completed, including legal and accounting fees; and · having had management focused on completing the proposed transactions, instead of on pursuing another business strategy, including acquisition or investment opportunities that could have been beneficial to PNMR and PNM. If the proposed transactions are not completed, as a result of these and other factors, PNMR’s and PNM’s business, financial results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The profit margin for PNM’s natural gas distribution business could be adversely affected if PNM does not obtain adequate rate relief, including in PNM’s pending gas rate case appeal. On May 30, 2006, PNM filed a general gas rate case that asked the NMPRC to approve an increase in the service fees charged to its 481,000 natural gas customers. The proposal would increase the set monthly fee, the charge tied to monthly usage, and miscellaneous on-demand service fees. Those fees are separate from the cost of gas charged to customers. The monthly cost of gas charge would not be affected by the fee increase. The petition requested an increase in base gas service rates of $22.6 million and an increase in miscellaneous on-demand service rates of $0.2 million. The request was designed to provide PNM’s gas utility an opportunity to earn an 11% return on equity, which is consistent with the average return allowed ten comparable natural gas utilities. The petition also requested approval of a line item that provides a true-up mechanism for operational costs when system-wide gas consumption is lower or higher than what is designed in the rates. On June 29, 2007 the NMPRC unanimously approved an increase in annual revenues of approximately $9 million for PNM. The NMPRC based the new rates on a revenue requirement needed to earn a 9.53% return on equity. The NMPRC did not approve PNM’s request for the true-up mechanism for operational costs based on system-wide gas consumption. PNM and the AG have filed appeals with the New Mexico Supreme Court. The AG’s appeal seeks reversal of the NMPRC decision on one issue – weather normalization. PNM’s appeal seeks reversal of the NMPRC determination of the required return on equity and on four cost-of-service accounting issues. If PNM’s appeal is successful in all respects and the AG’s appeal is unsuccessful, PNM’s authorized annual revenue would increase by about $10 million. If PNM’s appeal is unsuccessful in all respects and the AG’s appeal is upheld, PNM’s annual revenues would decrease by $6.8 million. Initial briefs were filed November 20, 2007. Answer briefs are due February 29, 2008. While PNM has entered into an agreement with Continental and NMGC for the sale of PNM’s natural gas operations to NMGC, consummation of the sale is subject to various conditions, including receiving approval from the NMPRC, and PNM will continue to operate PNM Gas at least until the fourth quarter of 2008 when the sale is expected to close. In addition, a number of issues on appeal could have impacts on the outcome of the current electric rate case proceedings. PNMR and PNM are not able to predict the outcome or timing of rate treatment PNM will receive as a result of the appeal or in future rate cases should the sale of PNM Gas not close. PNMR may fail to successfully achieve the anticipated benefits from current or future business development initiatives, joint ventures and acquisitions, including the proposed CRHC electric assets acquisition and EnergyCo. As part of PNMR’s growth strategy, PNMR is pursuing, and intends to continue to pursue, a disciplined business development and acquisition strategy, including CRHC. While PNMR expects to identify anticipated benefits, potential synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities prior to entering into business initiatives and prior to the acquisition and integration of acquired companies or assets, PNMR may not be able to achieve these anticipated benefits due to, among other things: A-16 · delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets, · higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties, · diversion of the attention and resources of its management, · reliance on inaccurate assumptions in evaluating the expected benefits of a given business initiative, joint venture or acquisition, · inability to retain key employees or key customers of business initiatives, joint ventures or acquired companies, · assumption of liabilities unrecognized in the due diligence process, and · actual results may differ materially from the anticipated benefits from current or future business development initiatives, joint ventures and acquisitions. In addition, PNMR intends to capitalize on the growth opportunities in the Southwest, Texas and the West through its participation and ownership in EnergyCo. In particular, it is anticipated that EnergyCo will focus on three anticipated business lines: · competitive retail electricity sales; · development, operation and ownership of diverse generation assets; and · wholesale marketing and trading to optimize its assets. There are a number of conditions that must be satisfied in order for EnergyCo to operate successfully. The parties must agree on the cash and/or assets to be contributed. EnergyCo must have adequate financing to undertake acquisitions and must also receive certain financing commitments with respect to its proposed ongoing operations. Certain regulatory approvals may be required in connection with the contributions of the members and acquisitions. Although EnergyCo has been established and has made certain acquisitions, there is no assurance that EnergyCo will be able to identify and implement profitable acquisitions in the future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will be satisfied, and PNMR may not realize the benefits it anticipates from the operation of EnergyCo. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM and TNMP may be adversely affected if their power plants and transmission and distribution system are not successfully operated. Further, the financial performance of PNMR may be adversely affected if EnergyCo’s power plants are not successfully operated. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM and TNMP, as well as that of EnergyCo, depends on the successful operation of their generation, transmission and distribution assets. Unscheduled or longer than expected maintenance outages, other performance problems with the electric generation assets, severe weather conditions, accidents and other catastrophic events, disruptions in the delivery of fuel and other factors could reduce excess generation capacity and therefore limit PNM’s ability to sell excess power from its jurisdictional and wholesale assets. Diminished generation capacity could also result in PNM’s aggregate net open forward electric sales position, including its retail load requirements, being larger than forecasted generation capacity. If this were to occur, purchases of electricity in the wholesale market by PNM would be required under contracts priced at the time of execution or, if in the spot market, at the then-current market price. There can be no assurance that sufficient electricity would be available at reasonable prices, or at all, if such a situation were to occur. Failures of transmission or distribution facilities may also cause interruptions in the services that PNM and TNMP provide. These potential generation, distribution and transmission problems, and any potentially related service interruptions, could result in lost revenues and additional costs. The financial performance of PNMR and PNM may be adversely affected if PVNGS cannot be operated at a satisfactory level or if the NRC imposes restrictions on operation of the plant or any of the three units at PVNGS. Additional information relating to the performance of PVNGS is contained in MD&A. See Sources of Power above. Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. Through its operating subsidiaries, PNMR is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed PNMR’s available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that PNMR’s operating subsidiaries purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. Because regulators or market conditions may not permit the operating subsidiaries to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the operating subsidiaries may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the recovery in customers’ rates. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for PNMR and the affected operating subsidiary. A-17 PNMR and its operating subsidiaries may not be able to mitigate fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in earnings. The business and operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts that must be paid for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in owned generation plants. Prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose PNMR and its operating subsidiaries to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: · prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas, nuclear fuel and other fuels used in the generation plants of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities, · prevailing market conditions in the general wholesale electricity market, · liquidity in the commodity markets, · the rate of growth in electricity as a result of population changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs, · weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies, · changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on for purchased power and fuel, · the actions of external parties, such as FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in the United States’ western energy markets, · changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations, · union and labor relations, and · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on derivatives such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options and swaps to manage these risks. They attempt to manage their exposure from these activities through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries cannot be certain that these strategies will be successful in managing pricing risk, or that they will not result in net liabilities as a result of future volatility in these markets. To the extent electric capacity generated by wholesale plants is not under contract to be sold, the business, results of operations and financial position of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries will generally be subject to the volatility of wholesale electricity prices. To the extent these strategies are not successful, they could have a material adverse effect on business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed estimates by PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and EnergyCo, which could adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, while there is uncertainty about the timing and form of anticipated climate change regulation, the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions is expected to have a material impact on operations. A-18 Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. PNMR, PNM, TNMP and EnergyCo cannot predict how they would be affected if existing environmental laws and regulations were revised, or if new environmental laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment were adopted. In addition, while there continues to be significant debate regarding the existence and extent of the emission of so-called greenhouse gases (particularly CO2) from fossil-fired generation facilities, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries believe that future governmental regulations applicable to their operations will limit emissions of greenhouse gases. A number of bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress, and under a number of the bills, it is likely that the incurrence of substantial costs would be required in order to comply, assuming that technology is available. Material changes in existing environmental laws and regulations, as well as new environmental laws and regulations, including the expected regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, will increase financing requirements or otherwise adversely affect the business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity of PNMR, its operating subsidiaries and EnergyCo, unless increased environmental costs are recovered in customer rates or otherwise. Revised or additional environmental laws and regulations could also result in additional operating restrictions on facilities and increased compliance costs that may not be fully recoverable in rates or otherwise, thereby reducing net income. In addition, PNM or TNMP may be designated as a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond PNM’s or TNMP’s control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. PNMR may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to repay funds to PNMR or if PNMR’s subsidiaries or EnergyCo are unable to pay upstream dividends or distributions to PNMR. PNMR is a holding company and, as such, PNMR has no operations of its own. PNMR’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and EnergyCo and their ability to pay upstream dividends or distributions or, in the case of PNMR’s subsidiaries, to repay funds to PNMR. Prior to providing funds to PNMR, PNMR’s subsidiaries and EnergyCo have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and, in the case of PNM, preferred stock dividends. The NMPRC has placed certain restrictions on the ability of PNM to pay dividends to PNMR, including the restriction that PNM cannot pay dividends that cause its debt rating to fall below investment grade. The NMPRC has also restricted PNM from paying dividends in any year, as determined on a rolling four quarter basis, in excess of net earnings without prior NMPRC approval. PNM can pay dividends from earnings to PNMR as well as equity contributions made by PNMR. Additionally, PNM has various financial covenants that limit the transfer of assets, through dividends or other means. In addition, the ability of PNMR to declare dividends is dependent upon the extent to which cash flows will support dividends, the availability of retained earnings, the financial circumstances and performance, the NMPRC’s and PUCT’s decisions in various regulatory cases currently pending and which may be docketed in the future, the effect of federal regulatory decisions, Congressional and legislative acts and economic conditions in the United States. Conditions imposed by the NMPRC or PUCT, future growth plans and the related capital requirements and business considerations may also affect PNMR’s ability to pay dividends. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to complex government regulation, which may have a negative impact on their business, financial position and results of operations PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influences their operating environment and may affect their ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the NMPRC, PUCT, FERC, NRC, EPA, ERCOT, NMED and TCEQ regulate many aspects of their utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that the regulated entities can charge customers. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies to operate their business. The rates that PNM and TNMP are allowed to charge for their retail services significantly influence PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Due to continuing federal regulatory reforms, the public utility industry continues to undergo change. Although EnergyCo’s operations are generally not subject to regulation by the utility regulatory agencies, its operations are subject to regulation by other regulators such as environmental authorities. A-19 The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime that could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon the NRC’s assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In early 2007, the NRC placed PVNGS Unit 3 in the “multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone” column of the NRC’s Action Matrix (“Column 4”), which has resulted in an enhanced NRC inspection regime, including on-site in-depth inspections of PVNGS equipment and operations. Although only PVNGS Unit 3 is in NRC’s Column 4, in order to adequately assess the need for improvements, APS management has been conducting site-wide assessments of equipment and operations. APS continues to cooperate fully with the NRC throughout this process. The enhanced NRC inspection regime and APS’ ongoing commitment to the conservatively safe operation of PVNGS could result in NRC action or an APS decision to shut down one or more units in the event of noncompliance with operating requirements or in light of other operating considerations. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 covers many areas, including the items set forth in Note 17 and elsewhere in this report. Implementation of various portions of the law requires the issuance of rules by FERC. FERC has adopted final rules implementing various provisions of the Energy Policy Act including rules pertaining to repeal of the PUHCA of 1935, FERC’s expanded mergers and acquisitions approval authority and prohibition of energy market manipulation. FERC has also issued a number of other proposed rules that are pending, including rules pertaining to preventing undue discrimination in transmission services and electric reliability standards. PNMR will continue to monitor, and participate in as appropriate, the FERC and other proceedings involving implementation of the Energy Policy Act, in order to assess the implications of the new law and rules on its operations. PNMR and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the impact on their business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any agency that regulates them or from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require PNMR and its regulated subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or change business operations, and therefore may have an adverse impact on PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ results of operations. The operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and EnergyCo are affected by weather conditions and regional drought and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation and natural gas distribution are generally seasonal businesses. Demand for power from PNMR’s and EnergyCo’s electric operations peaks during the hot summer months, while demand for natural gas peaks during the winter. As a result, the operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and EnergyCo may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Temperature extremes inside an operating subsidiary’s service territory may reduce the amount of power available to sell on the wholesale market. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net earnings, available cash and borrowing ability of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries. Drought conditions in New Mexico generally, and especially in the “four corners” region, in which SJGS and the Four Corners plant are located, may affect the water supply for PNM’s generating plants. If adequate precipitation is not received in the watershed that supplies that region, PNM may have to decrease generation at these plants, which would require the purchase of power to serve PNM’s customers and/or reduce PNM’s ability to sell excess power on the wholesale market and reduce its revenues. Drought conditions or actions taken by regulators or legislators could limit PNM’s supply of water, and PNM’s and PNMR’s business may be adversely impacted. Although PNM has been able to maintain adequate access to water through supplemental contracts and voluntary shortage sharing agreements with tribes and other water users in the “four corners” region, PNM cannot be certain that it will be able to do so in the future. A-20 The ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers and its ability to mitigate the fluctuation in costs of energy supply could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR is exposed to competition in the unregulated Texas retail electricity market through First Choice, which serves customers at competitive rates. In order to compete effectively in the Texas retail electricity market, First Choice must be able to attract and retain customers on the basis of cost and service, while managing the cost of its energy supply. The ability of First Choice to compete successfully in the Texas market could have a significant effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health and financial risks and the risk of a terrorist attack. PNM has a 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS, with portions of its interests in Units 1 and 2 held under leases. PVNGS is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. PNM maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. See Note 16. Although the decommissioning trust funds are designed to provide adequate funds for decommissioning at the end of the expected life of the PVNGS units, there is the risk of insufficient decommissioning trust funds in the event of early decommissioning of the units. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose monetary civil penalties or a progressively increased inspection regime, which could ultimately result in the shut down of a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. The enhanced NRC inspection regime currently in effect at PVNGS and the related operational and regulatory implications are discussed above. In addition, although the PVNGS participants have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at PVNGS, if an incident did occur, it could materially and adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition of PNM and PNMR. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. The operation of PVNGS requires licenses that need to be periodically renewed and/or extended. The PVNGS participants do not anticipate any problems renewing these licenses. However, as a result of potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities, the licensing process could result in increased licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict. The operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and EnergyCo are subject to risks beyond their control that may reduce their revenues. The revenues of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries and EnergyCo are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas. That demand can vary greatly based upon: · weather conditions, including hurricanes, seasonality and temperature extremes as described below, · fluctuations in economic activity and growth in PNMR’s service area and the western region of the United States, · the extent of additional energy available from current or new competitors, and · the ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers. Impairments of tangible and intangible long-lived assets of PNMR, PNM and TNMP could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP evaluate their tangible and intangible long-lived assets, including goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, for impairment periodically or whenever indicators of impairment exist, pursuant to SFAS 142 and SFAS 144. These potential impairment triggers could include changing customer purchase commitments and market share; fluctuating market prices resulting from weather patterns; changing fuel costs; increased environmental regulation; industry deregulation and other economic and market conditions and trends. Significant impairments could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. A-21 PNM’s PVNGS leases describe certain events, including “Events of Loss” and “Deemed Loss Events”, the occurrence of which could require PNM to pay the lessors and the equity investors, in return for the investors' interest in PVNGS, cash in the amount provided in the leases and assume debt obligations relating to the PVNGS leases. The “Events of Loss” generally relate to casualties, accidents and other events at PVNGS, including the occurrence of specified nuclear events, which would severely, adversely affect the ability of the operating agent, APS, to operate, and the ability of PNM to earn a return on its interests in, PVNGS. The “Deemed Loss Events” consist mostly of legal and regulatory changes (such as issuance by the NRC of specified violation orders, changes in law making the sale and leaseback transactions illegal, or changes in law making the lessors liable for nuclear decommissioning obligations). PNM believes that the probability of such “Events of Loss” or “Deemed Loss Events” occurring is remote for the following reasons: (1) to a large extent, prevention of “Events of Loss” and some “Deemed Loss Events” is within the control of the PVNGS participants, including PNM, and the PVNGS operating agent, through the general PVNGS operational and safety oversight process and (2) with respect to other “Deemed Loss Events,” which would involve a significant change in current law and policy, PNM is unaware of any pending proposals or proposals being considered for introduction in Congress, or in any state legislative or regulatory body that, if adopted, would cause any of those events. Provisions of PNMR’s organizational documents, as well as several other statutory and regulatory factors, will limit another party’s ability to acquire PNMR and could deprive PNMR’s shareholders of the opportunity to gain a takeover premium for shares of PNMR’s common stock. PNMR’s restated articles of incorporation and by-laws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of discouraging persons from acquiring large blocks of PNMR’s common stock or delaying or preventing a change in control of PNMR. The material provisions that may have such an effect include: · authorization for the Board to issue PNMR’s preferred stock in series and to fix rights and preferences of the series (including, among other things, whether, and to what extent, the shares of any series will have voting rights, subject to certain limitations, and the extent of the preferences of the shares of any series with respect to dividends and other matters), · advance notice procedures with respect to any proposal other than those adopted or recommended by PNMR’s Board, and · provisions specifying that only a majority of the Board, the chairman of the Board, the president or holders of not less than one-tenth of all of PNMR's shares entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the New Mexico Public Utility Act, NMPRC approval is required for certain transactions that may result in PNMR’s change in control or exercise of control. Certain acquisitions of PNMR’s outstanding voting securities would also require FERC approval under the FERC's authority resulting from the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the repeal of the PUHCA of 2005. See Note 17. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. A-22 ITEM 