ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s common stock involves certain risks. To understand these risks and to evaluate an investment in the Company’s common stock, you should read this entire report, including the following risk factors. Berkshire Bank’s emphasis on commercial and consumer lending may expose it to increased lending risks. Both commercial loans and consumer loans are more sensitive to economic downturns and the possible impact of higher interest rates. Such sensitivity includes potentially higher default rates and possible diminution of collateral values. Additionally, commercial loans typically involve larger loan balances and larger relationship exposures. Commercial lending also involves more development financing, which is dependent on the future success of new operations. In expanding into new commercial lending markets, the Bank will have less knowledge and experience with local conditions, compared to its traditional markets, which could affect the success of its underwriting and loan collections. In conducting its lending activities, the Bank generally avoids lending practices identified as high risk by bank regulators, as well as lending concentrations that would be viewed as high risk under regulatory guidelines. The Company’s geographic expansion and growth, if not successful, could negatively impact earnings. The Company plans to achieve significant growth both organically and through acquisitions. It has recently expanded into new geographic markets and anticipates that it will expand into additional new geographic markets as it transforms itself into a regional bank. The success of this expansion will depend on the acceptance by customers of the Company and its services in these new markets. Additionally, the profitability of Berkshire Bank’s expansion strategy will depend on whether the income it generates in the new markets will offset the increased expenses of operating a larger entity with increased personnel, more branch locations and additional product offerings. Berkshire Bank expects that it may take a period of time before certain of its new branches can become profitable, especially in areas in which Berkshire Bank does not have an established physical presence. During this period, operating these new branches may negatively impact net income. Additionally, in connection with the Company’s expansion, the Company will need to increase its operational and financial procedures, systems and controls. If the Company has difficulty in doing so, it could harm the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company acquired Woronoco Bancorp, Inc. in 2005, and has purchased insurance and financial planning businesses in the last two years. The Company will pursue additional opportunities for acquisitions in the future, including acquisitions in adjacent states. The success of acquisitions depends on many factors, including the long term retention of acquired customer relationships. The Company recorded goodwill and other intangible assets in conjunction with the Woronoco acquisition, and such assets may be recorded in future acquisitions. If these investments were to become impaired, the Company would be required to write them down. Back to Index -17- The Company is subject to risks which are common to its industry. Large changes in market interest rates can compress its margins and make its asset and liability management less reliable. A downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt the Company’s profits. Most of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in real estate values in the Bank’s market areas. A decline in real estate values could expose the Company to a greater risk of loss. Additionally, strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt the Company’s profit and growth. Berkshire Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Some competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than it has and may offer services that Berkshire Bank does not provide. Competition will likely increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company’s profitability depends on the Bank’s continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. Berkshire Bank and the Company operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, its chartering authority, and Berkshire Bank is subject to extensive supervision and examination by the Massachusetts Division of Banks, its chartering authority, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of Berkshire Bank’s deposits. Such regulations and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory claim may have a material impact on Berkshire Bank’s operations. The Company primarily depends on the Bank for dividends as a source of funds to service its indebtedness and to pay dividends to shareholders. Such dividends may be restricted or prohibited by regulatory authorities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 