ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND NEED FOR FINANCING We have incurred substantial losses, expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never generate significant revenue or achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $748,505,000. We have incurred net losses of $16,417,000, $9,859,000, and $4,435,000 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Other than Erivedge, which was approved by the FDA in January 2012 for the treatment of advanced forms of BCC, we have not successfully commercialized any products to date, either alone or in collaboration with others. In December 2012, we, through our subsidiary Curis Royalty, received a $30,000,000 loan pursuant to a credit agreement with BioPharma-II. Under the terms of the credit agreement, our right to certain future royalty and royalty-related payments on the commercial sales of Erivedge will be transferred by Curis Royalty to BioPharma-II to repay the loan. As a result, for the foreseeable future, we will only receive royalties under our collaboration agreement with Genentech to the extent net sales are generated at a level sufficient to derive royalties in excess of Curis Royalty’s obligation to transfer such royalties to BioPharma-II, as only royalties received by Curis Royalty that are in excess of this obligation can be transferred to Curis from Curis Royalty. All of our drug candidates other than Erivedge are in early stages of development. For the foreseeable future, we will need to spend significant capital in an effort to develop and commercialize products and we expect to incur substantial operating losses. Our failure to become and remain profitable would, among other things, depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our research and development programs or continue our operations. We will require substantial additional capital, which may be difficult to obtain. We will require substantial funds to continue our research and development programs and to fulfill our planned operating goals. In particular, our currently planned operating and capital requirements include the need for substantial working capital to support our research and development activities principally for CUDC-427, CUDC-907, CUDC-101 and other drug candidates that we may seek to develop in the future, either from our internal discovery efforts or through acquisition from third parties, and to fund our general and administrative costs and expenses. Other than the loan from BioPharma-II in December 2012, we have historically derived a substantial portion of our operating cash flow from the research funding, milestone payments and royalty revenues that we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements with third parties. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, our revenues were limited to milestone payments and royalties earned under our current collaboration agreements. Further, we transferred our right to certain future royalty and royalty-related payments on the commercial sales of Erivedge as repayment for a loan Curis Royalty entered into with BioPharma-II. Our ability to generate cash flow to operate our business will depend, in part, on royalty payments from the commercial sale of Erivedge, if any, that are in excess of the obligation to transfer certain royalties to BioPharma-II, and the ability of Erivedge to be approved for commercial sale in other countries, which would result in us becoming eligible to receive additional milestone payments, as well as royalties on any future sales. We expect that our only source of cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future will be: • up-front license payments and research and development funding that we may receive if we are able to successfully enter into new collaboration agreements for our technologies under development; • contingent cash payments that we may receive for the achievement of development objectives under any new collaborations or our existing collaborations with Genentech, Debiopharm and LLS; and • royalty payments that are contingent upon the successful commercialization of products based upon these collaborations, including royalties on sales of Erivedge in advanced BCC by Genentech, if any, that exceed the obligation to transfer certain royalties to BioPharma-II, which is approved in the U.S. and is under review for approval in Europe, Australia and other territories by the respective health authorities. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully enter into or continue any corporate collaborations and the timing, amount and likelihood of us receiving payments under such collaborations is highly uncertain, especially in light of the obligation to transfer certain royalties on the commercial sales of Erivedge to BioPharma-II. We anticipate that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, investments and working capital at December 31, 2012 should enable us to maintain current and planned operations into mid-2015. Our future capital requirements, however, may vary from what we currently expect. There are a number of factors that may affect our planned future capital requirements and accelerate our need for additional working capital, many of which are outside our control, including the following: • unanticipated costs in our research and development programs; • the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; • the timing, receipt and amount of payments, if any, from current and potential future collaborators, including the level of any royalty payments from sales of Erivedge; • the timing and amount of payments due to licensors of patent rights and technology used in our drug candidates, including the level of any royalty payments from sales of Erivedge; • unplanned costs to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain and enforce patent claims and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs and technology license fees; and • unexpected losses in our cash investments or an inability to otherwise liquidate our cash investments due to unfavorable conditions in the capital markets. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings of debt or equity. The market for emerging life science stocks in general, and the market for our common stock in particular, are highly volatile. Due to this and various other factors, including potentially adverse general market conditions and the early-stage status of our internal development pipeline and the early stage of the commercial U.S. launch of Erivedge, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the terms of any potential financing may be dilutive or otherwise adversely affect other rights of our stockholders. We also expect to seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators, licensees or other third parties. These arrangements would generally require us to relinquish or encumber rights to some of our technologies or drug candidates, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain such additional funding on a timely basis, whether through payments under existing or future collaborations or license agreement or sales of debt or equity, we may be required to: • delay, limit, reduce or terminate preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for one or more of our drug candidates; or • delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities, either internally or through third parties, or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our drug candidates. We transferred and encumbered certain royalty and royalty-related payments on the commercial sales of Erivedge in connection with our credit agreement with BioPharma-II and, as a result, we could lose all rights to future royalty and royalty-related payments. In December 2012, through Curis Royalty, we received a $30,000,000 loan pursuant to a credit agreement with BioPharma-II. In connection with the loan, we transferred to Curis Royalty our right to receive certain future royalty and royalty-related payments on the commercial sales of Erivedge that we receive from Genentech. The loan and accrued interest will be repaid by Curis Royalty using such royalty and royalty-related payments. To secure repayment of the loan, Curis Royalty granted a first priority lien and security interest (subject only to 19 Table of Contents permitted liens) to BioPharma-II in all of its assets and all real, intangible and personal property, including all of its right, title and interest in and to the royalty and royalty-related payments. The loan constitutes an obligation of Curis Royalty, and is intended to be non-recourse to Curis. Per the terms of the credit agreement, neither Curis nor Curis Royalty guaranteed any level of future royalty or royalty-related payments or the value of such payments as collateral to the loan. However, in certain circumstances, the obligations of Curis Royalty under the credit agreement to repay the loan may be accelerated, including: • if any payment of principal is not made within three days of when such payment is due and payable or otherwise made in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement; • if any representations or warranties made in the credit agreement or any other transaction document proves to be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made; • if there occurs a default in the performance of affirmative and negative covenants set forth in the credit agreement or under certain ancillary transaction documents; • the failure by Genentech to pay material amounts owed under the collaboration agreement with Genentech because of an actual breach or default by Curis under the collaboration agreement; • a material breach or default by Curis Royalty under certain ancillary transaction documents, in each case, which breach or default is not cured within 30 days after written demand thereof by BioPharma-II; • the voluntary or involuntary commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by either Curis or Curis Royalty and other insolvency related defaults; • any materially adverse effect on the binding nature of any of the transaction documents or the Genentech collaboration agreement; • if any person shall be designated as an independent director of Curis Royalty other than in accordance with its limited liability company operating agreement; or • if Curis shall at any time cease to own, of record and beneficially, 100% of the equity interests in Curis Royalty. If any of the above were to occur, Curis Royalty may not have sufficient funds to pay the accelerated obligation and BioPharma-II could foreclose on the secured royalty and royalty-related payment stream. In such an event, we might lose our right to royalty and royalty-related payments not transferred to BioPharma-II, including those we would otherwise be entitled to receive if, or when, Curis Royalty satisfied its obligations to BioPharma-II under the credit agreement. Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or drug candidates. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings of debt or equity. For example, in June 2011 we entered into an At Market Issuance Sales Agreement, or ATM agreement, with McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak LLC, or MLV, pursuant to which, from time to time, we may offer and sell up to $20 million of common stock that was registered pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement through MLV pursuant to one or more “at the market” offerings. In addition, with our prior written approval, MLV may also sell these shares of common stock by any other method permitted by law, including in privately negotiated transactions. The market for emerging life science stocks in general, and the market for our common stock in particular, is highly volatile. Due to this and various other factors, including adverse general market conditions, the early-stage status of our development pipeline and the early stage of the commercial U.S. launch of Erivedge, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to sell additional shares under the arrangement with MLV at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may be dilutive or otherwise adversely affect other rights of our stockholders. 20 Table of Contents We also expect to seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators, licensees or other third parties, however we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. These arrangements would generally require us to relinquish or encumber rights to some of our technologies or drug candidates. For example, in December 2012 we, through Curis Royalty, closed on a loan with BioPharma-II in the principal amount of $30,000,000. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, our right to certain future royalty and royalty-related payments on the commercial sales of Erivedge were transferred by Curis Royalty to BioPharma-II to repay the loan. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, whether through sales of debt or equity or through third party collaboration or license arrangements, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our development programs. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. Some of the factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate on a period-to-period basis include: • the status of our preclinical and clinical development programs; • the level of expenses incurred in connection with our preclinical and clinical development programs, including development costs relating to CUDC-427, CUDC-907 and CUDC-101; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit or other litigation in which we may become involved; • the implementation of restructuring and cost-savings strategies; • the implementation or termination of collaboration, licensing, manufacturing or other material agreements with third parties, and non-recurring revenue or expenses under any such agreement; and • compliance with regulatory requirements. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price. Our general business strategy and prospects may be adversely affected by the uncertain economic conditions, volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions, both domestically and abroad. If equity and credit markets are unfavorable, it may make future debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon research and development plans. At December 31, 2012, we had $58,701,000 of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and long-term investments consisting of cash, money market, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and government obligations. While as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or marketable securities since December 31, 2012, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. There is a possibility that our stock price may decline due to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn. 21 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCTS We are reliant on Genentech for the successful development and commercialization of Erivedge. If Genentech does not successfully commercialize Erivedge for advanced BCC, or develop Erivedge for other indications, our future prospects may be substantially harmed. In January 2012, Erivedge was approved by the FDA as the first and only FDA-approved medicine for people with advanced BCC. Genentech and/or Roche have also filed regulatory submissions in several other territories seeking approval to commercialize Erivedge for this same indication. Genentech and Roche are also conducting a phase II clinical trial of Erivedge in operable nodular BCC and Erivedge is currently being tested in other cancers under collaborative agreements between Genentech and either third-party investigators or the NCI. Our near-term prospects substantially depend upon Genentech’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize Erivedge in one or more indications and to demonstrate its safety and efficacy, as well as its superiority over existing therapies and standards of care. The development and commercialization of Erivedge could be unsuccessful if: • Erivedge for the treatment of advanced BCC is not accepted as safe, efficacious, cost-effective, and preferable to current therapies in the medical community and by third-party payors; • Genentech and/or Roche fails to apply the necessary financial resources and expertise to manufacturing, marketing and selling Erivedge for advanced BCC and to regulatory approvals for this indication outside of the U.S.; • Genentech and/or Roche do not develop and implement effective marketing, sales and distribution strategies and operations, for development and commercialization of Erivedge for advanced BCC; • Genentech and/or Roche do not develop, validate and maintain a commercially viable manufacturing process for Erivedge that is compliant with current good manufacturing practices; • Genentech and/or Roche do not successfully obtain third party reimbursement and generate commercial demand that results in sales of Erivedge for advanced BCC in any geographic areas where requisite approvals have been, or may be, obtained; • we or Genentech and/or Roche encounter any third party patent interference or patent infringement claims with respect to Erivedge; • Genentech and/or Roche do not comply with any and all regulatory and legal requirements applicable to the sale of Erivedge for advanced BCC; • new safety risks are identified after Erivedge is commercially marketed; and/or • Erivedge does not demonstrate acceptable safety and efficacy in current or future clinical trials, or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory standards for approval in indications other than advanced BCC. In addition, pursuant to the terms of our credit agreement with BioPharma-II, for the foreseeable future we will only realize royalty revenue under our collaboration agreement with Genentech to the extent Genentech and Roche successfully commercialize Erivedge in the advanced BCC indication such that net sales are generated at a level sufficient to derive royalties in excess of the obligation to transfer such royalties to BioPharma-II. The therapeutic efficacy of targeted drug candidates being developed is unproven in humans, and we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize CUDC-427, CUDC-907, CUDC-101, Debio 0932 or any other drug candidates pursuant to these programs. Our targeted drug candidates, including CUDC-427, CUDC-907, CUDC-101 or Debio 0932, are novel compounds and their potential benefit as therapeutic cancer drugs is unproven. Our ability to generate revenues from these drug candidates, which we do not expect will occur in the short term, if ever, will depend heavily on 22 Table of Contents the successful development and eventual commercialization of our drug candidates. Continued development and eventual commercialization is subject to many potential risks. The drug candidates may not prove to be effective inhibitors of the cancer targets they are being designed to act against and may not demonstrate in patients any or all of the pharmacological benefits that may have been demonstrated in preclinical studies. The drug candidates may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If our drug candidates are associated with undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective. Many compounds that initially showed promise in early stage testing for treating cancer have later been found to cause side effects that prevented further development of the compound. As a result of these and other risks described herein that are inherent in the development of novel therapeutic agents, we may never successfully develop, enter into or maintain third party licensing or collaboration transactions with respect to, or successfully commercialize CUDC-427, CUDC-907, CUDC-101 or Debio 0932, or any other targeted drug candidates, in which case we will not achieve profitability and the value of our stock may decline. We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular drug candidate or indication and fail to capitalize on drug candidates or indications that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on research programs and drug candidates that we identify for specific indications. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other drug candidates or for other indications that later prove to have greater commercial potential. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future proprietary research and development programs and drug candidates for specific indications may not yield any commercially viable products. If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that drug candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such drug candidate. We depend on third parties for the development of certain of our programs. If one or more of our collaborators fails or delays in developing or commercializing drug candidates based upon our technologies, our business prospects and operating results would suffer and our stock price would likely decline. We currently have a collaboration with Genentech pursuant to which we have granted to Genentech exclusive rights to develop and commercialize products based upon our Hedgehog pathway technologies. In January 2012, Genentech obtained FDA approval to commercialize Erivedge, the sole compound being developed under this collaboration, in advanced BCC. Genentech and Roche are also conducting, both alone and in collaboration, further studies of Erivedge for other indications. In addition, we entered into a license agreement with Debiopharm pursuant to which Debiopharm is testing Debio 0932 in a phase Ib clinical trial in advanced solid tumors and in a phase I/II clinical study in patients with advanced NSCLS. Debiopharm also has plans to initiate a phase I/II study in patients with renal cell carcinoma. Our collaboration agreement with Genentech and our license agreement with Debiopharm are our most significant collaborations, and these collaborations may not be scientifically or commercially successful due to a number of factors, including the following: • Genentech and Debiopharm each have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to their respective collaboration with us. The timing and amount of any cash payments related to royalties, if any, and the achievement of development objectives that we may receive under such collaborative arrangements will depend on, among other things, our collaboration partners’ efforts, allocation of resources and successful development and commercialization of our drug candidates under their respective agreements with us. 23 Table of Contents • Our agreements with Genentech and Debiopharm each permits the other party wide discretion in deciding which drug candidates to advance through the clinical trial process. It is possible for Genentech or Debiopharm to reject drug candidates at any point in the research, development and clinical trial process, without triggering a termination of the applicable agreement. In the event of any such decision, our business and prospects may be adversely affected and we may not have the commercial rights or the resources necessary to advance such programs on our own. • We have granted clinical development rights to Genentech and Debiopharm, respectively, under our agreements with each of them. If they fail to allocate sufficient time, attention and resources to clinical trials of drug candidates under these collaborations, or fail to comply with good clinical practices or other applicable regulatory requirements for such clinical trials, the successful clinical development and commercialization of such drug candidates is likely to be adversely affected, as will our ability to generate revenue from such collaborations. • Genentech or Debiopharm may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with the drug candidates that are the subject of its collaboration with us. For example, Genentech and Debiopharm each are seeking to develop several other cancer drug therapies. • Genentech or Debiopharm may change the focus of its development and commercialization efforts or pursue higher-priority programs. Our ability to successfully commercialize drug candidates under collaboration with Genentech or Debiopharm could be limited if Genentech or Debiopharm decreases or fails to increase spending related to such drug candidates. • Debiopharm may enter into one or more transactions with third parties, including a merger, consolidation, reorganization, sale of substantial assets, sale of substantial stock or change of control. Any such transaction could divert the attention of our collaborative partner’s management and adversely affect its ability to retain and motivate key personnel who are important to the continued development of the programs under such collaboration. In addition, an acquirer could determine to reprioritize our collaborator’s development programs such that our collaborator ceases to diligently pursue the development of our programs, and/or terminates its collaboration with us. Genentech is a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group and as such is subject to the risk that Roche could determine to reprioritize Genentech’s development programs which could reduce Genentech’s efforts on the development or commercialization of Erivedge or cause Genentech to terminate our collaboration. • Genentech or Debiopharm may, under specified circumstances, terminate its collaboration with us on short notice and for circumstances outside of our control, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the scientific and financial communities. • Both Genentech and Debiopharm have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights under their respective agreements and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators’ acts or omissions. • Genentech or Debiopharm may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability. • Genentech or Debiopharm may not comply with all applicable regulatory requirements, may select clinical investigators who are not qualified or who fail to comply with protocols or applicable regulatory requirements, or may fail to report safety data in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. • If either Genentech or Debiopharm were to breach or terminate its arrangement with us, the development and commercialization of the affected drug candidate could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of the drug candidate on our own. 24 Table of Contents • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may not have sufficient resources necessary to advance clinical development of drug candidates under our collaborations with each of them or may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If Genentech or Debiopharm fails to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates under collaboration, we may not be able to develop and commercialize these candidates independently or successfully enter into one or more alternative collaborations, in which event our financial condition, results of operations and stock price may be adversely affected. We may not be successful in establishing additional strategic collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our current strategy is to seek corporate collaborators or licensees for the further development and commercialization of one or more of our targeted drug candidates, generally following our completion of at least phase I or phase II clinical testing. For example, while we are not presently seeking to enter into corporate collaborations for any of our proprietary programs, we are likely to seek to partner CUDC-427, CUDC-907, and CUDC-101 as well as other drug candidates that we may develop internally or acquire from third parties in the future. We do not currently have the resources or capacity to advance these programs into later stage clinical development (i.e., phase III) or commercialization on our own. As such, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to enter into one or more such collaborations. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and a number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators. In addition, collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a collaboration or other alternative arrangements for CUDC-427, CUDC-907, CUDC-101 or any future programs because our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, our programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and/or third parties may not view our drug candidates and programs as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy or sufficient differentiability compared to existing or emerging treatments. Even if we are successful in our efforts to establish new collaborations, the terms that we agree upon may not be favorable to us and such collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of drug candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. Moreover, if we fail to establish and maintain additional strategic partnerships related to our drug candidates: • the development of certain of our current or future drug candidates may be terminated or delayed; • our cash expenditures related to development of certain of our current or future drug candidates would increase significantly and we may need to seek additional financing; • we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as additional clinical, regulatory, sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; • we will bear all of the risk related to the development of any such drug candidates; and • our future prospects may be adversely affected and our stock price could decline. If preclinical studies and clinical trials of our drug candidates are not successful then our future profitability and success could be adversely affected. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our drug candidates, we and any current or potential future collaborators will be required to complete extensive preclinical studies as well as clinical trials in humans to demonstrate to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that our drug candidates are safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. 25 Table of Contents Development, including preclinical and clinical testing, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. Preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates may not be successful. We and our collaborators could experience delays or failures in preclinical testing or clinical trials of any of our drug candidates for a number of reasons including, for example: • preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results; • we or any collaborators may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or terminate testing for a particular drug candidate; • the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; • we may encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the drug candidate used in any preclinical study or clinical trial; • we may have delays in reaching or fail to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites; • the cost of clinical trials of our drug candidates may be greater than we anticipate; • the timing and completion of clinical trials of our drug candidates depend on, among other factors, the number of patients required to be enrolled in the clinical trials and the rate at which those patients are enrolled, and any increase in the required number of patients, decrease in recruitment rates or difficulties retaining study participants may result in increased costs, program delays or program termination; • our products under development may not be effective in treating any of the projected cancer indications or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their commercial use; • we, our clinical investigators, or our current or potential future collaborators and subcontractors, may fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including GCPs and requirements regarding the disclosure of clinical trial information; • institutional review boards, regulators, including the FDA or its foreign equivalents, or any collaborators may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our drug candidates for various reasons, including failure to achieve established success criteria, noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • we, along with any of our current or potential future collaborators and subcontractors, may not employ, in any capacity, persons who have been debarred under the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy, or similar policy under foreign regulatory authorities, nor may we or any of our current or potential future collaborators or subcontractors use disqualified clinical investigators or institutions to perform clinical trials of our drug candidates. Employment or use of such a debarred or disqualified person or institution may result in delays in FDA’s or foreign equivalent’s review or approval of our products, or the rejection of data developed with the involvement of such person(s) or institution(s). If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our drug candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials of our drug candidates or other testing, if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may: • be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our drug candidates; • not obtain marketing approval at all; • obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended or with labeling that highlights undesirable safety risks; 26 Table of Contents • have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval; • be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements; • be subject to restrictions on how the product is distributed or used; or • be unable to obtain reimbursement for use of the product. If any of the above were to occur, our reputation and our ability to raise additional capital will be materially impaired and our stock price is likely to decline. If we experience delays in the enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, our receipt of necessary regulatory approvals could be delayed or prevented. We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for our drug candidates if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these trials. In addition, many of our competitors have ongoing clinical trials for drug candidates that could be competitive with our drug candidates. Patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors’ drug candidates or rely upon treatment with existing therapies that may preclude them from eligibility for our clinical trials. Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our drug candidates, which would cause the value of the company to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients for any of our current or future clinical trials would result in significant delays or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether. We expect to rely in part on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our internally-developed drug candidates, and if such third parties perform inadequately, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such trials, research or testing, then we will not be able to successfully develop and commercialize drug candidates and grow our business. For the foreseeable future, we expect to rely substantially on third parties such as consultants, clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other similar entities to complete certain aspects of our preclinical testing and clinical trials and provide services in connection with such clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities will reduce our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. These third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or at all, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with the clinical trial protocol or design. In addition, the FDA and its foreign equivalents require us to comply with certain standards, referred to as good clinical practices, and applicable regulatory requirements, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If any of the third party contractors on whom we rely do not comply with good clinical practices or other applicable regulatory requirements, we may not be able to use the data and reported results from the applicable trial. Any failure by a third party to conduct our clinical trials as planned or in accordance with regulatory requirements could delay or otherwise adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates. If we and our collaborative partners do not obtain, or if there are delays in obtaining, necessary regulatory approvals, then we will not be able to commercialize our drug candidates and our business will be materially impaired and the market price of our common stock could substantially decline. We and our collaborators will be required to obtain regulatory approval in order to successfully advance drug candidates through the clinic and prior to marketing and selling such products. We have limited experience 27 Table of Contents in filing and prosecuting applications to obtain marketing approval. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals is expensive and the time required for these approvals is uncertain and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. During the course of this process, the FDA or a foreign equivalent may determine that a drug candidate is not effective, or is only moderately effective, or has undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities, safety profile or other characteristics that preclude our obtaining marketing approval. With respect to our internal programs, we have limited experience in filing and prosecuting applications to obtain marketing approval. Any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which we or our collaborative partners may market the product, to labeling that highlights undesirable safety risks, or to distribution and use restrictions or other requirements under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS. These limitations may restrict the size of the market for the product and affect reimbursement by third-party payors. In addition, regulatory agencies may not grant approvals on a timely basis or may revoke or significantly modify previously granted approvals. We and our collaborators are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the manufacturing and marketing of potential future products outside of the U.S. The approval procedure varies among countries, additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions, and the time required to obtain foreign approvals often differs from that required to obtain FDA approvals. Moreover, approval by the FDA or a foreign equivalent does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and vice versa. In addition, regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We and any collaborative partners may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements. As a result of these factors, we and any collaborators may not successfully begin or complete clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approval to market and sell drug candidates in the time periods estimated, if at all. Moreover, if we or any collaborators incur costs and delays in development programs or fail to successfully develop and commercialize products based upon our technologies, our ability to generate revenues will be materially impaired and our stock price could decline. Even if marketing approval is obtained, any products we or any collaborators develop will be subject to ongoing regulatory oversight, which may affect the successful commercialization of such products. Even if we or any collaborators obtain regulatory approval of a drug candidate, the approval may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product can be marketed, require labeling that highlights undesirable safety risks, impose restrictions on how the product can be distributed and used pursuant to a REMS, or require costly post-marketing follow-up studies. After marketing approval for any product is obtained, the manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities for that product will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA, or its foreign equivalent, and other regulatory agencies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, or with the manufacturer or facility, or a failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market, fines, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal to permit the import or export of our products or those of our collaborators, and criminal prosecution. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our or our collaborators’ drug candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. If we or our collaborators are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or they may lose any marketing approvals that have been obtained, which would adversely affect the amount of revenue generated from such products and adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. 28 Table of Contents In addition to regulations imposed by the FDA or foreign equivalents, we and our current collaborators are, and any potential future collaborators will be, subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Research Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as regulations administered by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, national restrictions on technology transfer, import, export and customs regulations and certain other local, state or federal regulations. From time to time, other federal agencies and congressional committees have indicated an interest in implementing further regulation of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We are not able to predict whether any such regulations will be adopted or whether, if adopted, such regulations will apply to our business, or whether we or any collaborators would be able to comply with any applicable regulations. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in actions such as: • restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes; • restrictions on the marketing of a product; • restrictions on product distribution; • requirements to conduct post-marketing clinical trials; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit; • recall of products; • fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenue; • suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals; • refusal to permit the import or export of our products; • product seizure; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our potential future relationships with customers and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any drug candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Our potential future arrangements with third-party payors and customers may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include the following: • the federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federally funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; • the federal False Claims Act imposes criminal and civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including 29 Table of Contents mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • the federal false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services; • the federal transparency requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to physician payments and other transfers of value and physician ownership and investment interests; and • analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. Efforts to ensure that our future business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations would involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that such business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business in the future are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs. If we or any of our collaborators fail to achieve market acceptance for any approved products, our future revenue and ability to achieve profitability may be adversely affected. Our future products, including those developed under collaborations with third parties, may not gain commercial acceptance among physicians, patients and third-party payors, even if necessary marketing approvals have been obtained. The degree of market acceptance of our drug candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments; • the price we charge for our drugs; • convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative treatments; • the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; • our ability to successfully develop companion diagnostics that effectively identify patient populations likely to benefit from treatment with our therapeutic products; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If we or our collaborators are not able to obtain market acceptance for such products, our expected revenues from sales of these products would be adversely affected and our business may not be successful. 30 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY, STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS We and our collaborators may not achieve projected research and development goals in the time frames that we or they announce, which could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause our stock price to decline. We set goals for, and make public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments, such as the commencement and completion of preclinical studies, initiation and completion of clinical trials, and other developments and milestones under our proprietary programs and those programs being developed under collaboration agreements. Genentech is a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group and Roche has also made public statements regarding its expectations for the clinical development and potential regulatory approval of Erivedge in territories other than the U.S., and may in the future make additional statements about its goals and expectations for this collaboration with us. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors including without limitation delays or failures in our and our current and potential future collaborators’ preclinical studies or clinical trials, the amount of time, effort and resources committed to our programs by us and our current and potential future collaborators and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. As a result: • our or our current and potential future collaborators’ preclinical studies and clinical trials may not advance or be completed in the time frames we or they announce or expect; • we or our current and potential future collaborators may not make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned; and • we or our current and potential future collaborators may not be able to adhere to our current schedule for the achievement of key milestones under any of our internal or collaborative programs. If we or any collaborators fail to achieve the above research and development goals as planned, our business could be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock could decline. We face substantial competition, which may result in our competitors discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our drug candidates face competition from existing and new technologies and products being developed by biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, as well as universities and other research institutions. For example, we are aware of several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have drug development programs relating to compounds that modulate the Hedgehog pathway. We believe that there are currently at least five other companies that have progressed Hedgehog pathway inhibitors into clinical development: Eli Lilly and Company, Exelixis, Inc. (in co-development with the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company); Pfizer Inc.; Novartis International AG; and Millennium Pharmaceuticals. In addition, there are several companies developing drug candidates that target the same cancer pathways that we are targeting or that are testing drug candidates in the same cancer indications that we are testing. For example, Debiopharm SA, Novartis AG and Tetralogic, Inc. are all developing IAP inhibitors and several companies are investigating HSP90 inhibitors in clinical testing, including, among others Astex Therapeutics Ltd., Daiichi Sankyo, Esanex, Inc., Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co, Ltd., Novartis International AG, Samus Therapeutics, Inc. and Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. There are commercially-available drugs that individually target either HDAC or EGFR as well as a drug that targets EGFR/Her2. There are also several drug candidates in clinical testing that are designed to inhibit one or more of these targets. However, we are not aware of other molecules in clinical testing that are designed to simultaneously target HDAC, EGFR and Her2 or HDAC and PI3K simultaneously. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and more extensive experience than we have. As a result, efforts by other life science, medical device 31 Table of Contents and pharmaceutical companies could render our programs or products uneconomical or result in therapies superior to those that we develop alone or with a collaborator. For those programs that we have selected for internal development, we face competition from companies that are more experienced in product development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. As a result, any of these companies may be more successful in obtaining collaboration agreements or other monetary support, approval and commercialization of their products and/or may develop competing products more rapidly and/or at a lower cost. If we are not able to compete effectively, then we may not be able, either alone or with others, to advance the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, which would adversely affect our ability to grow our business and become profitable. Product liability lawsuits against us could divert our resources, cause us to incur substantial liabilities and limit commercialization of any products that we may develop. Product liability claims are inherent in the process of researching, developing and commercializing human health care products and could expose us to significant liabilities and prevent or interfere with the development or commercialization of our drug candidates. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims would require us to spend significant time, money and other resources to defend such claims, could result in decreased demand for our future products or result in reputational harm and could result in the payment of a significant damage award. Although we currently have product liability insurance for our clinical trials, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and may not be adequate in scope to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim. Product liability insurance is expensive and may be difficult to retain. As such, it is possible that we will not be able to retain product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or that our product liability insurance coverage will prove to be inadequate to protect us from all potential claims. If we are not able to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel and advisors, we may not successfully develop our drug candidates or achieve our other business objectives. We depend upon our senior management, including Daniel R. Passeri, our Chief Executive Officer, Ali Fattaey, Ph.D., President and Chief Operating Officer, Maurizio Voi, M.D., our Chief Medical and Chief Development Officer, and Michael P. Gray, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our officers all serve pursuant to “at will” employment arrangements and can terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of these officers. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to research, develop and successfully commercialize products in our areas of core competency. Our ability to operate successfully will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain these individuals, and our failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business. 32 Table of Contents We may seek to acquire complementary businesses and technologies or otherwise seek to expand our operations to grow our business, which may divert management resources and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may seek to expand our operations, including without limitation through internal growth and/or the acquisition of businesses and technologies that we believe are a strategic complement to our business model. For example, we licensed CUDC-427 from Genentech in November 2012 for payments totaling $9,500,000. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or expansion strategies and successfully complete such acquisitions or successfully execute any such other expansion strategies. We may never realize the anticipated benefits of any efforts to expand our business. Furthermore, the expansion of our business, either through internal growth or through acquisitions, poses significant risks to our existing operations, financial condition and operating results, including: • a diversion of management from our existing operations; • increased operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and resources; • significant additional cash expenditures to expand our operations and acquire and integrate new businesses and technologies; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology and other resources of any acquired companies; • uncertainty related to the value, benefits or legitimacy of intellectual property or technologies acquired; • retaining and assimilating key personnel and the potential impairment of relationships with our employees; • incurrence of debt, other liabilities and contingent liabilities, including potentially unknown contingent liabilities; and • dilutive stock issuances. Any business that we conduct in China will expose us to risks resulting from adverse changes in political, legal and economic policies of the Chinese government, which could impede our efforts in China and materially and adversely affect the development of our targeted cancer drug candidates. We have a subsidiary in China, Curis Shanghai, which is currently licensed to conduct business but is not operational. Conducting business in China exposes us to a variety of risks and uncertainties that are unique to China. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Recent evidence of a slowdown in the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in interruptions of our development efforts in China. If our research and development efforts in China are delayed due to such interruptions, we may not realize the reductions in costs anticipated from doing business in China. We would also have to consider moving our chemistry and/or biology research that is currently conducted in China to U.S. or European providers, thereby potentially either increasing our overall costs for such services or reducing the total number of chemists and or/biologists that we could engage. In addition, the Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the 33 Table of Contents promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Our business could be materially harmed by any changes in the political, legal or economic climate in China or the inability to enforce applicable Chinese laws and regulations. If the estimates we make and the assumptions on which we rely in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary significantly. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges taken by us and related disclosure. Such estimates and judgments include the carrying value of our property, equipment and intangible assets, revenue recognition, the value of certain liabilities, including the fair value of our warrant liability, the repayment term of our loan with BioPharma-II and stock-based compensation expense. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. Accordingly, our actual financial results may vary significantly from the estimates contained in our financial statements. For a further discussion of the estimates and judgments that we make and the critical accounting policies that affect these estimates and judgments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our drug candidates may be delayed. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may not be able to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technologies and products, our licensors may not be able to obtain and maintain patent protection for the technology or products that we license from them and the patent protection we or they do obtain may not be sufficient to stop our competitors from using similar technology. The long-term success of our business depends in significant part on our ability to: • obtain patents to protect our technologies and discoveries; • protect trade secrets from disclosure to third-party competitors; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and life science companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The laws, procedures and standards that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign intellectual property offices use to grant patents, and the standards that courts use to interpret patents, are not always applied predictably or uniformly and have changed 34 Table of Contents in significant ways and are expected to continue to change. Consequently, the level of protection, if any, that will be obtained and provided by our patents if we attempt to enforce them, and they are challenged, is uncertain. Patents may not issue from any of the patent applications that we own or license. If patents do issue, the type and extent of patent claims issued to us may not be sufficient to protect our technology from exploitation by our competitors. In addition, issued patents that we own or license may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the U.S. and in many countries abroad are maintained in secrecy until 18 months after filing, it is possible that third parties have filed or maintained patent applications for technology used by us or covered by our pending patent applications without our knowledge. The U.S. Congress recently passed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which reforms U.S. patent law in part by changing the standard for patent approval from a “first to invent” standard to a “first to file” standard and instituting a post-grant review system. This new legislation changes U.S. patent law in a way that may weaken our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for future inventions in the U.S. We may not have rights under patents that may cover one or more of our drug candidates. In some cases, these patents may be owned or controlled by third-party competitors and may prevent or impair our ability to exploit our technology. As a result, we or our current or potential future collaborative partners may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to develop and commercialize some of our drug candidates. If we are unable to secure licenses to such patented technology on acceptable terms, we or our collaborative partners may not be able to develop and commercialize the affected drug candidate or candidates. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Moreover, in some circumstances, we do not have the right to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain the patents, covering technology or products that we license from third parties and are reliant on our licensors. For example, we do not control the prosecution of certain patent rights licensed to us under our IAP agreement with Genentech. Therefore, we cannot be certain that these patents and applications will be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the U.S. and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or freedom to operate or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new drug candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. We may become involved in expensive and unpredictable patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings, which could result in liability for damages or require us to cease our development and commercialization efforts. There are substantial litigation and other adversarial opposition proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and life science industries. We may become a party to patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights. Situations that may give rise to patent litigation or other disputes over the use of our intellectual property include: • initiation of litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to seek to invalidate the patents held by these third parties or to obtain a judgment that our drug candidates do not infringe the third parties’ patents; 35 Table of Contents • participation in interference and/or derivation proceedings to determine the priority of invention if our competitors file U.S. patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us; • initiation of opposition, reexamination, post grant review or inter partes review proceedings by third parties that seek to limit or eliminate the scope of our patent protection; • initiation of litigation by third parties claiming that our processes or drug candidates or the intended use of our drug candidates infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights; and • initiation of litigation by us or third parties seeking to enforce contract rights relating to intellectual property that may be important to our business. The costs associated with any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved favorably, will likely be substantial and a distraction to management. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or other proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. In addition, our collaborators and licensors may have rights to file and prosecute claims of infringement of certain of our intellectual property and we are reliant on them. If a patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding is resolved unfavorably, we or any collaborative partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our future products without a license from the other party and be held liable for significant damages. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all. In addition, we could be held liable for lost profits if we are found to have infringed a valid patent, or liable for treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a valid patent. Litigation results are highly unpredictable and we or any collaborative partner may not prevail in any patent litigation or other proceeding in which we may become involved. Any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could damage our ability to compete in the marketplace. We face risks relating to the enforcement of our intellectual property rights in China that could adversely affect our business. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we conducted synthetic chemistry work through a contract research agreement with a medicinal chemistry provider in China. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights under this arrangement through, among other things, non-disclosure and assignment of invention covenants. Implementation and enforcement of Chinese intellectual property-related laws has historically been inconsistent and damages assessed may fail to reflect the true value of the infringed technology and its market. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the U.S. or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of Chinese courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. We rely significantly on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect this information through confidentiality and intellectual property license or assignment provisions in agreements with our employees, consultants and other third-party contractors, including our contract research agreement with a medicinal chemistry provider in China, as well as through other security measures. The confidentiality and intellectual property provisions of our agreements and security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. 36 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are party to agreements that provide for licenses to us of intellectual property or sharing of rights to intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future that provide licenses to us of valuable technology. These licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain contingencies. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we would lose valuable rights and could lose our ability to develop our products. We may need to license other intellectual property to commercialize future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. RISKS RELATING TO MANUFACTURING AND SALES We depend on third parties to produce our products under development, and if these third parties do not successfully formulate or manufacture these drug candidates, our business will be harmed. We have no manufacturing experience or manufacturing capabilities. In order to continue to develop drug candidates, apply for regulatory approvals, and commercialize our products under development, we or any collaborators must be able to manufacture products in adequate clinical and commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our drug candidates may be complex, difficult to accomplish and difficult to scale-up when large-scale production is required. Manufacture may be subject to delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our drug candidates may make them prohibitively expensive. To the extent that we or any collaborators seek to enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we and such collaborators will depend upon these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with government regulations. Contract manufacturers may breach their manufacturing agreements because of factors beyond our and our collaborators’ control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us and our collaborators. Any contract manufacturers with whom we or our collaborators enter into manufacturing arrangements will be subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices or Quality System Regulation and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Any failure by our or our collaborators’ contract manufacturers, any collaborators, or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of drug candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, imposition of clinical holds, seizures or recalls of drug candidates, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of 37 Table of Contents which could significantly and adversely affect our business. If we or a collaborator need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve any new manufacturers in advance. This would involve testing and pre-approval inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. If third-party manufacturers fail to perform their obligations, our competitive position and ability to generate revenue may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including; • we and any collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue certain preclinical and/or clinical trials of products that are under development; • we and any collaborators may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; and • we and any collaborators may not be able to meet commercial demands for any approved products. Because we rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials used in our drug candidates, any delay or interruption in the supply of such raw materials could lead to delays in the manufacture and supply of our drug candidates. We rely on third parties to supply certain raw materials necessary to produce our drug candidates for preclinical studies and clinical trials. There are a small number of suppliers for certain raw materials that we use to manufacture our drug candidates. We purchase these materials from our suppliers on a purchase order basis and do not have long-term supply agreements in place. Such suppliers may not sell these raw materials to us at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms, or delivery of these raw materials may be delayed or interrupted. Although we generally do not begin a preclinical study or clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a drug candidate to complete such study or trial, any significant delay in the supply of raw materials for our drug candidates for an ongoing clinical trial due to the need to replace a third-party supplier could considerably delay completion of certain preclinical studies and/or clinical trials. Moreover, if we were unable to purchase raw materials after regulatory approval had been obtained for our drug candidates, the commercial launch of our drug candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our drug candidates. We have no sales or marketing experience and, as such, plan to depend significantly on third parties who may not successfully market and sell any products we develop. We have no sales, marketing or product distribution experience. If we receive required regulatory approvals to commercialize any of our drug candidates, we plan to rely primarily on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, including our collaborative partners. For example, as part of our agreements with Genentech and Debiopharm, we have granted Genentech and Debiopharm the exclusive rights to distribute certain products resulting from such collaborations, and Genentech is currently distributing Erivedge as part of its U.S. commercialization rights following FDA approval of Erivedge in January 2012. We may have to enter into additional marketing arrangements in the future and we may not be able to enter into these additional arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties and sales through these third parties could be less profitable to us than direct sales. These third parties could sell competing products and may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. Our future revenues will be materially dependent upon the success of the efforts of these third parties. 38 Table of Contents We may seek to independently market products that are not already subject to marketing agreements with other parties. If we determine to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant and skilled marketing staff or sales force; • the cost of establishing a marketing staff or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product; and • our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. Even if we successfully commercialize any products under development, either alone or in collaboration, we face uncertainty with respect to pricing, third-party reimbursement and healthcare reform, all of which could adversely affect the commercial success of our drug candidates. Our ability to collect significant revenues from sales of our products, if commercialized successfully, may depend on our ability, and the ability of any current or potential future collaboration partners or customers, to obtain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for such products from third-party payers such as: • government health administration authorities; • private health insurers; • health maintenance organizations; • pharmacy benefit management companies; and • other healthcare-related organizations. A primary trend in the U.S. healthcare industry and elsewhere is cost containment. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government authorities and third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. We cannot be sure that reimbursement will be available for any product that we commercialize and, if reimbursement is available, the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any drug candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any drug candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. There may be significant delays in obtaining reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA or a foreign equivalent. Moreover, eligibility for reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs, and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the US. Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable payment rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition. In both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or MPDIMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded 39 Table of Contents Medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for physician administered drugs. In addition, this legislation provided authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. Cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products. While the MPDIMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates. Therefore, any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MPDIMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. More recently, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to as the PPACA, a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for health care and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. Effective October 1, 2010, the PPACA revises the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states. Further, the new law imposes a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance have also been enacted, which may affect our business practices with health care practitioners. Although it is too early to determine the full effect of the PPACA, the new law appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting and the results of healthcare reforms such as the PPACA and the MPDIMA may prevent us from maintaining prices for our approved drug candidates that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, to the extent that our approved drug candidates, if any, are marketed outside of the U.S., foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent us from maintaining prices for such products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may fluctuate significantly and the market price of our common stock could drop below the price paid. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, our stock traded within a range of a high price of $5.65 and a low price of $1.97 per share for the period January 1, 2011 through March 6, 2013. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility with respect to pharmaceutical and biotechnology company stocks. Prices for our stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including: • announcements regarding new technologies by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors; • rumors relating to us or our collaborators or competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, including Erivedge royalty revenue that we receive from Genentech, and any subsequent restatement of such results; • actual or anticipated changes to our research and development plans; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; 40 Table of Contents • entering into new collaboration agreements or termination of existing collaboration agreements; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials being conducted by us or any collaborators; • any intellectual property or other lawsuits involving us; • third-party sales of large blocks of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors or significant stockholders; • equity sales by us of our common stock to fund our operations; • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; • FDA or international regulatory actions; • the limited trading volume in our common stock; and • general economic and market conditions, including recent adverse changes in the domestic and international financial markets. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in price during any given period of time. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Future sales of shares of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options and warrants or pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement could result in dilution to our stockholders and negatively affect our stock price. Most of our outstanding common stock can be traded without restriction at any time. As such, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell such shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that are subject to outstanding options and warrants and in the future we may issue additional options, warrants or other derivative securities convertible into our common stock. The exercise of any such options, warrants or other derivative securities, and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock could cause a further decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2012, we have outstanding warrants to purchase 1,373,517 shares of our common stock that contain antidilution adjustment provisions that will result in a decrease in the price and an increase in the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants in the event of certain issuances of common stock by us at prices below $3.55 per share. For example, assuming that we issued and sold shares of common stock in a public offering at $3.00 per share, these warrants would become exercisable for an aggregate of 1,389,757 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $3.51 per share, which is equal to an aggregate of additional 16,240 shares as a result of the adjustment. To the extent that we are required to adjust the price and number of shares underlying these warrants as a result of this antidilution clause, and thereafter such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued that will be eligible for resale in the public market, which could result in added dilution to our security holders and could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We currently have on file with the SEC a “universal” shelf registration statement which allows us to offer and sell registered common stock, preferred stock and warrants from time to time pursuant to one or more 41 Table of Contents offerings at prices and terms to be determined at the time of sale. For example, in June 2011 we entered into the ATM Agreement with MLV pursuant to which, from time to time, we may offer and sell up to $20 million of the common stock that was registered on this shelf registration statement through MLV pursuant to one or more “at the market” offerings. In addition, with our prior written approval, MLV may also sell these shares of common stock by any other method permitted by law, including in privately negotiated transactions. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under this registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives, and if our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide an attestation report on our internal controls but is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain (i) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (ii) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and (iii) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, hire additional employees for our finance and audit functions, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) continue steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the attestation process by our independent registered public accounting firm, if required, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and our stock price could decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and any return to investors will come, if at all, only from potential increases in the price of our common stock. At the present time, we intend to use available funds to finance our operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of our board of directors, no common stock dividends have been declared or paid by us and we have no intention of paying any common stock dividends in the foreseeable future. Insiders have substantial influence over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of December 31, 2012, we believe that our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to exert influence over the management and affairs of our company and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or 42 Table of Contents • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable or prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control of our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. For example, we have divided our board of directors into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms, we may issue shares of our authorized “blank check” preferred stock and our stockholders are limited in their ability to call special stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control transaction. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 