ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business and financial results of PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in Part II. Item 7. PNMR may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to PNMR. PNMR is a holding company and, as such, PNMR has no operations of its own. PNMR’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to PNMR. Prior to funding PNMR, PNMR’s subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. PNMR may fail to successfully achieve the anticipated benefits from current or future business development initiatives, joint ventures and acquisitions, including the acquired Twin Oaks business and the EnergyCo joint venture. As part of PNMR’s growth strategy, PNMR is pursuing, and intends to continue to pursue, a disciplined business development and acquisition strategy. While PNMR expects to identify anticipated benefits, potential synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities prior to entering into business initiatives and prior to the acquisition and integration of acquired companies or assets, PNMR may not be able to achieve these anticipated benefits due to, among other things: · delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets, · higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties, · diversion of the attention and resources of its management, · reliance on inaccurate assumptions in evaluating the expected benefits of a given business initiative, joint venture or acquisition, · inability to retain key employees or key customers of business initiatives, joint ventures or acquired companies, · assumption of liabilities unrecognized in the due diligence process, and · actual results may differ materially from the anticipated benefits from current or future business development initiatives, joint ventures and acquisitions. There is no assurance that the EnergyCo joint venture will be able to identify and implement profitable acquisitions. In January 2007, PNMR and ECJV, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cascade, created a new unregulated energy company, temporarily named EnergyCo, which will serve expanding U.S. markets throughout the Southwest, Texas and the West. Under the terms of the agreement, PNMR and ECJV each have a 50 percent ownership interest in EnergyCo, a limited liability company. The Company intends to capitalize on the growth opportunities in these markets through its participation and ownership in EnergyCo. In particular, it is anticipated that ECJV will commit capital for the acquisition of assets and that Cascade will make significant credit guarantees to increase EnergyCo’s scale in its three anticipated business lines: · competitive retail electricity sales; · development, operation and ownership of diverse generation assets; and · wholesale marketing and trading to optimize its assets. In addition to purchasing energy-related assets, EnergyCo could grow by PNMR contributing existing unregulated assets and ECJV, in turn, matching those contributions with cash. This would enable PNMR to better separate its regulated utility operations from its unregulated generation assets and businesses. The separation of regulated and unregulated operations also would increase transparency and reduce complexity in PNMR’s business segments. A-15 There are a number of conditions that must be satisfied in order for EnergyCo to operate successfully. The parties must agree on the cash and/or assets to be contributed by the members of EnergyCo and that that such investment will not result in an adverse effect on PNMR’s credit ratings. EnergyCo must also receive certain financing commitments with respect to its proposed ongoing operations and any regulatory approvals that may be required in connection with the contributions of the members. There can be no assurance that these conditions will be satisfied and PNMR may not realize the benefits it anticipates from the operation of EnergyCo. In addition, there is a risk that EnergyCo will not be able to identify and implement profitable acquisitions. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to complex government regulation, which may have a negative impact on their business, financial position and results of operations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influences their operating environment and may affect their ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the NMPRC, the PUCT, the FERC, the NRC, the EPA, ERCOT, the NMED and the TCEQ regulate many aspects of their utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that the regulated entities can charge customers. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies to operate their business. The rates that PNM and TNMP are allowed to charge for their retail services significantly influence PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Due to continuing federal regulatory reforms, the public utility industry continues to undergo change. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 went into effect in February 2006. The legislation covers many areas, including the items set forth in Note 17 and elsewhere in this report. Implementation of various portions of the law requires the issuance of rules by the FERC. The FERC has adopted final rules implementing various provisions of the Energy Policy Act including rules pertaining to repeal of the PUHCA of 1935, the FERC’s expanded mergers and acquisitions approval authority and prohibition of energy market manipulation. FERC has also issued a number of other proposed rules that are pending, including rules pertaining to preventing undue discrimination in transmission services and electric reliability standards. PNMR will continue to monitor, and participate in as appropriate, the FERC and other proceedings involving implementation of the Energy Policy Act, in order to assess the implications of the new law and rules on its operations. PNMR and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the impact on their business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any agency that regulates them or from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require PNMR and its regulated subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or change business operations, and therefore may have an adverse impact on PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ results of operations. PNM's retail electric rate reduction and retail electric rate freeze, and the New Mexico settlement relating to the TNP acquisition, could adversely affect its profit margin if it does not control costs. Pursuant to an electric retail rate freeze stipulation, PNM decreased its retail electric rates by 6.5% by agreeing to: · a 4% reduction effective September 1, 2003, · an additional 2.5% reduction effective September 1, 2005, and · maintain these reduced retail electric rates through December 31, 2007. The TNP acquisition settlement in New Mexico required the integration of TNMP’s New Mexico assets into PNM effective January 1, 2007 and established how synergy savings would be allocated among PNM’s gas and electric customers. The settlement provided for: · PNM’s 413,000 electric customers will receive rate credits totaling $4.6 million or nearly $1.84 million annually over a 30-month period beginning January 2008, · PNM’s 471,000 gas customers will receive $4.3 million in rate credits over five years, or approximately $0.9 million annually, beginning June 6, 2005, A-16 · a three-phase rate reduction totaling 15%, beginning January 2006 and ending December 2010, to electric customers in southern New Mexico transferred from TNMP to PNM effective January 1, 2007; the rate reduction, which includes TNMP’s annual synergy-savings allocation to customers in southern New Mexico, lowered electric rates by $9.6 million in the first year, · elimination of the fuel and purchased power adjustment clauses for electric customers in southern New Mexico in the first quarter of 2006, and · maintain separate rates for PNM’s electric customers in southern New Mexico, at a minimum, through 2010. PNM's costs, however, are not frozen. Thus, PNM's ability to maintain its profit margins depends upon increased demand for electricity and PNM's efforts to control costs incurred in supplying that electricity, including, in particular, its coal costs. PNM does not have the benefit of a fuel adjustment clause for its retail electric operations that would allow it to recover increased fuel and purchased or increased power costs from customers. Therefore, it is exposed to changes in fuel and power prices to the extent fuel for its electric generating facilities and power must be purchased on the open market in order for it to serve its retail electric customers. If PNM cannot control other operating expenses, the retail electric rate freeze may decrease PNM's profit margin. The retail electric rate freeze will also affect PNM's ability to earn a return or recover from its customers costs associated with investments in generation, transmission and distribution facilities since it will not be able to increase retail electric rates to recover those costs until at least after the end of the rate freeze. In February 2007, PNM filed an electric rate case requesting an increase in general electric rates. See Note 17 for additional information relating to this rate filing. PNMR and PNM are not able to predict what rate treatment PNM will receive following the expiration of the retail electric rate freeze in New Mexico. Some of the factors that influence rates are largely outside their control. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and/or regulatory pressures, PNM may have to agree to further rate freezes, rate refunds or rate reductions, any or all of which could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s and PNM’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The profit margin for PNM’s natural gas distribution business could be adversely affected if PNM does not obtain adequate rate relief and if PNM does not control its costs. On May 30, 2006, PNM filed a general gas rate case that asked the PRC to approve an increase in the service fees charged to its 481,000 natural gas customers. The proposal would increase the set monthly fee, the charge tied to monthly usage and miscellaneous on-demand service fees. Those fees are separate from the cost of gas charged to customers. The monthly cost of gas charge would not be affected by the fee increase. The petition requests an increase in base gas service rates of $20.5 million and an increase in miscellaneous on-demand service rates of approximately $0.2 million. The request is designed to provide PNM’s gas utility an opportunity to earn an 11% return on equity, which is consistent with the average return allowed by ten comparable natural gas utilities. The petition also requests approval of a line item that provides a true-up mechanism for operational costs when system-wide gas consumption is lower or higher than what is designed in the rates. The NMPRC is expected to issue an order in the case by the end of April 2007. PNMR and PNM are not able to predict what rate treatment PNM will receive. Some of the factors that influence rates are largely outside their control. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and/or regulatory pressures, PNM may have to agree to rate freezes, rate refunds or rate reductions, any or all of which could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s and PNM’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The impact from the TNP acquisition settlements could adversely affect TNMP’s profit margin if TNMP does not control costs. The TNP acquisition settlements for TNMP in Texas provide for the following: · a two-year electric rate freeze that includes a $13.0 million annual rate reduction in TNMP's retail delivery rates effective May 1, 2005, and A-17 · a $6.0 million synergy savings credit (whether or not these savings are actually achieved) amortized over 24 months effective after the closing of the transaction. PNMR and TNMP are not able to predict what rate treatment TNMP will receive following the expiration of the retail electric rate provisions in Texas. Some of the factors that influence rates are largely outside their control. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and/or regulatory pressures, TNMP may have to agree to further rate freezes, rate refunds or rate reductions, any or all of which could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s and TNMP’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers and its ability to mitigate the fluctuation in costs of energy supply could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR is exposed to competition in the unregulated Texas retail electricity market through First Choice, which serves customers at competitive rates. In order to compete effectively in the Texas retail electricity market, First Choice must be able to attract and retain customers on the basis of cost and service, while managing the cost of its energy supply. The ability of First Choice to compete successfully in the Texas market could have a significant effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health and financial risks and the risk of a terrorist attack. PNM has a 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS, with portions of its interests in Units 1 and 2 held under leases. PVNGS is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. PNM maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Although the decommissioning trust funds are designed to provide adequate funds for decommissioning at the end of the expected life of the PVNGS units, there is the risk of insufficient decommissioning trust funds in the event of early decommissioning of the units. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur at PVNGS, it could materially and adversely affect PNM’s and PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. PNM’s PVNGS leases describe certain events, including “Events of Loss” and “Deemed Loss Events”, the occurrence of which could require PNM to pay the lessor and the equity investor, in return for the investor's interest in PVNGS, cash in the amount provided in the lease and assume debt obligations relating to the PVNGS leases. The “Events of Loss” generally relate to casualties, accidents and other events at PVNGS, including the occurrence of specified nuclear events, which would severely, adversely affect the ability of the operating agent, APS, to operate, and the ability of PNM to earn a return on its interests in, PVNGS. The “Deemed Loss Events” consist mostly of legal and regulatory changes (such as issuance by the NRC of specified violation orders, changes in law making the sale and leaseback transactions illegal, or changes in law making the lessors liable for nuclear decommissioning obligations). PNM believes that the probability of such “Events of Loss” or “Deemed Loss Events” occurring is remote for the following reasons: (1) to a large extent, prevention of “Events of Loss” and some “Deemed Loss Events” is within the control of the PVNGS participants, including PNM, and the PVNGS operating agent, through the general PVNGS operational and safety oversight process and (2) with respect to other “Deemed Loss Events,” which would involve a significant change in current law and policy, PNM is unaware of any pending proposals or proposals being considered for introduction in Congress, or in any state legislative or regulatory body that, if adopted, would cause any of those events. A-18 The financial performance of PNMR, PNM and TNMP may be adversely affected if their power plants and transmission and distribution system are not successfully operated. The financial performance of PNMR, PNM and TNMP depends on the successful operation of their generation, transmission and distribution assets. Unscheduled or longer than expected maintenance outages, other performance problems with the electric generation assets, severe weather conditions, accidents and other catastrophic events, disruptions in the delivery of fuel and other factors could reduce excess generation capacity and therefore limit PNM’s ability to opportunistically sell excess power in the wholesale market. Diminished generation capacity could also result in PNM’s aggregate net open forward electric sales position being larger than forecasted generation capacity. If this were to occur, purchases of electricity in the wholesale market by PNM would be required under contracts priced at the time of execution or, if in the spot market, at the then-current market price. There can be no assurance that sufficient electricity would be available at reasonable prices, or at all, if such a situation were to occur. Failures of transmission or distribution facilities may also cause interruptions in the services that PNM and TNMP provide. These potential generation, distribution and transmission problems, and any potentially related service interruptions, could result in lost revenues and additional costs. The financial performance of PNMR and PNM may be adversely affected if PVNGS cannot be operated at a satisfactory level or if the NRC imposes restrictions on operation of the plant or any of the three units at PVNGS. Additional information relating to the performance of PVNGS is contained in MD&A. Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or building additional generation capabilities. Through its operating subsidiaries, PNMR is currently obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers. At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed PNMR’s available generation capacity, as was the case with the reduced availability of PVNGS in 2006 and 2005. Market or competitive forces may require that PNMR’s operating subsidiaries purchase capacity on the open market or build additional generation capabilities. Because regulators or market conditions may not permit the operating subsidiaries to pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the operating subsidiaries may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and the recovery in customers’ rates. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for PNMR and the affected operating subsidiary. The operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are subject to risks beyond their control that may reduce their revenues. The revenues of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas. That demand can vary greatly based upon: · weather conditions, including hurricanes, seasonality and temperature extremes as described below, · fluctuations in economic activity and growth in PNMR’s service area and the western region of the United States, · the extent of additional energy available from current or new competitors, · the ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers, and · the expiration of price-to-beat rates in Texas. The operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. Electric power generation and natural gas distribution are generally seasonal businesses. Demand for power from PNMR’s electric operations peaks during the hot summer months, while demand for natural gas peaks during the winter. As a result, the operating results of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, PNMR and its operating subsidiaries have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are milder. Temperature extremes inside an operating subsidiary’s service territory may reduce the amount of power available to sell on the wholesale market. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries. A-19 Drought conditions in New Mexico generally, and especially in the Four Corners region, in which SJGS and the Four Corners Generating Station are located, may affect the water supply for PNM’s generating plants. If adequate precipitation is not received in the watershed that supplies the Four Corners region, PNM may have to decrease generation at these plants, which would reduce PNM’s ability to sell excess power on the wholesale market and reduce its revenues. Drought conditions or actions taken by regulators or legislators could limit PNM’s supply of water, and PNM’s and PNMR’s business may be adversely impacted. Although PNM has been able to maintain adequate access to water through supplemental contracts and voluntary shortage sharing agreements with tribes and other water users in the San Juan Basin, PNM cannot be certain that it will be able to do so in the future. The inability to raise capital could limit PNMR’s ability to execute its growth strategy and finance its capital requirements, which could adversely affect PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations, which could include capital requirements for energy infrastructure investments and funding new projects. If PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are not able to access capital at competitive rates, or at all, PNMR’s ability to implement its growth strategy and its ability to finance capital requirements, if needed, will be limited. Market disruptions or any downgrade of PNMR’s or its operating subsidiaries’ credit rating may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect their ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. These disruptions could include: · an economic downturn, · changes in capital market conditions generally, · the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, · increased market prices for electricity and gas, · terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on facilities of PNMR’s operating subsidiaries or those of unrelated energy companies, and · deterioration in the overall health of the utility industry. A significant reduction in the credit ratings of PNMR or its operating subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot be sure that any of their current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Any downgrade: · could increase borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results, · could require payment of a higher interest rate in future financings and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease, · could increase borrowing costs under certain of existing credit facilities, · could also require the provision of additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties, · could limit access to or increase the cost of access to the commercial paper market, and · below investment grade credit ratings would also require approvals from the NMPRC for new wholesale plant projects and for continuing to participate in wholesale plant projects of more than a certain dollar value and under certain conditions. On January 20, 2006, S&P revised PNMR’s outlook from stable to negative and downgraded the commercial paper of PNMR and PNM from A-2 to A-3, citing concerns about reduced plant availability at PVNGS, the higher cost of replacement power due to high natural gas prices and the lack of a fuel adjustment clause that would permit PNM to pass these costs to customers. The ratings action by S&P has increased short-term borrowing costs for PNMR and PNM and could increase long-term borrowing costs for PNMR and PNM. A-20 The ratings from rating agencies reflect only the views of such rating agencies and are not recommendations to buy, to sell or to hold securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Any downgrade or withdrawal of the current ratings of PNMR, PNM or TNMP may have an adverse effect on the market price of their outstanding debt. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed estimates by PNMR and its operating subsidiaries, which could adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot predict how they would be affected if existing environmental laws and regulations were revised, or if new environmental laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment were adopted, including possible future requirements to address concerns about global climate change, but any such changes could increase their financing requirements or otherwise adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity, unless increased environmental costs are recovered in customer rates. Revised or additional environmental laws and regulations could also result in additional operating restrictions on their facilities or increased compliance costs that may not be fully recoverable in rates, thereby reducing net income. In addition, PNM or TNMP may be designated as a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond PNM’s or TNMP’s control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. PNMR’s business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected if PNMR and its operating subsidiaries do not successfully compete for wholesale customers and generation plant acquisition opportunities. Wholesale plants will be exposed to price risk to the extent they must compete for the sale of energy and capacity. PNMR’s unregulated strategy is focused on some of the nation’s growing power markets. As a result of the changing regulatory environment and the relatively low barriers to entry (which include, in addition to open access transmission service, relatively low construction costs for new generating facilities), PNMR expects competition to steadily increase. This increased competition could affect the EnergyCo joint venture, load forecasts, acquisition opportunities and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Since PNM’s sales in the wholesale electric market accounted for approximately 55% of total MWh sales in 2006, the impact on PNMR’s and PNM’s financial results could be material if PNMR does not successfully compete for wholesale customers and generation plant acquisition opportunities. The effect on results of operations and financial position could vary depending on the extent to which: · PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are able to acquire additional generation to compete in the wholesale market, · new opportunities are created for the expansion of wholesale load, and · current wholesale customers elect to purchase from other suppliers after existing contracts expire. As of December 31, 2006, PNM’s long-term contracts to supply power ranged from 1 to 14 year terms with an average term of 6 years. PNM’s ability to renew these contracts at terms comparable to those currently in place is dependent upon prevailing market conditions at the time of negotiations. To the extent electric capacity generated by wholesale plants is not under contract to be sold, the business, results of operations and financial position of PNMR and PNM will generally depend on the prices that can be obtained for energy and capacity in New Mexico, in Texas and in adjacent markets. A-21 PNMR and its operating subsidiaries may not be able to mitigate fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in earnings. The business and operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts that must be paid for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in owned generation plants. Prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose PNMR and its operating subsidiaries to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: · prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas, nuclear fuel and other fuels used in the generation plants of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities, · prevailing market conditions in the general wholesale electricity market, · liquidity in the commodity markets, · the rate of growth in electricity as a result of population changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs, · weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies, · changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on for purchased power and fuel, · the actions of external parties, such as the FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in the United States’ western energy markets, · changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations, · union and labor relations, and · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on derivatives such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options and swaps to manage these risks. They attempt to manage their exposure from these activities through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries cannot be certain that these strategies will be successful in managing pricing risk, or that they will not result in net liabilities as a result of future volatility in these markets. Impairments of tangible long-lived assets of PNMR, PNM and TNMP could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP evaluate their tangible long-lived assets and amortizing intangible assets for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist pursuant to SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”) and SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”). These potential impairment triggers could include changing customer purchase commitments and market share; fluctuating market prices resulting from weather patterns; changing fuel costs; industry deregulation and other economic and market conditions and trends. PNMR, PNM and TNMP determined that no triggering events occurred during 2006 for their tangible long-lived assets and amortizing intangible assets. PNM will continue to analyze all tangible long-lived assets and amortizing intangible assets for impairment on an on-going basis in accordance with SFAS 144 and SFAS 142. Impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of PNMR and its subsidiaries could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Due to the significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets recorded by PNMR and its subsidiaries, the impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. A-22 TNP As of December 31, 2006, PNMR had $495.7 million of goodwill composed of $363.8 million of goodwill at TNMP and $131.9 million of goodwill at First Choice , as a result of the acquisition of TNP in 2005. As required by SFAS 142, PNMR and TNMP evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and between annual tests whenever indicators of impairment exist. Impairment of goodwill exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. PNMR also recorded $79.3 million of other intangible assets as a result of its acquisition of TNP. Of the $79.3 million of acquired intangible assets, $68.8 million was assigned to the trade name “First Choice.” The trade name has an indefinite useful life and therefore, no amortization will be recognized until its useful life is determined to be no longer indefinite. As required by SFAS 142, PNMR evaluates the First Choice trade name for impairment annually and between annual tests whenever indicators of impairment exist. PNMR evaluates the useful life of the First Choice trade name each reporting period as required by SFAS 142 to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. The remaining $10.5 million of acquired intangible assets was assigned to the First Choice customer list. The useful life of the customer list is estimated to be eight years and, beginning in 2005, is being amortized on a straight-line basis over eight years. As required by SFAS 144, PNMR evaluates the First Choice customer list for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. PNMR evaluates the remaining useful life of the First Choice customer list each reporting period as required by SFAS 144 to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support the remaining amortization period. The TNP acquisition settlement in New Mexico required the integration of TNMP’s New Mexico assets into PNM. TNMP’s New Mexico assets were transferred to PNM effective January 1, 2007, including the portion of goodwill related to TNMP’s New Mexico assets. As a result, PNM will record goodwill that will be subject to impairment testing pursuant to SFAS 142. Twin Oaks The purchase in 2006 of the Twin Oaks plant included the development rights for a possible 600-megawatt expansion of the plant valued at $25 million, which PNMR has classified as an intangible asset. The rights have an indefinite life. Therefore no amortization is recognized, but the asset is evaluated for impairment each reporting period. Provisions of PNMR’s organizational documents, as well as several other statutory and regulatory factors, will limit another party’s ability to acquire PNMR and could deprive PNMR’s shareholders of the opportunity to gain a takeover premium for shares of PNMR’s common stock. PNMR’s restated articles of incorporation and by-laws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of discouraging persons from acquiring large blocks of PNMR’s common stock or delaying or preventing a change in control of PNMR. The material provisions that may have such an effect include: · authorization for the PNMR Board to issue PNMR’s preferred stock in series and to fix rights and preferences of the series (including, among other things, whether, and to what extent, the shares of any series will have voting rights, subject to certain limitations, and the extent of the preferences of the shares of any series with respect to dividends and other matters), · advance notice procedures with respect to any proposal other than those adopted or recommended by PNMR’s Board, and · provisions specifying that only a majority of the Board, the chairman of the Board, the president or holders of not less than one-tenth of all of PNMR's shares entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the New Mexico Public Utility Act, NMPRC approval is required for certain transactions that may result in PNMR’s change in control or exercise of control. Certain acquisitions of PNMR’s outstanding voting securities would also require FERC approval under the FERC's authority resulting from the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the repeal of the PUHCA of 2005. See Note 17 for further discussion. A-23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. A-24 ITEM 