ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The business and financial results of PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below and in Part II. Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.” PNMR may fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, including the TNP acquisition and the proposed acquisition of Twin Oaks, into its other businesses or otherwise fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of pending and future acquisitions. As part of PNMR’s growth strategy, PNMR is pursuing, and intends to continue to pursue, a disciplined acquisition strategy. While PNMR expects to identify potential synergies, cost savings, and growth opportunities prior to the acquisition and integration of acquired companies or assets, PNMR may not be able to achieve these anticipated benefits due to, among other things: · delays or difficulties in completing the integration of acquired companies or assets, · higher than expected costs or a need to allocate resources to manage unexpected operating difficulties, · diversion of the attention and resources of its management, · reliance on inaccurate assumptions in evaluating the expected benefits of a given acquisition, · inability to retain key employees or key customers of acquired companies, and · assumption of liabilities unrecognized in the due diligence process. Acquisition of TNP in 2005 PNMR cannot assure that it will successfully integrate TNP with PNMR‘s current businesses. The integration of TNP with PNMR‘s other businesses presents significant challenges and, as a result, PNMR may not be able to operate the combined company as effectively as expected. PNMR may also fail to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition as quickly or as anticipated or may not be able to achieve those benefits at all. Even if PNMR manages to realize greater than anticipated benefits from the integration of TNP into its business, PNMR’s regulated subsidiaries may be required by their regulators to return these benefits to ratepayers. While the acquisition of TNP was accretive to earnings and cash flow in 2005, the 2005 results were based on a number of factors, which may not continue in the future. At FCP, the gross margin increased, which was driven mainly by natural gas hedging, lower transmission costs and gains from capacity auction participation. However, at TNMP, gross margin decreased in 2005 compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in revenues due to a rate reduction effective May 1, 2005 that was part of the PUCT’s approval of the TNP acquisition. The ultimate success of the acquisition is also dependent upon PNMR’s ability to achieve operational benefits from operating the companies as a unified operation and the management of customer retention at First Choice and TNMP. Proposed Acquisition of Twin Oaks in 2006 On January 14, 2006, Altura, a newly formed indirect wholly owned subsidiary of PNMR, entered into an agreement with Sempra to purchase Twin Oaks in an acquisition of assets for $480.0 million in cash. The Twin Oaks facility is a 305 MW coal-fired power plant located 150 miles south of Dallas, Texas. The transaction is expected to close no earlier than April 17, 2006. The Twin Oaks purchase agreement also includes the development rights for a possible 600 MW expansion of the plant. The necessary permits are expected to be granted in 2007. An additional $2.5 million payment will be made to Sempra upon the issuance of an air permit for the expansion and an additional $2.5 million will be paid when Altura begins construction of the expansion. A-15 The proposed acquisition of Twin Oaks is the latest step in implementing PNMR’s strategy of expanding its merchant generation fleet to serve a growing wholesale market in the Southwest, including the ERCOT market in Texas. The Twin Oaks plant provides PNMR with the opportunity for lower-cost coal generation in an ERCOT market that is driven by natural gas. PNMR and Sempra are also parties to the purchase agreement and have agreed to guarantee certain obligations of their respective subsidiaries relating to the acquisition. Consequently, PNMR is at risk that Altura will not be able to meet its obligations that are guaranteed by PNMR. Under the purchase agreement, substantially all of the assets and contractual commitments relating to Twin Oaks are to be transferred to Altura upon closing, including fuel supply and power purchase and sale agreements. For the next five years the majority of the plant’s output will be sold via two existing contracts. All of the plant’s capacity is committed through September 2007. After expiration, the first contract is expected to be replaced with another contract for approximately 75% of the plant’s capacity through 2010. Although PNMR plans to market the excess energy and capacity within ERCOT, PNMR is at risk that its marketing efforts may not be successful due to a number of factors, including competition, market prices and demand for electricity and economic conditions. PNMR has arranged for bridge financing to close the transaction. It is expected that the permanent financing will come from the issuance of debt and equity structured to maintain PNMR’s investment grade rating. However, PNMR is at risk that it will be unable to obtain financing for the acquisition at a reasonable cost or terms that will permit PNMR to maintain its investment grade rating, due to conditions in the capital markets or PNMR’s financial condition. While the acquisition of the Twin Oaks facility is expected to be neutral to slightly accretive to earnings in the first 18 months of ownership, approximately 15% to 20% of earnings during this period will include the amortization of certain contracts, which will be recorded at fair market value under purchase accounting and amortized into income. Although the acquisition of Twin Oaks is expected to be fully accretive to earnings after the first 18 months and to be neutral to cash flow in 2006 and accretive thereafter, PNMR cannot assure that it will be able to achieve the expected earnings and cash flow results from the Twin Oaks plant. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to complex government regulation, which may have a negative impact on their business, financial position and results of operations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are subject to comprehensive regulation by several federal, state and local regulatory agencies, which significantly influences their operating environment and may affect their ability to recover costs from utility customers. In particular, the NMPRC, the PUCT, the FERC, the NRC, the EPA, ERCOT, the NMED and the TCEQ regulate many aspects of their utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, conditions of service, the issuance of securities, and the rates that the regulated entities can charge customers. PNMR, PNM and TNMP are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from these agencies to operate their business. The rates that PNM and TNMP are allowed to charge for their retail services significantly influence PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Due to pending federal regulatory reforms, the public utility industry continues to undergo change. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted into law in August 2005, effective in February 2006. The legislation covers many areas, including the items set forth in Note 17 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and elsewhere in this report. Implementation of various portions of the law requires the issuance of rules by the FERC. The FERC has adopted final rules implementing various provisions of the Energy Policy Act including rules pertaining to repeal of PUHCA of 1935 and implementation of PUHCA of 2005, the FERC’s expanded mergers and acquisitions approval authority and prohibition of energy market manipulation. FERC has also issued a number of other proposed rules that are pending, including rules pertaining to preventing undue discrimination in transmission services and electric reliability standards. PNMR will continue to monitor, and participate in as appropriate, the FERC and other proceedings involving implementation of the Energy Policy Act, in order to assess the implications of the new law and rules on its operations. PNMR and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the impact on their business and operating results from the future regulatory activities of any agency that regulates them or from the implementation of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations may require PNMR and its regulated subsidiaries to incur additional expenses or change business operations, and therefore may have an adverse impact on PNMR’s and those subsidiaries’ results of operations. A-16 PNM's retail electric rate reduction and retail electric rate freeze, and the New Mexico settlement relating to the TNP acquisition, could adversely affect its profit margin if it does not control costs. Pursuant to an electric retail rate freeze stipulation, PNM decreased its retail electric rates by 6.5% as follows: · a 4% reduction effective September 1, 2003, · an additional 2.5% reduction effective September 1, 2005, and · maintain these reduced retail electric rates through December 31, 2007. The TNP acquisition settlement in New Mexico established how synergy savings would be allocated among PNM’s gas and electric customers. The settlement provides that: · PNM’s 413,000 electric customers will receive rate credits totaling $4.6 million or nearly $1.84 million annually over a 30-month period beginning January 2008. · PNM’s 471,000 gas customers will receive $4.3 million in rate credits over five years, or $860,000 annually, beginning June 6, 2005. PNM's costs, however, are not frozen. Thus, PNM's ability to maintain its profit margins depends upon increased demand for electricity and PNM's efforts to control costs incurred in supplying that electricity, including, in particular, its coal costs. PNM does not have the benefit of a fuel adjustment clause for its retail electric operations that would allow it to recover increased fuel and purchased power costs from customers. Therefore, to the extent that fuel and power prices increase, it is exposed to changes in fuel and power prices to the extent fuel for its electric generating facilities and power must be purchased on the open market in order for it to serve its retail electric customers. If PNM cannot control other operating expenses, the retail electric rate freeze may decrease PNM's profit margin. The retail electric rate freeze will also affect PNM's ability to earn a return or recover from its customers costs associated with investments in generation, transmission and distribution facilities since it will not be able to increase retail electric rates to recover those costs until at least after the end of the rate freeze. PNMR and PNM are not able to predict what rate treatment PNM will receive following the expiration of the retail electric rate freeze in New Mexico. Some of the factors that influence rates are largely outside their control. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and/or regulatory pressures, PNM may have to agree to further rate freezes, rate refunds or rate reductions, any or all of which could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s and PNM’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The impact from the TNP acquisition settlements could adversely affect TNMP’s profit margin if TNMP does not control costs. The TNP acquisition settlements for TNMP in Texas and New Mexico provide for the following: · a two-year electric rate freeze that includes a $13.0 million annual rate reduction in TNMP's retail delivery rates effective May 1, 2005, · a $6.0 million synergy savings credit (whether or not these savings are actually achieved) amortized over 24 months effective after the closing of the transaction, · a three-phase rate reduction totaling 15%, beginning January 2006 and ending December 2010, to TNMP’s electric customers in southern New Mexico; the rate reduction, which includes TNMP’s annual synergy-savings allocation, will lower TNMP electric rates by $9.6 million in the first year, and · maintain PNM as the power supplier for TNMP’s New Mexico needs through 2010. A-17 In addition, as part of the New Mexico settlement relating to the TNP acquisition, TNMP's current fuel and purchased power adjustment clauses will be eliminated no later than March 31, 2006. Also, the New Mexico settlement requires the integration of TNMP’s New Mexico assets into PNM effective January 1, 2007. The companies, however, will maintain separate rates, at a minimum, through 2010. PNMR and TNMP are not able to predict what rate treatment TNMP will receive following the expiration of the retail electric rate provisions in New Mexico. Some of the factors that influence rates are largely outside their control. In response to competitive, economic, political, legislative and/or regulatory pressures, TNMP may have to agree to further rate freezes, rate refunds or rate reductions, any or all of which could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s and TNMP’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. The ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers and its ability to mitigate the fluctuation in costs of energy supply could have a significant adverse effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. As a result of the acquisition of TNP, PNMR is exposed to competition in the unregulated Texas retail electricity market through First Choice, which serves customers at price-to-beat rates and customers at competitive rates. In order to compete effectively in the Texas retail electricity market, First Choice must be able to attract and retain customers on the basis of cost and service, while managing the cost of its energy supply. The ability of First Choice to compete successfully in the Texas market could have a significant effect on PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. There are inherent risks in the operation of nuclear facilities, such as environmental, health and financial risks and the risk of terrorist attack. PNM has a 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS, with portions of its interests in Units 1 and 2 held under leases. PVNGS is subject to environmental, health and financial risks such as the ability to dispose of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the operation of these facilities and the costs of securing the facilities against possible terrorist attacks and unscheduled outages due to equipment and other problems. PNM maintains nuclear decommissioning trust funds and external insurance coverage to minimize its financial exposure to some of these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance coverage. Although the decommissioning trust funds are designed to provide adequate funds for decommissioning at the end of the expected life of the PVNGS units, there is the risk of insufficient decommissioning trust funds in the event of early decommissioning of the units. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur at PVNGS, it could materially and adversely affect PNM’s and PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. PNMR’s and its electric subsidiaries’ financial performance may be adversely affected if their power plants and transmission and distribution system are not successfully operated. General PNMR’s and its electric subsidiaries’ financial performance depends on the successful operation of their generation, transmission and distribution assets. Unscheduled or longer than expected maintenance outages, other performance problems with the electric generation assets, severe weather conditions, accidents and other catastrophic events, disruptions in the delivery of fuel and other factors could reduce its excess generation capacity and therefore limit the electric subsidiaries’ ability to opportunistically sell excess power in the wholesale market. Diminished generation capacity could also result in the aggregate net open forward electric sales position being larger than forecasted generation capacity. If this were to occur, purchases of electricity in the wholesale market would be required under contracts priced at the time of execution or, if in the spot market, at the then-current market price. There can be no assurance that sufficient electricity would be available at reasonable prices, or at all, if such a A-18 situation were to occur. Failures of transmission or distribution facilities may also cause interruptions in the services the electric subsidiaries provide. These potential generation, distribution and transmission problems, and any potentially related service interruptions, could result in lost revenues and additional costs. PVNGS During 2005, PVNGS had the lowest capacity factor (measured against maximum dependable capacity) that the plant has had since 1994. The equivalent availability for PVNGS was 76.0% for 2005. This reflects bottom quartile performance relative to the 103 operating reactors in the United States. There were nine unscheduled outages during 2005 that had a variety of causes. In 2004, the NRC determined that there had been a safety concern at PVNGS related to the safety injection systems for the three PVNGS units. This led to a "yellow" finding and a $50,000 civil penalty under the NRC’s reactor oversight process. A "yellow" finding places a unit in the "degraded safety cornerstone" column of the NRC’s performance matrix, which results in an enhanced NRC inspection regimen. During 2005, the NRC completed its enhanced inspection. The "yellow" finding remains unresolved. APS has encountered tube cracking in the steam generators and has taken, and will continue to take, remedial actions that it believes have slowed the rate of tube degradation. The PVNGS Unit 2 steam generators were replaced in 2003, and the replacement of PVNGS Unit 1 steam generators was completed in December 2005. Installation of the PVNGS Unit 3 steam generators should be completed by December 2007. APS has been operating PVNGS Unit 1 at reduced power levels since December 25, 2005 due to a vibration in the PVNGS Unit 1 shutdown cooling lines. As a result, PNM is receiving approximately 24 MW of power from PVNGS Unit 1 based on its 10.2% undivided interest in PVNGS. Implementation of a potential solution preliminarily scheduled by APS for February 2006 was canceled after comprehensive analysis concluded that the desired improvement likely would not have been achieved. APS had informed PNM that it was in the process of formulating other potential remedies to address the issue and that it was scheduling another attempt to remedy this issue sometime in April 2006. APS has more recently informed PNM that the preferred solution will require Unit 1 to undergo an outage of approximately five weeks in order to effect the necessary modifications to Unit 1 and that it plans to begin this outage in the June 2006 timeframe. In addition, an outage of approximately one week for preparatory work will begin in mid-March 2006. This preferred solution was initially planned for installation in the spring of 2007. The operation of PVNGS not only affects PNM’s ability to make off-system sales, but can also cause PNM to purchase power to serve its retail electric customers. Based on current forward market energy prices, PNM estimates that operation of PVNGS Unit 1 at the reduced power level could result in a reduction in consolidated gross margin, or operating revenues minus cost of energy sold, of $3.0 million to $4.0 million per month before income taxes. However, PNM is taking steps to mitigate the impact on consolidated gross margin while PVNGS Unit 1 operates at the reduced power level. The financial performance of PNMR and PNM may be adversely affected if PVNGS Unit 1 cannot be operated at a satisfactory level or if the NRC imposes restrictions on operation of the plant or any of the three units at PVNGS. The operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are subject to risks beyond their control that may reduce their revenues. The revenues of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are affected by the demand for electricity and natural gas. That demand can vary greatly based upon: · weather conditions, including hurricanes, seasonality and temperature extremes, · fluctuations in economic activity and growth in PNMR’s service area and the western region of the United States, · the extent of additional energy available from current or new competitors, and · the ability of First Choice to attract and retain customers. A-19 Weather conditions will impact the revenues that PNMR and its operating subsidiaries obtain from electric retail and wholesale sales. Temperature extremes, especially for prolonged periods, can dramatically increase the demand for electricity, as opposed to the effect of more moderate temperatures. Temperature extremes inside the subsidiary’s service territory reduce the amount of power available to sell on the wholesale market. Drought conditions in New Mexico generally, and especially in the Four Corners region, in which SJGS and the Four Corners Generating Station are located, may affect the water supply for PNM’s generating plants. If adequate precipitation is not received in the watershed that supplies the Four Corners region, PNM may have to decrease generation at these plants, which would reduce PNM’s ability to sell excess power on the wholesale market and reduce its revenues. If the drought conditions continue or regulators or legislators take action to limit PNM’s supply of water, PNM’s and PNMR’s business may be adversely impacted. Although PNM has been able to maintain adequate access to water through supplemental contracts and voluntary shortage sharing agreements with tribes and other water users in the San Juan Basin, PNM cannot be certain that it will be able to do so in the future. The inability to raise capital could limit PNMR’s ability to execute its growth strategy and finance its capital requirements, which could adversely affect PNMR’s business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for any capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from operations, which could include capital requirements for energy infrastructure investments and funding new projects. If PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are not able to access capital at competitive rates or at all, PNMR’s ability to implement its growth strategy and its ability to finance capital requirements, if needed, will be limited. Market disruptions or any downgrade of PNMR’s or its operating subsidiaries’ credit rating may increase the cost of borrowing or adversely affect their ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. These disruptions could include: · an economic downturn, · changes in capital market conditions generally, · the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, · increased market prices for electricity and gas, · terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on facilities of PNMR’s operating subsidiaries or those of unrelated energy companies, and · deterioration in the overall health of the utility industry. A significant reduction in the credit ratings of PNMR or its operating subsidiaries could materially and adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot be sure that any of their current ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency. Any downgrade: · could increase borrowing costs, which would diminish financial results, · could require payment of a higher interest rate in future financings and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease, · could increase borrowing costs under certain of existing credit facilities, · could also require the provision of additional support in the form of letters of credit or cash or other collateral to various counterparties, · could limit access to or increase the cost of access to the commercial paper market, and · below investment grade credit ratings would also require approvals from the NMPRC for new wholesale plant projects and for continuing to participate in wholesale plant projects of more than a certain dollar value and under certain conditions. A-20 On January 20, 2006, S&P revised PNMR’s outlook from stable to negative and downgraded the commercial paper of PNMR and PNM from A-2 to A-3, citing concerns about reduced plant availability at PVNGS, the higher cost of replacement power due to high natural gas prices and the lack of a fuel adjustment clause that would permit PNM to pass these costs to customers. The ratings action by S&P has increased short-term borrowing costs for PNMR and PNM and could increase long-term borrowing costs for PNMR and PNM. The ratings from rating agencies reflect only the views of such rating agencies and are not recommendations to buy, to sell or to hold our securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Any downgrade or withdrawal of PNMR’s, PNM’s or TNMP’s current ratings may have an adverse effect on the market price of their outstanding debt. Costs of environmental compliance, liabilities and litigation could exceed estimates by PNMR’s and its operating subsidiaries, which could adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs, including remediation and containment expenses and monitoring obligations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot predict how they would be affected if existing environmental laws and regulations were revised, or if new environmental laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment were adopted, but any such changes could increase their financing requirements or otherwise adversely affect their business, financial position, results of operations and liquidity, unless increased environmental costs are recovered in customer rates. Revised or additional laws and regulations could also result in additional operating restrictions on their facilities or increased compliance costs that may not be fully recoverable in rates, thereby reducing net income. For example, any future changes in the interpretation of the Clean Air Act’s new source review provisions could potentially increase operating and maintenance costs substantially. Similarly, in March 2005, the EPA adopted the Clear Air Act Mercury Rule, which is intended to reduce mercury emissions from coal-fired generation plants. PNMR and PNM cannot be certain how this rule will affect them. In addition, PNM or TNMP may be designated as a responsible party for environmental clean up at a site identified by a regulatory body. PNMR, PNM and TNMP cannot predict with certainty the amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters because of the difficulty of estimating clean-up and compliance costs, and the possibility that changes will be made to the current environmental laws and regulations. There is also uncertainty in quantifying liabilities under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties. Failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond PNM’s or TNMP’s control, may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. PNMR’s business, results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected if PNMR and its operating subsidiaries do not successfully compete for wholesale customers and generation plant acquisition opportunities. Wholesale plants will be exposed to price risk to the extent they must compete for the sale of energy and capacity. As a result of the changing regulatory environment and the relatively low barriers to entry (which include, in addition to open access transmission service, relatively low construction costs for new generating facilities), PNMR expects competition to steadily increase. This increased competition could affect load forecasts, acquisition opportunities and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Since PNM’s sales in the wholesale electric market accounted for approximately 58% of total MWh sales in 2005, the impact of these changes on PNMR’s and PNM’s financial results could be material. The effect on results of operations and financial position could vary depending on the extent to which: · PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are able to acquire additional generation to compete in the wholesale market, · new opportunities are created for the expansion of wholesale load, and · current wholesale customers elect to purchase from other suppliers after existing contracts expire. A-21 As of December 31, 2005, PNM’s long-term contracts to supply power ranged from 1 to 14.5 year terms with an average term of 5.3 years. PNM’s ability to renew these contracts at terms comparable to those currently in place is dependent upon prevailing market conditions at the time of negotiations. To the extent electric capacity generated by wholesale plants is not under contract to be sold, the business, results of operations and financial position of PNMR and PNM will generally depend on the prices that can be obtained for energy and capacity in New Mexico, in Texas (if the proposed acquisition of Twin Oaks is completed) and in adjacent markets. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries may not be able to mitigate fuel and wholesale electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities or increased volatility in earnings. The business and operations of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries are subject to changes in purchased power prices and fuel costs that may cause increases in the amounts that must be paid for power supplies on the wholesale market and the cost of producing power in owned generation plants. Prices for electricity, fuel and natural gas may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and expose PNMR and its operating subsidiaries to significant commodity price risks. Among the factors that could affect market prices for electricity and fuel are: · prevailing market prices for coal, oil, natural gas and other fuels used in the generation plants of PNMR and its operating subsidiaries, including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such commodities, · prevailing market conditions in the general wholesale electricity market, · liquidity in the commodity markets, · the rate of growth in electricity as a result of population changes, regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs, · weather conditions impacting demand for electricity or availability of hydroelectric power or fuel supplies, · changes in the regulatory framework for the commodities markets that PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on for purchased power and fuel, · the actions of external parties, such as the FERC or independent system operators, that may impose price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility in the United States’ western energy markets, · changes in federal and state energy and environmental laws and regulations, · union and labor relations, and · natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries rely on derivatives such as forward contracts, futures contracts, options and swaps to manage these risks. They attempt to manage their exposure from these activities through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. PNMR and its operating subsidiaries cannot be certain that these strategies will be successful in managing pricing risk, or that they will not result in net liabilities as a result of future volatility in these markets. Impairments of tangible long-lived assets of PNMR, PNM and TNMP could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. PNMR, PNM and TNMP evaluate their tangible long-lived assets for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist pursuant to SFAS No. 144 “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS 144”). These potential impairment triggers could include changing customer purchase commitments and market share; fluctuating market prices resulting from weather patterns; changing fuel costs; industry deregulation and other economic and market conditions and trends. Except as described below, PNMR, PNM and TNMP determined that no triggering events occurred during the period for their tangible long-lived assets. A-22 PNM determined that as of December 31, 2005, its D-11 steam turbine, which is in a temporary storage facility in southern New Mexico, was impaired in the amount of approximately $15.0 million. The D-11 steam turbine was impaired since it is no longer being utilized in the Afton generation facility and has been designated as available for sale. PNM will continue to analyze all tangible long-lived assets for impairment on an on-going basis in accordance with SFAS 144. Impairments of goodwill and intangible assets of PNMR and its subsidiaries could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. As a result of the acquisition of TNP in 2005, PNMR recorded $499.2 million of goodwill composed of $456.1 million of goodwill at TNMP and $43.1 million of goodwill at FCP. As required by SFAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS 142”), PNMR and TNMP will evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and between annual tests whenever indicators of impairment exist. Impairment of goodwill exists when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. PNMR also recorded $79.3 million of other intangible assets as a result of its acquisition of TNP. Of the $79.3 million of acquired intangible assets, $68.8 million was assigned to the trade name “First Choice.” The trade name has an indefinite useful life and therefore, no amortization will be recognized until its useful life is determined to be no longer indefinite. As required by SFAS 142, PNMR evaluates the First Choice trade name for impairment annually and between annual tests whenever indicators of impairment exist. PNMR evaluates the useful life of the First Choice trade name each reporting period as required by SFAS 142 to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. The remaining $10.5 million of acquired intangible assets was assigned to the First Choice customer list. The useful life of the customer list is estimated to be eight years and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over eight years. As required by SFAS 144, PNMR evaluates the First Choice customer list for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. PNMR evaluates the remaining useful life of the First Choice customer list each reporting period as required by SFAS 144 to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support the remaining amortization period. Due to the significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets recorded by PNMR and its subsidiaries, the impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect their business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. Actual results could differ from estimates used to prepare PNMR’s, PNM’s and TNMP’s financial statements. In preparing the financial statements in accordance with GAAP, management must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures at the date of the financial statements and during the reporting period. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and actual results could differ from those estimates. For more information about these estimates and assumptions, see Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Critical Accounting Policies” and Footnote 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Provisions of PNMR’s organizational documents, as well as several other statutory and regulatory factors, will limit another party’s ability to acquire PNMR and could deprive PNMR’s shareholders of the opportunity to gain a takeover premium for shares of PNMR’s common stock. PNMR’s restated articles of incorporation and by-laws include a number of provisions that may have the effect of discouraging persons from acquiring large blocks of PNMR’s common stock or delaying or preventing a change in control of PNMR. The material provisions that may have such an effect include: · authorization for the PNMR Board to issue PNMR’s preferred stock in series and to fix rights and preferences of the series (including, among other things, whether, and to what extent, the shares of any series will have voting rights, subject to certain limitations, and the extent of the preferences of the shares of any series with respect to dividends and other matters), A-23 · advance notice procedures with respect to any proposal other than those adopted or recommended by PNMR’s Board, and · provisions specifying that only a majority of the Board, the chairman of the Board, the president or holders of not less than one-tenth of all of PNMR's shares entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. Under the New Mexico Public Utility Act, NMPRC approval is required for certain transactions that may result in PNMR’s change in control or exercise of control. Certain acquisitions of PNMR’s outstanding voting securities would also require FERC approval under the FERC's authority resulting from the Energy Policy Act and the repeal of PUHCA. See Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. A-24 ITEM 