D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our share price may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred losses in the past. We may incur losses in the near term, and we may continue to incur losses in the future. In 2007, our operating loss from continuing operations and net income was approximately $(7.6) million and $12.5 million, respectively. In 2006, our operating loss from continuing operations and net loss was approximately $(8.4) million and $(40.8) million, respectively. In 2005, our operating profit from continuing operations and net loss was approximately $1.9 million and $(12.6) million, respectively. We may continue to incur operating losses and incur net losses in the future. Continuing losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and on the value and market price of our ordinary shares. Adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry and in the telecommunications equipment market may decrease demand for our products and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems are used by telecom carriers and service providers. Some carriers and service providers using wireless broadband are emerging companies with unproven business models. Adverse market conditions in the last couple of years caused our customers and potential customers to be conservative in their spending, and this could continue in the future. The markets that we participate in may not grow as we expect or at all. While our goal is to increase our sales by expanding the number of carrier customers that we address, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in doing so. The number of carriers and service providers who are our potential customers is relatively small and may not grow because of the limited number of licenses granted in each country and the substantial comparative capital requirements involved in establishing networks. As a result, our revenues may decline and increase our losses. Our systems are also used in vertical market applications (such as surveillance, monitoring and connectivity) by private network operators such as government, municipalities and large enterprises. Our products are integrated in a complete solution, which provide an answer to specific application requirements. The demand for our systems in such vertical market applications could be less than expected and the alternative technologies may strongly compete against us. As a result, our revenues may decline and increase our losses. New markets we attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets. In addition, if we do not maintain or increase the share we expect of the wireless broadband equipment market, our business will suffer. The Personal Broadband market and any other new markets we attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets or may not evolve in a manner that will enable our products to achieve market acceptance. Mobile WiMAX technology targets fourth generation ("4G"), type of services and therefore directly competes with other technologies such as Long Term Evolution ("LTE"), and Ultra Mobile Broadband ("UMB"). WiMAX technology may not be adopted by communication operators as their chosen 4G technology. For example, WiMAX market acceptance may be hampered by competing technologies or intellectual property rights (IPR) disputes. 3 In addition, in order to maintain or increase the share we expect of the markets we participate in, we must: · continue to innovate and differentiate our technology position in designing, developing and manufacturing broadband wireless access products; · develop and cultivate additional sales channels, including original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) agreements, regional local partners or other strategic arrangements with leading manufacturers of access equipment to market our wireless broadband products to prospective customers, such as local exchange carriers, cellular operators, Internet and application service providers, municipalities and local telephone companies; · effectively establish and support relationships with customers, including local exchange carriers, Internet and application service providers, public fixed or mobile telephone service providers and private network operators; and · effectively develop and market our OPEN WiMAX strategy in our broadband mobile solution, together with our current and potential partners. Our efforts in these markets may not succeed. Intense competition in the markets for our products may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Many companies compete with us in the wireless broadband equipment market in which we sell our products. We expect that competition from large vendors as well as new market vendors will increase in the future, including both with respect to products that we currently offer and products that we intend to introduce in the future. As the market transitions toward standardization, it increasingly becomes more challenging for us to compete. In addition, some or all of the systems integrators and other strategic partners to which we sell our wireless broadband products could develop the capability to manufacture systems similar to our wireless broadband products. We expect our competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that may supplant or provide lower cost alternatives to our products or products with better performance. We are also facing additional and new competition from large telecommunications equipment vendors, such as Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco Systems (specifically after acquiring Navini Networks), Huawei Technologies, Motorola, NEC Corporation, Nokia Siemens Networks, Nortel Networks, Samsung and ZTE Corporation and we expect this competition to grow, especially with respect to the mobile WiMAX-based products. Tier One operators, such as Sprint Nextel, may prefer to purchase products from these large vendors. There has been a trend towards consolidation in the telecommunications equipment market. This trend may continue in the future and result in larger competitors with enhanced resources, financial and otherwise. This may intensify the competitive nature of the markets in which we operate. Furthermore, this consolidation process, such as the merger of Alcatel and Lucent, Cisco's acquisition of Navini and the merger of Nokia and Siemens limits and may further reduce the potential variety of our customers and partners. In addition, as the market grows, we may face competition from aggressive start-ups in different markets. We expect that we will also face competition from alternative wireline and wireless technologies including copper wires, fiber-optic cable, digital subscriber lines (“DSL”), cable modems, satellite, Wi-Fi and other broadband access technologies, such as long-term evolution (“LTE”) and Ultra Mobile Broadband ("UMB") technologies. We expect these competitors to continue to improve their technologies and products, which may cause us to lose some of our customers or prevent us from penetrating into new markets. Some of our existing and potential competitors, including large competitors arising from the continued consolidation in the telecommunications equipment market, have substantially greater resources, including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing, and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than we do. Increased competition, direct and indirect, has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, reductions of average selling prices, shorter product life cycles, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share and, consequently, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 4 We may not be able to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly, offer better performance than those of our competitors, or offer our customers payment or other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. In addition, we may not be able to offer our products as part of integrated systems or solutions to the same extent as our competitors. A failure to accomplish one or more of these objectives could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability, harming our financial condition and results of operations. Existing and potential industry standards may have an adverse affect on our competitiveness and market position, on our relations with our customers and on our revenues. We have developed and continue to develop our products with a view to compliance with existing standards and anticipated future standards. We expended, and intend to continue to expend, substantial resources in developing products and product features that are designed to conform to such standards. In addition, although we developed our products with a view to compliance with existing standards and anticipated compliance with future standards, we may not be able to introduce on a timely basis products that comply with industry standards. Since the WiMAX industry is currently at early stages, we are requested to invest significant resources in interoperability testing ("IOT") with other significant WiMAX manufacturers. The broad demand of manufacturers and operators for IOT, as well as the length of the IOT process and its success may have a significant impact on our relationships with our customers and on our revenues and expenses. Certain standards on which we base our products and technology - such as Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (“IEEE”) 802.16d-2004 and IEEE 802.16e-2005 - may not continue to be, or will not be, broadly adopted which could significantly limit our market opportunity and harm our business. In general, IEEE has expressed interest in collaborating with an international consortium to develop open access publishing mode. In addition, our focus on anticipated future standards, including the IEEE 802.16e-2005 certified standard, may lead to delays in introducing products designed for current standards and may have an adverse affect on our competitiveness and market position , on our relations with our customers and on our revenues. Our strategy of seeking to anticipate and comply with industry standards is subject to the following additional risks, among others: · the standards ultimately adopted by the industry may vary from those anticipated by us, causing our products (which were designed to meet anticipated standards) to fail to comply with established standards; · even if our products do comply with established standards, these standards are not mandatory and consumers may prefer to purchase products that do not comply with them or that comply with new or competing standards; · product standardization may have the effect of lowering barriers to entry in the markets in which we seek to sell our products, by diminishing product differentiation and causing competition to be based upon criteria such as the relative size and marketing skills of competitors in which we believe we have less of a competitive advantage than on the basis of product differentiation; · the market transition to product standardization could significantly delay the time we recognize revenue, shifting from the date of shipping of existing products to the date of achievement of product certification and fulfillment of all revenue recognition criteria; · standardization of product features may increase the number of competitive product offerings; 5 · our competitors may attempt to influence the adoption of standards that are not compatible with our products; and · standardization may also result in lower average selling prices. These risks, among others, may harm our sales and, consequently, our results of operations. Our products under development, including our IEEE 802.16e-2005 standards- compliant WiMAX-certified products, may not be available on our planned timetable. If customers refrain from buying our current products in order to wait for such products, our business will suffer. In the past, we experienced delays in orders for, and decreasing revenues from, both non-WiMAX products and products based on IEEE 802.16d standards. These delays were primarily due to the market transition to WiMAX certified products based on 802.16e Time Division Duplex (“TDD”) systems. We may continue to suffer from the market transition to IEEE 802.16e-2005 WiMAX certified products or to any other new WiMAX standards as customers continue to slow or cease their purchases of our commercially available products in order to wait for such products. In addition, we may also be subject to delays in development due to third party vendors, such as chip- vendors. If such products are not available on our planned timetable, and if our planned timetable lags behind our competitors, our customers may seek other providers to fulfill their wireless needs and our revenues could decrease. Some of our standards-compliant WiMAX ready products may not receive the certification that we expect, which may affect our future business. We rely on WiMAX technology. Products based on this technology may not receive certification in the time frame we expect, or at all, and may therefore not achieve the wide acceptance that we are seeking. Market changes could render this technology obsolete or subject to intense competition by alternative technologies. This may harm the sales of our standards compliant products, and consequently, our results of operations. Rapid technological change may have an adverse effect on the market acceptance for our products and may adversely affect our results of operations. The markets for our products and the technologies utilized in the industry in which we operate evolve rapidly. We rely on key technologies, including wireless local area network (“LAN”), wireless packet data, orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (“OFDM”), orthogonal frequency division multiple access (“OFDMA”), time division multiplexing, modem and radio technologies and other technologies, which we have been selling for several years, as well as WiMAX, multiple-input multiple-output communications (“MIMO”), Sub Channelization, beam forming, high power base station and other technologies. These technologies may be replaced with alternative technologies or may otherwise not achieve the wide acceptance that we are seeking. In particular, there is a substantial risk that the wireless broadband technologies underlying our products may not achieve market acceptance for use in access applications. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, market changes could render our products and technologies obsolete or subject them to intense competition by alternative products or technologies or by improvements in existing products or technologies. For example, the wireless broadband equipment market may stop growing as a result of the deployment of alternative technologies that are constantly improving, such as DSL, cable modem, fiber optic, coaxial cable, satellite systems, Wi-Fi technology, third or fourth generation cellular systems, or otherwise high-speed packet access (“HSPA”) and LTE technologies. New or enhanced products developed by other companies may be technologically superior to our products, may limit our target markets or may render our products obsolete, thus adversely affecting our results of operations. 6 The success of our technology depends on the following factors, among others: · acceptance of new and innovative technologies; · acceptance of standards for wireless broadband products; · timely availability and maturity of technology from technology suppliers and chip-vendors, such as Intel; · capacity to handle growing demands for faster transmission of increasing amounts of data and voice; · cost-effectiveness and performance compared to other fixed and other broadband wireless technologies; · reliability and security; · Acceptance of new WiMAX ecosystem; · suitability for a sufficient number of geographic regions; · the availability of sufficient frequencies and site locations for carriers to deploy and install products at commercially reasonable rates; and · safety and environmental concerns regarding wireless broadband transmissions. We may experience difficulties or delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products, which could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process. We are engaged in the development of very advanced technologies. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties due to delays in our development and/or due to delays by third party vendors that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or product enhancements and intensified competition. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products or inability to timely introduce to the market the appropriate products, all which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our recent collaboration with Accton Technology Corporation to form Accton Wireless Broadband (“AWB”) may not achieve our expectations to build our market position in the WiMAX Consumer Electronic Devices market. In January 2007, we began to collaborate with AWB to develop mass market cost-effective WiMAX consumer electronic devices. These devices are intended to complement our WiMAX offerings while facilitating the availability of WiMAX-based Personal Broadband services. These efforts may not result in the achievement of market acceptance or in the anticipation of product capabilities in a timely fashion or at all, and may prevent us from maintaining or expanding our position in the WiMAX market. Each of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We engaged and may continue to engage in mergers and acquisitions which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and dilute our shareholders’ equity. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any other prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Past and future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Past and future acquisitions by us could result, without limitation, in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our ordinary shares: · issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentages of ownership; 7 · large write-offs; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · contractual disputes; · risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations; and · potential effects on our cash reserve. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations. This may cause volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. Any fluctuations may cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. This would likely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: · the uneven pace of spectrum licensing to carriers and service providers; · adoption of new standards in our industry; · the size and timing of orders and the timing of large scale deployments; · the fulfillment of all revenue recognition criteria; · customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product features or price reductions; · the timing of our product introductions or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products; · the purchasing patterns of our customers and end users, as well as the budget cycles of customers for our products; · seasonality, including the relatively low level of general business activity in the first and third quarters of each year; · disruption in, or changes in the quality of, our sources of supply; · changes in the mix of products sold by us; 8 · the extensive marketing and organizational efforts that carriers are required to make to develop their subscriber base following the deployment of the network infrastructure, creating a gap between the time carriers purchase base stations for network infrastructure deployment and the time they purchase terminal stations for connection of subscribers to the network; · mergers or acquisitions, by us, our competitors and exiting and potential customers, if any; · one-time charges such as asset impairment and restructuring; · fluctuations in the exchange rate of the New Israeli Shekel (the “NIS”) against the dollar; · adoption of new financial accounting standards; and · general economic conditions, including the changing economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Our customers ordinarily require the delivery of products promptly after their orders are accepted. Our business historically does not have a significant backlog of accepted orders. Consequently, revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders received and accepted in that quarter. The deferral of the placing and acceptance of any large order from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the previous quarter. If revenues from our business in any quarter remain in the same level or decline in comparison to any previous quarter, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our operating expenses may increase significantly. If revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly or at a higher rate, or if we do not reduce our expenses in a timely manner in response to lower level or declining revenues, our results of operations for that quarter would be materially adversely affected. Because of the variations that we have experienced in our quarterly results of operations, we do not believe quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. Our products have long and unpredictable sales cycles. This could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. The sales cycle for most of our products encompasses significant technical evaluation and testing by each potential purchaser and a commitment of significant cash and other resources. The sales cycle can extend for as long as one year or more from initial contact with a carrier to receipt of a purchase order. This time frame may be extended due to, among other reasons, a carrier’s will to ensure that the systems works for a long period with increased number of subscribers’ coverage and capacity, a carrier’s need to obtain financing to purchase systems incorporating our products, the regulatory authorization of competition in local services, delays in the licensing of spectrum for these services and other regulatory hurdles. As a result of the length of this sales cycle, revenues from our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and fail to correspond with associated expenses, which are largely based on anticipated revenues. In addition, the delays inherent in the sales cycle of our products raise additional risks of customers canceling or changing their product plans. Our revenues will be adversely affected if a significant customer, or significant potential customer, reduces delays or cancels orders during the sales cycle of the products or chooses not to deploy networks incorporating our products. Any such fluctuation in revenue or cancellation of orders may have an adverse affect on our business and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We may fail to deliver “turn-key” solutions to our customers We are experiencing an increasing demand from existing and potential customers to provide a complete operational or “turn key” solution for their deployment needs where we are responsible for third-party deliverables. In addition, our new OPEN WiMAX strategy is designed to enable multiple telecom vendors to build a best-of-breed telecom access network in an open standard architecture. This new strategy enables communication service providers to choose the combination of vendors and partners that best fits their specific requirements in large telecom projects. These solutions require us to integrate subcontractors’ technologies, equipment and services. Relying on these third parties increases our responsibilities towards these customers. If we or any of our subcontractors fail to fully comply with the customers’ requirements, it may adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Our business is dependent upon the success of distributors who are under no obligation to purchase our products. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to independent distributors. These distributors then resell the products to others, who further resell those products to end users. Changes in the distribution and sales channels of our products, a loss of a major distributor or their loss of a major end-user, or our inability to establish effective distribution and sales channels for new products may impact our ability to sell our products and result in a loss of revenues. We are dependent upon the acceptance of our products by the market through our distributors’ efforts in marketing and sales. In some cases, arrangements with our distributors do not prevent them from selling competitive products and those arrangements do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. These distributors may not give a high priority to marketing and supporting our products. Changes in the financial condition, business or marketing strategies of these distributors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these changes could occur suddenly and rapidly. We are dependent upon the success of our direct sales efforts. Direct sales accounted for a total of approximately 41% of our sales in 2007, 40% of our sales in 2006 and 48% of our sales in 2005. Direct sales customers are not under any obligation to purchase our products. Some of these customers do not have long business histories and have encountered, and may continue to encounter, financial difficulty, including difficulty in obtaining credit to purchase our products. These customers typically purchase our products and solutions on a project-by-project basis, so that continuity of purchases by these customers is not assured. We do not necessarily retain sales personnel with carrier sales or project sales and management expertise. We may also face difficulties locating and retaining carrier customers who purchase directly from us. If we are unable to effectively continue our direct sales efforts of our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any such change could occur suddenly and rapidly. Our business depends in part on Original Equipment Manufacturers ("OEM") and systems integrators. The success of the sales of our wireless broadband products currently depends in part on existing relationships with OEMs or other system integrators. A portion of our systems is sold to and through telecommunications systems integrators for integration into their systems, rather than directly to carriers. The sale of our wireless broadband products depends in part on the OEMs’ and systems integrators’ active marketing and sales efforts as well as the quality of their integration efforts and post-sales support. Sales through the OEM and system integrator channels exposes this business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, or consolidation of some of these OEMs and system integrators or financial problems they might face, as well as the promotion of competing products or emphasis on alternative technologies by these OEMs and systems integrators turning them into competitors rather than our partners, all that may result in decline in the purchase of our products. In addition, our efforts to increase sales may suffer from the lack of brand visibility resulting from OEMs’ and systems integrators’ integration of these products into more comprehensive systems. If any of these risks materializes, we will need to develop alternative methods of marketing these products. Until we do so, sales of our wireless broadband products may decline. 10 If our days- sales-outstanding (“DSO”) increase and our revenues decrease, we may suffer from a cash shortfall. Recently we have experienced a shortening of our DSOs. However we expect that over time, our DSOs may increase and will range between 60 to 70 days. We may experience an increase in DSOs and a decline in revenues in the future, resulting in a cash shortfall. We may experience a decrease in our gross margin levels in the future, which may adversely affect our financial results. We believe that several market developments have caused, and may continue to cause, a decline in our gross margin. Such developments include the following: (i) increased competition in the regions in which we currently operate; (ii) the mix of our products, such as an increase in the volume of sale of lower-margin Customer Premise Equipment (“CPEs”); (iii) the entry of new, large operators into our markets; and (iv) changes in the market demand of some of our existing and potential products. We expect this decline in gross margin to continue over time. If our revenues do not increase and our operating expenses remain the same or increase, the decline in gross margin will have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our products are complex and may have errors or defects that are detected only after deployment in complex networks. Some of our products are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in complex networks. Although our products are tested during manufacturing and prior to deployment, our customers may discover errors after the products have been fully deployed. If we are unable to fix errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, including problems related to the site survey, radio planning and other problems that are not necessarily related to product functionality but to the associated services, we could experience: · costs associated with the remediation of any problems; · loss of or delay in revenues; · loss of customers; · failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; · diversion of deployment resources; · diversion of research and development resources to fix errors in the field; · increased service and warranty costs; · legal actions or demands for compensation by our customers; and · increased insurance costs. In addition, our products are often integrated with other network components. There may be incompatibilities between these components and our products that could significantly harm the service provider or its subscribers. Product problems in the field could require us to incur costs or divert resources to remedy the problems and subject us to liability for damages caused by the problems or delay in research and development projects because of the diversion of resources. These problems could also harm our reputation and competitive position in the industry. 11 We could be subject to warranty claims and product recalls, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. Products like ours sometimes contain undetected errors. These errors can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, we are dependent on unaffiliated suppliers for key components incorporated into our products. Defects in systems in which our products are deployed, whether resulting from faults in our products or products supplied by others, from faulty installation or from any other cause, may result in customer dissatisfaction. We are continually marketing several new products. The risk of errors in these new products, as in any new product, may be greater than the risk of errors in established products. The warranties for our products permit customers to return for repair, within a period ranging from 12 to 36 months of purchase, any defective products. Any failure of a system in which our products are deployed (whether or not these products are the cause), any product recall and any associated negative publicity could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our liability for product defects to product replacements, we may not be successful, and customers may sue us or claim liability for the defective products and for related claims arising therefrom. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention and resources, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We must be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demand of our customers. To ensure that we are able to meet customer demand for our products, we place orders with our subcontractors and suppliers based on our estimates of future sales. If actual sales differ materially from these estimates, our inventory levels may be too high, and inventory may become obsolete and/or over-stated on our balance sheet. This result would require us to write off inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2005, 2006 and 2007, we wrote off inventory in the amounts of $7.3 million, $9.5 million and $4.8 million, respectively. We depend on a number of manufacturing subcontractors with limited manufacturing capacity, and these manufacturers may be unable to fill our orders on a timely basis or with the quality specifications we require. As a result, we may not meet our customers’ demands, harming our business and results of operations. We currently depend on a number of contract manufacturers with limited manufacturing capacity to manufacture our products. The assembly of certain of our finished products, the manufacture of custom printed circuit boards utilized in electronic subassemblies and related services are also performed by these independent subcontractors. In addition, we rely on third-party “turn-key” manufacturers to manufacture certain sub-systems for our products. Reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to significant risks, including risks resulting from: · potential lack of manufacturing capacity; · limited control over delivery schedules; · quality assurance and control; · manufacturing yields and production costs; · voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship with us; · difficulty in, and timeliness of, substituting any of our contract manufacturers, which could take as long as six months or more; 12 · the economic and political conditions in their environment; and · their financial strength. If the operations of our contract manufacturers are halted, even temporarily, or if they are unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we may experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. In addition, we are required to place manufacturing orders well in advance of the time we expect to sell products, and this may result in us ordering greater or lesser amount of these products than required. In the event that we order the manufacture of a greater or lesser amount of these products, then we may be required to purchase the surplus products or to forego or delay the sale or delivery of the products that we did not order in advance. In either case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any of these risks could result in manufacturing delays or increases in manufacturing costs and expenses. For example, in 2005, 2006 and 2007, as a result of an over-estimation of our sales, we recorded in our balance sheet an allowance for irrevocable inventory purchase commitments in an aggregate amount of approximately $2.4 million, $2.6 million and $0.9 million, respectively. If we experience manufacturing delays, we could lose orders for our products and, as a result, lose customers. There may be an adverse affect on our profitability and consequently, on our results of operations if we incur increased costs. Our dependence on limited sources for key components of our products may lead to disruptions in the delivery and cost of our products, harming our business and results of operations. We currently obtain key components for our products from a limited number of suppliers, and in some instances from a single supplier. In addition, some of the components that we purchase from single suppliers are custom-made. We cannot assure that we will not experience disruptions in the delivery and cost of our products. We do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these suppliers. In addition, there is global demand for some electrical components that are used in our systems and that are supplied by relatively few suppliers. Our dependency presents the following potential risks: · delays in delivery or shortages of components, especially for custom-made components or components with long delivery lead times, could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellations of orders for our products; · suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect on the manufacturing costs for our products; · we may not be able to develop alternative sources for product components; · suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our products which may require us to modify our products and which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased product prices; · we may be required to hold more inventory for longer periods of time than we otherwise might in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance; and · due to the political situation in the Middle East, we may not be able to import necessary components. In the past, we experienced delays and shortages in the supply of components on more than one occasion. We may experience such delays in the future, harming our business and results of operations. 13 Regulation, by governments or other public bodies, may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our products that may be difficult and costly. Our business is premised on the availability of certain radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of each country and international treaties. Each country has different regulation and regulatory processes for wireless communications equipment and uses of radio frequencies. In addition, there are regulatory bodies that act to harmonize spectrum among countries, a factor that may influence our products that operate in a particular frequency. In the United States, our products are subject to the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations. The 700MHz spectrum was regulated during the beginning of 2008 by the FCC for Broadband Wireless applications; however the spectrum may not be technology exclusive and therefore if and to the extent it is allocated, it may be used for technologies other than WiMAX. In other countries, our products are subject to national or regional radio authority rules and regulations. Current FCC regulations permit license-free operation in FCC-certified bands in the radio spectrum in the United States. In other countries the situation varies as to the spectrum, if any, that may be used without a license and as to the permitted purposes of such use. Some of our products operate in license-free bands, while others operate in licensed bands. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to significant change, the results and timing of which are uncertain. In many countries the unavailability of radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications has inhibited the growth of these networks. The process of establishing new regulations for wireless broadband frequencies and allocating these frequencies to operators is complex and lengthy. The frequency licensing regulation process may suffer from delays that may postpone the commercial deployment of products that operate in licensed bands in any country that experiences this delay. Our current customers that commercially deploy our licensed band products have already been granted (when required) appropriate frequency licenses for their network operation. In some cases, the continued validity of these licenses may be conditional on the licensee complying with various conditions. Since WiMAX technologies evolve and enable new applications, such as mobile services, in countries that have already allocated spectrum, to other than WiMAX technology, governments may delay the granting of other spectrum, for mobile WiMAX or the usage of the spectrum for new application such as mobile WiMAX. Some countries still lag in the allocation of broadband wireless licenses, and this situation may continue in the allocation for spectrum for use by WiMAX mobile services. In addition to regulation of available frequencies, our products must conform to a variety of national and international regulations that require compliance with administrative and technical requirements as a condition to the operation of marketing or devices that emit radio frequency energy. These requirements were established, among other things, to avoid interference among users of radio frequencies and permit interconnection of equipment. The regulatory environment in which we sell our products subjects us to several risks, including the following: · Our customers may not be able to obtain sufficient frequencies for their planned uses of our wireless broadband products. · Failure by the regulatory authorities to allocate suitable and sufficient radio frequencies in a timely manner could deter potential customers from ordering our wireless broadband products. Also, licenses to use certain frequencies and other regulations may include terms that affect the desirability of using our products and the ability of our customers to grow. · If our products operate in the license-free bands, FCC rules and similar rules in other countries require operators of radio frequency devices, such as our products, to cease operation of a device if its operation causes interference with authorized users of the spectrum and to accept interference caused by other users. 14 · If the use of our products interferes with authorized users, or if users of our products experience interference from other users, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. · Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of available frequency spectrum, may significantly impact our operations by rendering our current products obsolete or non-compliant, or by restricting the applications and markets served by our products. · Regulatory changes and restrictions imposed due to environmental concerns, such as restrictions imposed on the location of outdoor antennas. · We may not be able to comply with all applicable regulations in each of the countries where our products are sold and we may need to modify our products to meet local regulations. · Spectrum allocation may specify a particular technology, such as 3G, LTE or WiMAX rather than enabling the spectrum owner to determine the technology. In addition, we are subject to export control laws and regulations with respect to all of our products and technology. We are subject to the risk that more stringent export control requirements could be imposed in the future on product classes that include products exported by us. We may also be subject to certain European directives like the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronical Equipment) and the ROHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment). Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of it by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depends and will continue to depend, to a large extent, on maintaining our proprietary rights and the rights that we currently license or will license in the future from third parties. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyright law and on confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have obtained several patents and have several patent applications pending that are associated with our products. We also have several trademark registrations associated with our name and some of our products. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Third-party patent applications filed earlier may block our patent applications or receive broader claim coverage. In addition, any patents issued to us, if issued at all, may not provide us with significant commercial protection. Third parties may also invalidate, circumvent, challenge or design around our patents or trade secrets, and our proprietary technology may otherwise become known or similar technology may be independently developed by competitors. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Failure to successfully protect our intellectual property from infringement may damage our ability to compete effectively and harm our results of operations. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. From time to time, the Company receives letters alleging it has infringed upon a patent, trademark or other proprietary right. As the Broadband Wireless Access market transitions toward standardization, we are more exposed to intellectual property litigation by third parties who claim to hold intellectual property rights related to such standards. In addition, based on the size and sophistication of our competitors and the history of rapid technological change in our industry, we anticipate that several competitors may have intellectual property rights that could relate to our products. Therefore, we may need to litigate to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Similarly, we may need to litigate to enforce or uphold the validity of our patent, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Other actions may involve ownership disputes over our intellectual property or the misappropriation of our trade secrets or proprietary technology. As a result of these actions, we may have to seek licenses to a third-party’s intellectual property rights, which may not be able to be successfully integrated into our products. These licenses may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, if we decide to litigate these claims, the litigation could be expensive and time consuming and could result in court orders preventing us from selling our then-current products or from operating our business. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no assurance that any such allegation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 If we are unable to maintain licenses to use certain technologies, we may not be able to develop and sell our products. We license certain technologies from others for use in connection with some of our technologies. The loss of these licenses could impair our ability to develop and market our products. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the licenses that we need, we may be unable to develop and market our products or processes, or we may need to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance characteristics or at greater cost. We cannot assure you that we can maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses, if we need them in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Also, some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures. This license and others like it pose a potential risk to products should they be inappropriately used. Our failure to manage growth effectively, both through our core products and through acquisitions, could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions in the past have significantly strained our management, operational and financial resources. Any future growth, including through mergers and acquisitions, may increase the strain on our management, operational and financial resources. If we do not succeed in managing future growth effectively, we may not be able to meet the demand, if any, for our products and we may lose sales or customers, harming our business, financial condition and results of operations We depend on key personnel. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of key personnel. We have experienced changes in several senior management personnel positions. We believe we were able to retain qualified replacements for such positions. However, there is no assurance that the new senior management personnel will provide the same or a better level of service to us. In addition, if one or more of our key technical, sales or senior management personnel terminates his or her employment and we are unable to retain a qualified replacement, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 16 Our ability to achieve our strategic, operational and financial goals depends on our ability to hire, train and retain qualified employees. Our success depends in large part on the continued contributions of our managerial, technical, and sales and marketing personnel. Substantially all of our employees are not obligated to remain employed by us for any specific period. The process of hiring, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations is a lengthy and expensive one. The market for the qualified personnel we require is very competitive. Our failure to hire and retain qualified employees could cause our revenues to decline and impair our ability to achieve our strategic, operational and financial goals. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company. As a result of the combination of our substantial holdings of cash, cash equivalents and securities and the decline in the market price of our ordinary shares from its historical highs, there is a risk that we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes. Based upon our market capitalization during 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and each year prior to 2001, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for any such year and, based upon our valuation of our assets as of the end of each quarter of 2002 and 2003 and an independent valuation of our assets as of the end of each quarter of 2001, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2001, 2002 or 2003 despite the relatively low market price of our ordinary shares during some of those years. We cannot assure you, however, that the United States Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or the courts would agree with our conclusion if they were to consider our situation. There is no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2008 or in subsequent years. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. taxpayers that own our ordinary shares at any time during a taxable year for which we were a PFIC would be subject to additional taxes upon certain distributions by us or upon gains recognized after a sale or disposition of our ordinary shares unless they appropriately elect to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” or to make a “mark to market election” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. This could also adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. For more information, see “Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations with Respect to the Acquisition, Ownership and Disposition of our Ordinary Shares—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status". We are exposed to additional costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. As a public company, we spend an increased amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes Oxley Act”), Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) regulations and the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (“NASDAQ”) Global Market rules. In connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time, and may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we comply with these requirements. Compliance may also make some of our activities more time-consuming and costly. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially and adversely affect our growth and financial results. The trading price of our ordinary shares is subject to volatility. The trading price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Since our initial public offering in March 2000, the sales prices of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market have ranged from a high of $53.12 to a low of $1.55. On December 31, 2007 and March 11, 2008, the closing sale price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Market was $9.50 and $6.25. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the future, based on the following factors, among others: · our prospects; 17 · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our sales and results of operations; · variations between our actual or anticipated results of operations and the published expectations of analysts; · general conditions in the wireless broadband products industry and general conditions in the telecommunications equipment industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and capital commitments; · introduction of technologies or product enhancements or new industry substitute standards that reduce the need for our products; · general economic and political conditions, particularly in the United States and in South America on our operations and results; and · departures of key personnel. We may be named defendants in securities class action lawsuits, or in other time- consuming and expensive litigation, that requires extensive management attention and resources and can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive. We were a defendant in a securities class action litigation that was recently dismissed as described in "Item 8—Financial Information—Legal Proceedings". We may be named in the future as a defendant in other securities class action lawsuits or in other time consuming and expensive litigation. Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of legal proceedings, and an unfavorable resolution of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating in international markets exposes us to risks, which could cause our sales to decline and our operations to suffer and which could expose us to various legal, business, political and economic risks. While we are headquartered in Israel, approximately 99% of our sales in recent years were generated elsewhere around the world. Our products are marketed internationally and we are, therefore, subject to certain risks associated with international sales, including, but not limited to the following: · trade restrictions, tariffs, and technology import and export license requirements, which may restrict our ability to export our products or make them less price-competitive; · adverse tax consequences; · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; · difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and staffing multiple offices and multiple research and development centers, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; · difficulties in enforcing contracts and implementing our accounts receivable function, which introduces revenue recognition, translation, proximity and cultural challenges; 18 · political and economic instability, particularly in markets such as Africa and Latin America and other emerging markets; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries where we may seek to expand our sales in the future; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · differing labor standards; · costs of localizing our products for foreign countries and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the implications on our financial statements. We may encounter significant difficulties with the sale of our products in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. Downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United States or other relevant regions or countries, such as the current global slowdown, or the public perception that these periods of economic slowdown or recession may occur, may reduce corporate and consumer spending and decrease the demand for our products. Furthermore, periods of economic slowdown or recession adversely affect the financial health of our subcontractors, partners, distributors and resellers. If general economic conditions fail to improve, or if they deteriorate, our revenues, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. A continuing decline in interest rates and the recent capital market developments will reduce our interest-income, may decrease the value of assets and adversely affect our profitability. Our investment portfolio consists of held-to-maturity marketable securities. Our investments are exposed to market risk due to fluctuation in interest rates, which may affect our interest income. Additionally, the performance of the capital markets affects the values of funds that are held in marketable securities. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below our projected return rates and will affect the fair market value of our investment portfolio. Due to recent credit crises and other market developments, including a series of rating agency downgrades the fair value of these marketable securities may decline which may adversely affect our profitability. There may be health and safety risks relating to wireless products. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from cellular telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. 19 Terrorist attacks, or the threat of such attacks, may negatively impact the global economy which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and may cause our share price to decline. The financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following terrorist attacks throughout the world have led to a worsening of the global economy. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers have become much more cautious in setting their capital expenditure budgets, thereby restricting their telecommunications procurement. Uncertainties related to the threat of terrorism have had a negative effect on global economy, causing businesses to continue slowing spending on telecommunications products and services and further lengthen already long sales cycles. Any escalation of these threats or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and the majority of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In the event of war, we and our Israeli subcontractors and suppliers may cease operations which may cause delays in the development, manufacturing or shipment of our products. Additionally, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with Israeli companies. Since October 2000, terrorist violence in Israel has increased significantly. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities along Israel's northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006, and extensive hostilities along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip since June 2007 when the Hamas effectively took control of the Gaza Strip. Further escalation has occurred during 2008. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. We could be adversely affected by the continuation or deterioration of Israel’s conflict with the Palestinians or from restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military reserve duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict, could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees related to military service or the absence for extended periods of military service of one or more of our key employees. A disruption could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently benefit from government programs and tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced. We have received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (“OCS”) for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the “Research and Development Law.” Pursuant to our current arrangement with the OCS, the OCS will finance up to 20% of our research and development expenses by reimbursing us for up to 50% of the approved expenses related to our generic research and development projects. In addition, we obtain other grants from the OCS to partially fund certain other research and development projects. These programs currently restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. The Research and Development Law and related regulations permit the OCS to approve the transfer of manufacturing rights outside Israel subject to an approval of the research committee and in exchange for payment of higher royalties, for royalty—bearing programs. Under the programs we need to comply with certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay additional amounts with respect to the grants received under these programs. The Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years, and these programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs and potential tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 21 In addition, we have been granted “Approved Enterprise” status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (the “Investment Law”) for our production facilities in Israel. Such status enables us to obtain certain tax relief for a definitive period upon compliance with the Investment Law regulations. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect which significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The amendment revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a “Privileged Enterprise” (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. However, the amendment provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval granted prior to December 31, 2004 will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to pay increased taxes in the future. We currently contemplate that a portion of our products will be manufactured outside of Israel. This could materially reduce the tax benefits to which we would otherwise be entitled. We cannot assure you that the Israeli tax authorities will not adversely modify the tax benefits that we could have enjoyed prior to these events. We are adversely affected by the devaluation of the dollar against the New Israeli Shekel and could be adversely affected by the rate of inflation in Israel. Substantially all of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our expenses, primarily salaries, building leases and related personnel expenses is incurred in NIS. We anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in Israeli shekels. As a result, inflation in Israel and/or the devaluation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the NIS has and may continue to have the effect of increasing the cost in dollars of these expenses; hence, our dollar-measured results of operations are and may continue to be adversely affected. In order to manage the risks imposed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, from time to time, we enter into currency forward contracts and put and call options to hedge some of our foreign currency exposure. We can provide no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be effective. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar may cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. Because exchange rates between the NIS and the dollar fluctuate continuously, exchange rate fluctuations have an impact on our profitability and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations. In 2007, the value of the dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by (9.0%), and the inflation rate in Israel was 3.4% and as such affected our results of operations in 2007. If this trend continues, it will continue to adversely affect our result of operations. Provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Our Articles of Association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, including a classified board of directors. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his or her ordinary shares for shares in a foreign corporation to taxation before disposition of the investment in the foreign corporation. 22 It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce U.S. judgments against our directors and officers in Israel or assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Our executive officers and some of the directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to obtain a judgment in the United Stated or collect or get an Israeli court to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. 23 ITEM 