Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s limited operating history makes evaluating its business and prospects difficult. The Company has recently begun to direct its efforts to commercialization of the WayCool thermal management cooling technology. The Company’s limited operating history in this industry and the unique nature of the WayCool technology makes evaluation of its future prospects very difficult. To date commercialization of the WayCool technology has not achieved profitability and the Company cannot be certain that it will sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. One should carefully consider the Company’s prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies in new and rapidly evolving technology. In May 2008, the Company acquired the assets of CUI, Inc., an Oregon based provider of electronic components for Original Equipment Manufacturers. It is the intention of management that the marketing, sales and distribution organization of CUI will be beneficial to the future of the WayCool technology. Notwithstanding that CUI has in recent years generated positive cash flow, there is no assurance that the synergy between the Company and CUI will result in a financial advantage for future operations. Because of the newness of this business combination future profitability is an uncertainty. The Company has all the risks of a new product developer in the technology business. The Company, as the owner of the WayCool thermal management cooling technology patents, assumed the responsibility for completing the development of the WayCool thermal management cooling technology and determining which products to commercialize utilizing the WayCool technology. Because this is a new technology, there is a risk that the technology, operation and development of products could be unsuccessful or that the Company will not be successful in marketing any products developed with the WayCool technology. Such failures would negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance the Company will achieve profitability. To date the Company has not received significant revenue from the WayCool thermal management cooling technology. The Company has focused its scope of operation to the commercialization of the innovative thermal cooling technology, WayCool. For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company had a net loss of $1,830,367. The Company will need to generate significant revenues from the WayCool product line and CUI product offering to offset current operational and development losses if the Company is to cover its current overhead expenses, including further development costs and marketing expenses. There is no assurance that the Company will achieve profitability. During 2007 and 2008, the Company funded its operations with net proceeds of approximately $8.9 million it received from financing activities. The Company believes that additional equity financing or debt will be necessary to fund its operations until revenue streams are sufficient to fund operations; however, the terms and timing of such additional equity or debt cannot be predicted. The Company cannot assure that its revenues will be sufficient to cover all operating and other expenses of the Company. If revenues are not sufficient to cover all operating and other expenses, the Company will require additional funding. 9 The Company will be dependent on third parties and certain relationships to fulfill its obligations. Because it is the intention of the Company to license the manufacturing and distribution of the WayCool technology to unrelated companies that are better equipped financially and technologically to design and manufacture WayCool technology end products, the Company will be heavily dependent on these third parties to adequately and promptly provide the end product. The Company will be dependent upon its ability to maintain the agreements with these designers and manufacturers and other providers of raw materials and components who provide the necessary elements to fulfill the Company’s product delivery obligations at the negotiated prices. The market for electronics is extremely competitive. Because the electronics industry is highly competitive, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to compete effectively. The Company is aware of several other companies that offer similar products, utilizing different technology than its WayCoolTM technology. Many of these competitors have been in the electronics business longer than the Company and have significantly greater assets and financial resources than are currently available to the Company. The Company expects competition to intensify as innovation in the electronics industry advances and as current competitors expand their market into the thermal management sector. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Competitive pressures could force the Company to reduce its prices and may make it more difficult for the Company to attract and retain customers. The Company depends on key personnel and will need to recruit new personnel as its business grows. As a small company, Waytronx, Inc. is currently dependent on the efforts of a limited number of management personnel. The Company believes that given the large amount of responsibility being placed on each member of its management team, the loss of the services of any member of this team at the present time would harm its business. If the Company is successful in expanding its product and customer base, the Company will need to add additional key personnel as its business continues to grow. If the Company cannot attract and retain enough qualified and skilled staff, the growth of its business may be limited. The Company’s ability to provide services to customers and expand its business depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain staff with professional experiences that are relevant to technology development and other functions the Company performs. Competition for personnel with these skills is intense. The Company may not be able to recruit or retain the caliber of staff required to carry out essential functions at the pace necessary to sustain or expand its business. The Company believes its future success will depend in part on the following: · the continued employment and performance of its senior management, · its ability to retain and motivate their officers and key employees, and · its ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain, and motivate other highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, sales and customer service personnel. If the Company fails to adequately protect its patents, trademarks and proprietary rights, its business could be harmed. The Company regards its patents, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to its success. The Company relies on trademark and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with their employees, customers, partners and others to protect its proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use the Company’s intellectual property without its authorization. There is no assurance its pending trademark applications for WayCool, WayCoolant, Waytronx, and WayFast will be approved. Effective trademark, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which the Company may in the future offer its products. Therefore, the Company may be unable to prevent third parties from infringement on or otherwise decreasing the value of its trademarks, patents and other proprietary rights. 10 If the Company is to remain competitive, the Company must be able to keep pace with rapid technological change. Because the Company competes in the highly volatile electronics industry, the Company’s future success depends, in part, on its ability to develop or license leading technologies useful in its business, enhance the ease of use of existing products, develop new products and technologies that address the varied needs of customers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. If the Company is unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to incorporate new technology in new features or products, the Company may not be able to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements. The Company may infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the technology industry. The Company may, in the future, be the subject of claims for infringement, invalidity or indemnification claims based on such claims of other parties' proprietary rights. These claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate, divert the Company’s attention and resources, or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. There is a risk that such licenses would not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. Although the Company believes it has full rights to use its current intellectual property without incurring liability to third parties, there is a risk that its products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. Third parties may infringe on the Company’s intellectual property rights There can be no assurance that other parties will not infringe on our intellectual property rights with respect to its current or future technologies. The Company expects that participants in its markets will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number of services and competitors in its industry segment grows. Any such claim, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, create service upgrade delays or require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements might not be available on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. As a result, any such claim of infringement by the Company could have a material adverse effect upon its business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The Company’s Common Stock price may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders. The market price for the Company’s Common Stock is volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, including the following, some of which are beyond its control, which means its market price could be depressed and could impair its ability to raise capital: · actual or anticipated variations in its quarterly operating results; · announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by the Company or its competitors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · conditions or trends relating to the thermal management cooling technology; · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other electromechanical and thermal management related companies; 11 · conditions or trends relating to the marketing, sale or distribution of electromechanical components and industrial controls to OEM manufacturing customers; · changes in the economic performance and/or market valuations of other electromechanical components and industrial controls related companies; · additions or departures of key personnel; · fluctuations of the stock market as a whole. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation limits director liability, thereby making it difficult to bring any action against them for breach of fiduciary duty. The Company is a Colorado corporation. As permitted by Colorado law, the Company's Articles of Incorporation limits the liability of directors to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of a director's fiduciary duty, with certain exceptions. These provisions may discourage shareholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by shareholders on behalf of the Company against a director. The Company may be unable to meet its future capital requirements. The Company is dependent on receipt of additional capital to effectively execute its business plan. If adequate funds are not available to the Company on favorable terms, the Company will not be able to develop new products or enhance existing products in response to competitive pressures, which could affect its ability to continue as a going concern. The Company cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to it on favorable terms when required, or at all. If the Company raises additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or debt securities, such securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the rights of its common stock and its stockholders may experience additional dilution. Penny stock regulations may impose certain restrictions on marketability of our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") has adopted regulations which generally define a "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, the Company’s Common Stock is subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of such securities and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require the delivery, prior to the transaction, of a risk disclosure document mandated by the Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also disclose the commission payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer's presumed control over the market. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Consequently, the "penny stock" rules may restrict the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities. For the foreseeable future, the Company’s securities will likely have a trading price of less than $5.00 per share and will not be traded on any exchanges; therefore, we will be subject to Penny Stock Rules. As a result of the aforesaid rules regulating penny stocks, the market liquidity for our securities could be severely adversely affected by limiting the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and the ability of shareholders to sell their securities in the secondary market. 12 The Company has never paid dividends on its Common Stock and does not expect to pay any in the foreseeable future. Preferred Shares impose restrictions on our ability to pay Common Stock dividends. A potential purchaser should not expect to receive a return on their investment in the form of dividends on our Common Stock. The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common Stock and the Company does not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends on our Common Stock is restricted by the terms of our agreements with the holders of our Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. Holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to annual dividends of 10%. As of December 31, 2008, the Company has 50,543 Series A Convertible Preferred shares outstanding and no Series B Convertible Preferred shares outstanding. In the past, the Company has fulfilled its dividend obligations on the Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock through a combination of the issuance of additional shares of its Series A Convertible Preferred and/or Common Stock and cash payments. On December 31, 2007 dividends payable for the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was $5,054 and on December 31, 2008 the dividends payable for the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was $5,054. Holders of the Company’s Series B Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to annual dividends of $1.00 per share. As of this filing, all Series B Convertible Preferred Stock had been converted to common shares. Substantial sales of our Common Stock could cause our stock price to rapidly decline. The market price of our Common Stock may fall rapidly and significantly due to sales of our Common Stock from other sources such as: · Common Stock underlying the conversion rights of our Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. · Common Stock underlying the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. · Common Stock, which are available for resale under Rule 144 or are otherwise freely tradable and which are not subject to lock-up restrictions. · Common Stock available on the secondary market. · Pledging stock to hedge funds or other corporate lenders as security to borrow money could result in short selling, encumbrance, stock pledge, transfer or sale to procure a hedge against adverse market conditions. Any sale of substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, whether as a result of the sale of Common Stock received by shareholders upon conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, exercise of outstanding warrants or options or otherwise, could lower the market price of our Common Stock. Furthermore, substantial sales of our Common Stock in a relatively short period of time could have the effect of depressing the market price of our Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. The covenants with our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shareholders restrict our ability to incur debt outside the normal course, acquire other businesses, pay dividends on our Common Stock, sell assets or issue our securities without the consent of holders of a majority of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding. Such arrangements may adversely affect our future operations or may require us to make additional concessions to the holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in order to enter into transactions or take actions management deems beneficial and in the best interests of the holders of our Common Stock. 13 Note conversions could result in dilution of common stock The conversion of outstanding promissory notes may result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of common stock, since the investors may ultimately convert and sell the full amount issuable on conversion under the notes. To the extent the selling stockholders convert their notes and then sell their common stock into the market, the common stock price may decrease due to the additional shares in the market. As of December 31, 2008, $1,350,000 principal of outstanding promissory notes and 12% per annum simple interest accruing thereon are convertible to equity. $1,000,000 of these convertible promissory notes plus the interest accruing thereon are convertible at a floating per share price based at 80% of the average closing bid price 10 days preceding conversion date. There is, however, a $0.20 per share minimum conversion price, which means that there is a maximum number of 5,000,000 shares related to the principal conversion plus an additional amount related to interest accrued at the time of conversion that the company may be obligated to issue related to the conversion of the $1,000,000 of convertible promissory notes. The remaining $350,000 of outstanding convertible promissory notes plus the interest accrued thereon are convertible at $0.25 per share, which means that there is a maximum number of 1,400,000 shares related to the principal conversion plus an additional amount related to the interest accrued at the time of conversion that the Company may be obligated to issue related to the conversion of the $350,000 of convertible promissory notes. Additionally, as a portion of the CUI, Inc. asset purchase consideration, the Company has outstanding a $17,500,000 convertible promissory note that accrues annual simple interest at a rate of 1.7% which could convert to Company common stock at a per share conversion of $0.25. The convertible $17,500,000 promissory note is convertible to the equivalent of 70,000,000 shares plus an additional amount related to the interest accrued at the time of conversion that the Company may be obligated to issue. Downward pressure on the stock price could encourage short selling The significant downward pressure on the price of the common stock as the selling stockholders convert and sell material amounts of common stock could encourage short sales by the selling stockholders or others. This could place significant downward pressure on the price of the common stock. In finance, short selling or “shorting” is a way to profit from the decline in price of a security, such as stock or bond. A short sale is generally a sale of a stock you do not own. Investors who sell short believe the price of the stock will fall. If the price drops, you can buy the stock at the lower price and make a profit. If the price of the stock rises and you buy it back later at the higher price, you will incur a loss. When you sell short, your brokerage firm loans you the stock. The stock you borrow comes from either the firm’s own inventory, the margin account of another of the firm’s clients or another brokerage firm. As with buying stock on margin, you are subject to the margin rules. Other fees and charges may apply. If the stock you borrow pays a dividend, you must pay the dividend to the person or firm making the loan. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 Item 