Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could materially and adversely affect our future operating results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in the forward-looking statements we make about our business. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the agreements relating to our indebtedness. We are significantly leveraged. The chart below shows our level of indebtedness and other information as of December 31, 2008. In connection with the consummation of our acquisition of Triad in July 2007, $7.215 billion senior secured financing under a new credit facility, or “New Credit Facility”, was obtained by our wholly-owned subsidiary, CHS/Community Health Systems, Inc. or CHS. CHS also issued 8.875% senior notes, or the “Notes”, having an aggregate principal amount of $3.021 billion. Both the indebtedness under the New Credit Facility and the Notes are senior obligations of CHS and are guaranteed on a senior basis by us and by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. We used the net proceeds from the Notes offering and the net proceeds of the $6.065 billion term loans under the New Credit Facility to pay the consideration under the merger agreement with Triad, to refinance certain of our existing indebtedness and the indebtedness of Triad, to complete certain related transactions, to pay certain costs and expenses of the transactions and for general corporate uses. As of December 31, 2008, a $750 million revolving credit facility and $200 million of our delayed draw term loan facility are available to us for working capital and general corporate purposes under the New Credit Facility, with $93.6 million of the revolving credit facility being set aside for outstanding letters of credit. During the fourth quarter of 2008, $100 million of the delayed draw term loan had been drawn down by us, reducing the delayed draw term loan availability from $300 million to $200 million at December 31, 2008. In January 2009, we drew down the remaining $200 million of the delayed draw term loan. Also, in connection with the consummation of the acquisition of Triad, we completed an early repayment of the $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.5% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2012 through a cash tender offer and consent solicitation. As of December 31, 2008 ($ in millions) Senior secured credit facility Term loans $ 5,965.9 Notes 2,910.8 Other 90.7 Total debt 8,967.4 Stockholder equity 1,672.9 The following table shows the ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges(1) 3.87 x 3.79 x 3.37 x 1.22 x 1.47 x (1) There are no shares of preferred stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2008, our $5.350 billion notional amount of interest rate swap agreements represented approximately 89.7% of our variable rate debt. On a prospective basis, a 1% change in interest rates on the remaining unhedged variable rate debt existing as of December 31, 2008, would result in interest expense fluctuating approximately $6.2 million per year. 22 Table of Contents The New Credit Facility and/or the Notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions, including our ability to: • incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • repurchase capital stock; • make restricted payments, including paying dividends and making investments; • redeem debt that is junior in right of payment to the notes; • create liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • merge, consolidate, sell or otherwise dispose of substantial portions of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • guarantee certain obligations. In addition, our New Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet these restricted covenants and financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet those tests. The counterparty to the interest rate swap agreements exposes us to credit risk in the event of non-performance. However, at December 31, 2008, we do not anticipate non-performance by the counterparty due to the net settlement feature of the agreements and our liability position with respect to all of our counterparties. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our New Credit Facility and/or the Notes. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our New Credit Facility or the Notes, all amounts outstanding under our New Credit Facility and the Notes may become due and payable and all commitments under the New Credit Facility to extend further credit may be terminated. Our leverage could have important consequences for you, including the following: • it may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • some of our borrowings, including borrowings under our New Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; • it may limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • we may be vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business, or we may be unable to carry out capital spending that is important to our growth. 23 Table of Contents Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indenture governing the Notes do not fully prohibit us from doing so. For example, under the indenture for the Notes, we may incur up to $7.815 billion pursuant to a credit facility or a qualified receivables transaction, less certain amounts repaid with the proceeds of asset dispositions. Our New Credit Facility provides for commitments of up to $7.115 billion in the aggregate. Our New Credit Facility also gives us the ability to provide for one or more additional tranches of term loans in aggregate principal amount of up to $600 million without the consent of the existing lenders if specified criteria are satisfied. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. If competition decreases our ability to acquire additional hospitals on favorable terms, we may be unable to execute our acquisition strategy. An important part of our business strategy is to acquire two to four hospitals each year. However, not-for-profit hospital systems and other for-profit hospital companies generally attempt to acquire the same type of hospitals as we do. Some of these other purchasers have greater financial resources than we do. Our principal competitors for acquisitions have included Health Management Associates, Inc. and LifePoint Hospitals, Inc. On some occasions, we also compete with Universal Health Services, Inc. In addition, some hospitals are sold through an auction process, which may result in higher purchase prices than we believe are reasonable. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire additional hospitals on terms favorable to us. If we fail to improve the operations of acquired hospitals, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. Many of the hospitals we have acquired, had, or future acquisitions may have, significantly lower operating margins than we do and/or operating losses prior to the time we acquired or will acquire them. In the past, we have occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of these acquired hospitals. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of acquired hospitals, operate them profitably, or effectively integrate their operations, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. We acquired 50 hospitals in the Triad acquisition. In the past, we have not acquired this many hospitals at one time. We may still experience delays or difficulties in improving the operating margins or the operations of these acquired hospitals. We may not be able to successfully integrate our acquisition of Triad or realize the potential benefits of the acquisition, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to combine successfully the operations of former Triad hospitals with our operations and, even if such integration is accomplished, we may never realize the potential benefits of the acquisition. The integration of former Triad hospitals with our operations requires significant attention from management and may impose substantial demands on our operations or other projects. In addition, Triad’s corporate officers did not continue their employment with us. The integration of Triad also involves a significant capital commitment, and the return that we achieve on any capital invested may be less than the return that we would achieve on our other projects or investments. Any of these factors could cause delays or increased costs of combining former Triad hospitals with us; and could adversely affect our operations, financial results and liquidity. Certain of Triad’s joint venture partners have put or call rights, the exercise of which could affect our available cash and/or operating results. Triad entered into a number of joint venture transactions that entitle its joint venture partners to require Triad to purchase the partner’s interest or to require Triad to sell its interest to the partner. The consideration provided for in these contracts may not be at an advantageous amount vis-à-vis the consideration paid for the Triad acquisition. If these rights are exercised, we may be required to make unanticipated payments, our operations at certain facilities may be adversely affected, or we may be required to divest certain facilities. 24 Table of Contents If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Hospitals that we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations. Although we generally seek indemnification from prospective sellers covering these matters, we may nevertheless have material liabilities for past activities of acquired hospitals. In the case of the Triad acquisition, there was no indemnification provided given the fact that Triad was a public company and the acquisition was effective through a merger. As a result of the Triad acquisition, on a consolidated basis, we are subject to all of the potential liabilities relating to the hospitals held by Triad, including liabilities relating to pending or threatened litigation matters, which, if adversely decided, could have a material adverse effect on our future results, operations and liquidity. State efforts to regulate the construction, acquisition or expansion of hospitals could prevent us from acquiring additional hospitals, renovating our facilities or expanding the breadth of services we offer. Some states require prior approval for the construction or acquisition of healthcare facilities and for the expansion of healthcare facilities and services. In giving approval, these states consider the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. In some states in which we operate, we are required to obtain certificates of need, known as CONs, for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services, and some other matters. Other states may adopt similar legislation. We may not be able to obtain the required CONs or other prior approvals for additional or expanded facilities in the future. In addition, at the time we acquire a hospital, we may agree to replace or expand the facility we are acquiring. If we are not able to obtain required prior approvals, we would not be able to acquire additional hospitals and expand the breadth of services we offer. State efforts to regulate the sale of hospitals operated by not-for-profit entities could prevent us from acquiring additional hospitals and executing our business strategy. Many states, including some where we have hospitals and others where we may in the future acquire hospitals, have adopted legislation regarding the sale or other disposition of hospitals operated by not-for-profit entities. In other states that do not have specific legislation, the attorneys general have demonstrated an interest in these transactions under their general obligations to protect charitable assets from waste. These legislative and administrative efforts focus primarily on the appropriate valuation of the assets divested and the use of the proceeds of the sale by the non-profit seller. While these review and, in some instances, approval processes can add additional time to the closing of a hospital acquisition, we have not had any significant difficulties or delays in completing acquisitions. However, future actions on the state level could seriously delay or even prevent our ability to acquire hospitals. If we are unable to effectively compete for patients, local residents could use other hospitals. The hospital industry is highly competitive. In addition to the competition we face for acquisitions and physicians, we must also compete with other hospitals and healthcare providers for patients. The competition among hospitals and other healthcare providers for patients has intensified in recent years. Our hospitals are located in non-urban service areas. In approximately 65% of our markets, we are the sole provider of general healthcare services. In most of our other markets, the primary competitor is a not-for-profit hospital. These not-for-profit hospitals generally differ in each jurisdiction. However, our hospitals face competition from hospitals outside of their primary service area, including hospitals in urban areas that provide more complex services. Patients in our primary service areas may travel to these other hospitals for a variety of reasons. These reasons include physician referrals or the need for services we do not offer. Patients who seek services from these other hospitals may subsequently shift their preferences to those hospitals for the services we provide. Some of our hospitals operate in primary service areas where they compete with one other hospital. One of our hospitals competes with more than one other hospital in its primary service area. Some of these 25 Table of Contents competing hospitals use equipment and services more specialized than those available at our hospitals. In addition, some competing hospitals are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals can make capital expenditures without paying sales, property and income taxes. We also face competition from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, orthopedic, oncology and diagnostic centers. We expect that these competitive trends will continue. Our inability to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers could cause local residents to use other hospitals. The failure to obtain our medical supplies at favorable prices could cause our operating results to decline. We have a five-year participation agreement with a GPO. This agreement extends to March 2010, with automatic renewal terms of one year, unless either party terminates by giving notice of non-renewal. GPOs attempt to obtain favorable pricing on medical supplies with manufacturers and vendors who sometimes negotiate exclusive supply arrangements in exchange for the discounts they give. To the extent these exclusive supply arrangements are challenged or deemed unenforceable, we could incur higher costs for our medical supplies obtained through HealthTrust. These higher costs could cause our operating results to decline. There can be no assurance that our arrangement with HealthTrust will provide the discounts we expect to achieve. If the fair value of our reporting units declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. At December 31, 2008, we had approximately $4.166 billion of goodwill recorded on our books. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate, based on the fair value of our reporting units, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. The current turmoil in the financial markets and weakness in macroeconomic conditions globally continue to be challenging and we cannot be certain of the duration of these conditions and their potential impact on our stock price performance. If a further decline in our market capitalization and other factors resulted in the decline in our fair value, it is reasonably likely that a goodwill impairment assessment prior to the next annual review, in the fourth quarter of 2009, would be necessary. If such an assessment is required, an impairment of goodwill may be recognized. A non-cash goodwill impairment charge would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in the period the impairment is recognized. The amount of such effect on earnings and losses is dependent on the size of the impairment charge. Risks related to our industry If federal or state healthcare programs or managed care companies reduce the payments we receive as reimbursement for services we provide, our net operating revenues may decline. In 2008, 36.6% of our net operating revenues came from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In recent years, federal and state governments made significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003. Some of these changes have decreased the amount of money we receive for our services relating to these programs. In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have introduced an increasing number of other proposals to make major changes in the healthcare system including an increased emphasis on the linkage between quality of care criteria and payment levels such as the submission of patient quality data to the Secretary of Health and Human Services. In addition, CMS conducts ongoing reviews of certain state reimbursement programs. Federal funding for existing programs may not be approved in the future. Future federal and state legislation may further reduce the payments we receive for our services. The Obama administration has stated as a top priority its desire to reform the U.S. healthcare system with the goal of providing affordable, accessible health care for all Americans. Proposals that have been considered include 26 Table of Contents cost controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, and mandatory health insurance coverage for employees. The “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009” has been signed into law providing for a temporary increase in the federal matching assistance percentage (FMAP), a temporary increase in federal Medicaid DSH allotments, subsidization of health insurance premiums (COBRA) for up to nine months, and grants and loans for infrastructure and incentive payments for providers who adopt and use health information technology. The costs of implementing this law and other proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in payments to healthcare providers under Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs. We cannot predict the course of future healthcare legislation, other changes the administration may seek to implement regarding healthcare or interpretations by the administration of existing governmental healthcare programs and the effect that any legislation change or interpretation may have on us. In addition, insurance and managed care companies and other third parties from whom we receive payment for our services increasingly are attempting to control healthcare costs by requiring that hospitals discount payments for their services in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We believe that this trend may continue and our inability to negotiate increased reimbursement rates or maintain existing rates may reduce the payments we receive for our services. If we fail to comply with extensive laws and government regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. The healthcare industry is required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, maintenance of adequate records, compliance with building codes, environmental protection and privacy. These laws include the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and a section of the Social Security Act, known as the “anti-kickback” statute. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state healthcare programs. In addition, there are heightened coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts by both federal and state government agencies relating to the healthcare industry, including the hospital segment. The ongoing investigations relate to various referral, cost reporting, and billing practices, laboratory and home care services, and physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. For example, the Department of Justice has alleged that we and three of our New Mexico hospitals have caused the state of New Mexico to submit improper claims for federal funds in violation of the Civil False Claims Act. For a further discussion of this matter, see “Legal Proceedings.” In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our current practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs, and operating expenses. A shortage of qualified nurses could limit our ability to grow and deliver hospital healthcare services in a cost-effective manner. Hospitals are currently experiencing a shortage of nursing professionals, a trend which we expect to continue for some time. If the supply of qualified nurses declines in the markets in which our hospitals operate, it may result in increased labor expenses and lower operating margins at those hospitals. In addition, in some markets like California, there are requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, the healthcare services that we provide in these markets may be reduced. 27 Table of Contents If we become subject to significant legal actions, we could be subject to substantial uninsured liabilities or increased insurance costs. In recent years, physicians, hospitals, and other healthcare providers have become subject to an increasing number of legal actions alleging malpractice, product liability, or related legal theories. Even in states that have imposed caps on damages, litigants are seeking recoveries under new theories of liability that might not be subject to the caps on damages. Many of these actions involve large claims and significant defense costs. To protect us from the cost of these claims, we maintain professional malpractice liability insurance and general liability insurance coverage in excess of those amounts for which we are self-insured, in amounts that we believe to be sufficient for our operations. However, our insurance coverage does not cover all claims against us or may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost for us to maintain adequate levels of insurance. The cost of malpractice and other professional liability insurance increased in 2006 by 0.1%, decreased in 2007 by 0.1% and decreased in 2008 by 0.2% as a percentage of net operating revenue. If these costs rise rapidly, our profitability could decline. For a further discussion of our insurance coverage, see our discussion of professional liability insurance claims in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” If we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenue, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced an increase in our provision for bad debts as a percentage of net operating revenue due to a growth in self-pay volume and revenue. Although we continue to seek ways of improving point of service collection efforts and implementing appropriate payment plans with our patients, if we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenue, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay patients may be limited by statutory, regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. Currently, the global economies, and in particular the United States, are experiencing a period of economic uncertainty and the related financial markets are experiencing a high degree of volatility. This current financial turmoil is adversely affecting the banking system and financial markets and resulting in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. This uncertainty poses a risk as it could potentially lead to higher levels of uninsured patients, result in higher levels of patients covered by lower paying government programs and/or result in fiscal uncertainties at both government payors and private insurers. This Report includes forward-looking statements which could differ from actual future results. Some of the matters discussed in this Report include forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “thinks,” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or performance expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These factors include the following: • general economic and business conditions, both nationally and in the regions in which we operate; • our ability to successfully integrate any acquisitions or to recognize expected synergies from such acquisitions, including facilities acquired from Triad; • risks associated with our substantial indebtedness, leverage and debt service obligations; • demographic changes; • changes in, or the failure to comply with, governmental regulations; • legislative proposals for healthcare reform; 28 Table of Contents • potential adverse impact of known and unknown government investigations and Civil False Claims Act litigation; • our ability, where appropriate, to enter into or maintain managed care provider arrangements and the terms of these arrangements; • changes in inpatient or outpatient Medicare and Medicaid payment levels; • increases in the amount and risk of collectability of patient accounts receivable; • increases in wages as a result of inflation or competition for highly technical positions and rising supply costs due to market pressure from pharmaceutical companies and new product releases; • liabilities and other claims asserted against us, including self-insured malpractice claims; • competition; • our ability to attract and retain, without significant employment costs, qualified personnel, key management, physicians, nurses and other healthcare workers; • trends toward treatment of patients in less acute or specialty healthcare settings, including ambulatory surgery centers or specialty hospitals; • changes in medical or other technology; • changes in GAAP; • the availability and terms of capital to fund additional acquisitions or replacement facilities; • our ability to successfully acquire additional hospitals and complete the sale of hospitals held for sale; • our ability to obtain adequate levels of general and professional liability insurance; and • timeliness of reimbursement payments received under government programs. Although we believe that these statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our goals will be achieved. Given these uncertainties, prospective investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are made as of the date of this filing. We assume no obligation to update or revise them or provide reasons why actual results may differ. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 