D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our share price may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred significant losses in the past and we may continue to incur losses in the future. In 2011, our operating loss and net loss were approximately $(32.8) million and $(33.8) million, respectively. Our losses in 2011 resulted from other charges and expenses related to our acquisition of Wavion Inc., remaining effects of the global economic slowdown, the continued limited availability of credit in the global capital markets, the aggressive competition which we face (especially from Chinese vendors), the continued delay in new project launches and delays in allocating spectrum in several countries. Each of the above reasons led to a sequential decline in our gross margin during 2011 and may continue to adversely affect our business and operating results in the future. In 2010 and 2009, our operating loss was approximately $(90.5) million and $(9.6) million, respectively, and our net loss was approximately $(98.5) million and $(7.2) million, respectively. In addition, we have incurred operating losses in each of our last five fiscal years, and net losses in four of our last five fiscal years (with the exception of 2007). We may continue to incur operating losses and net losses in the future. Further, in the event our recent restructuring plan, which we implemented in 2011 (as hereinafter described in Item 4 – Organizational Restructuring and New Strategic Initiatives through Acquisitions) does not reduce costs as expected, it may have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations may continue to incur losses. Continuing losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and on the value and market price of our ordinary shares. Continuing losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and on the value and market price of our ordinary shares, and may require that we further restructure our operations. Continued unfavorable global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States, Europe and Asia which began in 2008 and 2009 and which has continued through 2010 and 2011, led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of the United States and Europe showing significant signs of weakness. If the economies in the countries in which we operate do not improve or weaken further, telecom carriers and our partners and other customers in such countries may further significantly reduce or postpone their technology spending as well as require aggressive vendor financing. This could result in continued reductions in sales, further decreases in our revenues, longer sales cycles, slower market acceptance of our products and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, Europe or Asia or other key markets do not improve or weaken further, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 3 Adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry and in the telecommunications equipment market may decrease demand for our products and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems are used by telecom carriers and service providers and within vertical markets, such as municipalities and utility companies. As a result of our customers’ continued tightened spending as well as the limited licenses and substantial capital requirements which limit growth into new markets, our revenues further declined in 2010 and 2011 and may continue to decline and our losses may increase in the future since we believe that the economic global situation in general, and in specific regions such as Europe, will continue to be affected by the slowdown. Adverse market conditions in the past years have also led our customers and potential customers to be conservative in their spending, and this could continue in the future. Due to these conditions, the markets in which we operate may not grow as we expect or may decrease. While our goal is to increase our sales by expanding the range of customers that we address, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. Moreover, the number of orders received by carriers and service providers who are our current and potential customers may decrease because of the limited number of licenses granted in each country and the substantial capital requirements involved in establishing networks as well as the fierce competition we face in our business. As a result, our revenues declined in 2010 and 2011 and our revenues may continue to decline and our losses may continue to increase. New markets we attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets or technologies that we develop or have developed, may become superseded by other competing technologies. In addition, if we do not maintain or increase our market share of the wireless broadband equipment market, our business will suffer. The wireless broadband market, both fixed and mobile, and other new markets we attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets or may not evolve in a manner that will enable our products to achieve market acceptance. If such markets do not evolve or develop or we do not maintain or increase our market share within our current markets, our revenues may continue to decrease. In addition, our Mobile WiMAX technology targets 4th generation cellular technologies ("4G") services and therefore competes with other technologies such as Long Term Evolution ("LTE"), which is becoming the 4G leading technology and the major competitor of WiMAX for wireless broadband markets. The market transition to TD-LTE technology and the perception that LTE will replace WiMAX Technology have resulted in a decline in demand for WiMax technology and equipment and have negatively impacted our sales and results of operations. WiMAX market acceptance has been hampered by competing technologies (such as LTE) and may be hampered by intellectual property rights disputes. In order to maintain or increase our market share in the markets in which we operate, we must: · continue to innovate and differentiate our technology position by designing, developing and manufacturing broadband wireless access products; · develop and cultivate additional sales channels in addition to our direct sales from which we currently generate our main revenues, including regional local partners or other strategic arrangements with leading manufacturers of access equipment, who can market our wireless broadband products to prospective customers, such as local exchange carriers, international cellular operators, Internet and application service providers, municipalities, customers in education, oil and gas, and other vertical markets, other private network operators and local telephone companies; 4 · effectively establish and support relationships with customers, including local exchange carriers, Internet and application service providers, public fixed or mobile telephone service providers and private network operators; and · continue to enhance our maintenance and support services. Our efforts in these markets may not succeed. Intense competition in the markets for our products may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Many companies compete with us in the wireless broadband equipment market in which we sell our products, particularly Chinese vendors. These vendors have substantially increased their market share in the past few years. We expect that competition from Chinese and other large vendors will increase in the future, including with respect to products that we currently offer and products that we intend to introduce in the future. As the market transitions toward standardization and LTE technology, competition becomes increasingly more challenging for us. In addition, some system integrators and other strategic partners to which we sell our wireless broadband products could develop the capability to manufacture systems similar to our wireless broadband products or choose to work exclusively with our competitors. We expect our competitors to continue improving the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that may supplant or provide lower cost alternatives to our products or perform better than our products. We also face competition from large telecommunication equipment vendors, such as Huawei, Samsung, and ZTE Corporation, especially with respect to the wireless broadband products. Some customers may prefer to purchase products from these large vendors, as has occurred on a number of occasions. Multiple companies with a range of diverse products and solutions compete with us in the license-exempt and vertical markets in which we sell our products. These competitors may have a vertical-focus or a multi-vertical focus. Many of these vendors have been able to grow their market share in the past few years in the territories in which we are active. We expect that competition from these vendors will increase, including with respect to products that we currently offer and products that we intend to introduce in the future. As the market transitions toward standardization and WiFi 802.11n technology, competition becomes increasingly challenging and makes room for entry level, low cost offerings by our competitors. We expect our competitors to continue improving the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that may have better performance or supplant our products entirely. We may also face new competition from larger players in the telecom market and/ or indoor wireless vendors, such as Cisco, Samsung, and Aruba, especially with respect to the WiFi-based products. Our license-exempt and vertical market business may be affected by the dynamics of spectrum allocations. The allocation of alternative spectrum such as TV white space spectrum, 24GHz unlicensed band, and 60GHz unlicensed band may become a relevant alternative to the current spectrum upon which our product portfolio is based. Additional license based spectrum, such as the 700MHz public safety band, 6GHz, 70GHz, or LMDS spectrum may become a relevant alternative for our vertical market customers and as such impact our license-exempt and vertical market business. We expect all of these competitors to continue improving their technologies and products, which may cause us to lose some of our customers or prevent us from entering into new markets. Some of our existing and potential competitors, including large competitors arising from the continued consolidation in the telecommunications equipment market as well as increased competition from Chinese vendors, have substantially greater resources, including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing, and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than we do. Increased competition, direct and indirect, has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, reductions of average selling prices, shorter product life cycles due to our competitors' launch of innovative products in the market more frequently, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and potential loss of market share and, consequently, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. 5 We may not be able to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly, offer better performance than the products of our competitors, or offer our customers payment or other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. In addition, we may not be able to offer our products as part of integrated systems or solutions or provide services to the same extent as our competitors. A failure to accomplish one or more of these objectives could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability, harming our financial condition and results of operations. Technological changes may have an adverse effect on the market acceptance of our products and may adversely affect our results of operations. The development of new or enhanced productsin vertical markets is a complex and uncertain process. For example, product development is multi-disciplinary, involving hardware design and development, software, integration, and intensive and complicated system design, and resulting in a long development cycle. We are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the development of various types of product lines having using technologies. We have experienced and may continue to experience design, development, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties due to delays in our development or delays by third party vendors, and these delays have caused and could continue to cause difficulties or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or product enhancements and subject us to intensified competition. Such difficulties could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products or our inability to timely introduce to the market our products, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Also, such delays could lead sales partners and distributors to turn to competing vendors. The launch and availability of certain of our new products has also been delayed, which may harm our competitiveness and our ability to penetrate, and market these products in, vertical markets in an efficient and timely manner. In addition, market changes could render our products and technologies obsolete or subject them to intense competition by alternative products or technologies or by improvements in existing products or technologies. For example, the wireless broadband equipment market may stop growing as a result of the deployment of alternative technologies that are constantly improving, such as DSL, cable modem, fiber optic, coaxial cable, satellite systems, third or fourth generation cellular systems, or high speed packet access (“HSPA”) and LTE technologies. New or enhanced products developed by our competitors may be technologically superior to our products, may limit our target markets or may render our products obsolete, and consequently adversely affect our results of operations. New chips introduced may include built-in capabilities which are currently an Alvarion product differentiator, which would lower the barrier for competition. The success of our technology depends on the following factors, among others: · market acceptance of new and innovative technologies; · market acceptance of standards for wireless broadband products; · timely availability and maturity of technology from technology suppliers and chip-vendors, such as Sequans, Beceem (acquired by Broadcom in 2011), Gemtek, Cisco, Tellabs and Atheros (acquired by Qualcomm); · network capacity to handle growing demands for faster transmission of increasing amounts of data and voice; · cost-effectiveness and performance compared to other broadband wireless technologies; · reliability and security; · suitability of our technology for a sufficient number of geographic regions; · the availability of sufficient frequencies and site locations for carriers to deploy and install products at commercially reasonable rates; and · safety and environmental concerns regarding wireless broadband transmissions. 6 We may experience difficulties or delays in the introduction of new or enhanced products, which could result in reduced sales or unexpected expenses. The development of new or enhanced products in vertical markets is a complex and uncertain process. For example, product development is multi-disciplinary, involving hardware design and development, software, integration, and intensive and complicated system design, and resulting in a long development cycle. We are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the development of various types of product lines having using technologies. We have experienced and may continue to experience design, development, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties due to delays in our development or delays by third party vendors, and these delays have caused and could continue to cause difficulties or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or product enhancements and subject us to intensified competition. Such difficulties could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products or our inability to timely introduce to the market our products, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Also, such delays could lead sales partners and distributors to turn to competing vendors. The launch and availability of certain of our new products has also been delayed, which may harm our competitiveness and our ability to penetrate, and market these products in, vertical markets in an efficient and timely manner. Businesses we recently acquired may not be successfully integrated with our operations and our technologies, which may harm our business and results of operations. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we acquired Wavion Inc. ("Wavion") in order to create new growth engines and penetrate into new market segments (the “Wavion Transaction”). Wavion is a provider of carrier grade outdoor Wi-Fi solutions, offering a variety of different products for Wi-Fi access and 3rd Generation cellular technologies (“3G”) off-load applications. We also acquired the intellectual property of Clariton Ltd. (“Clariton”) in the beginning of 2011 in order to penetrate the indoor wireless market using Clariton's Distributed Antenna System (DAS) technology and know-how (the “Clariton Transaction” and together with the Wavion Transaction, the “Acquisition Transactions”). The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties such as leveraging our sales forces to sell and distribute the Wavion products and enable full support as well as integrating all of the operations including the two R&D divisions into one integrated operation, and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our operations or expand into new markets, such as the Wi-Fi market or the market for cellular indoor coverage solutions, as a result of any acquisition. We also cannot assure that the Wi-Fi market will grow as we expect or that our market share of the Wi-Fi market will grow as expected. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected and may increase our costs of operations, which may be higher than expected. We also cannot assure you that we will succeed in retaining our employees or those of any acquired companies following any acquisition, including key employees in managerial positions. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and as a result may decrease our share price in the future. 7 We received a $30 million loan facility from Silicon Valley Bank ("SVB"). If we fail to comply with the terms of the loan agreement with SVB, our available cash and our business operations may be significantly harmed. For the purpose of financing the acquisition of Wavion, we obtained a $ 30 million credit facility from SVB (the “Long Term Loan”). As part of the transaction, we pledged all of our assets under a floating charge, and created a fixed charge on our IP rights and receivables. The loan and security agreement with SVB contains various provisions related to compliance with financial covenants, restrictive covenants, including negative pledges, and other customary commitments, contained in facility agreements of this type. As of April 1, 2012, the Company was in breach of certain financial covenants and on April 25, we reached a general agreement with SVB for the grant of a temporary forbearance of the breached covenants and a modification of the terms of the Long Term Loan, which amended terms include an increase in the interest rate applicable to the Long Term Loan and the repayment of approximately $7million of principal on the loan in addition to its normal loan payments by July 2012, after which the outstanding balance of the Long Term Loan is expected to be approximately $20 million. However, there is no assurance that we will not breach the terms of the Long Term Loan in the future or that we will remain in compliance with the amended terms. In addition, should we fail to comply with our obligations under the amended Long Term Loan, SVB may require immediate repayment of the Long Term Loan and realize on its security, which can significantly harm our available cash and our operations. For more information please see "Item 10 C – Material Contracts" below. We have engaged and may continue to engage in mergers and acquisitions which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and dilute our shareholders’ equity. We have pursued and, subject to market conditions, may continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal growth and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Past and future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing, and could result, without limitation, in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our ordinary shares: · issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current shareholders; · large write-offs; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities which we may not be able to repay or comply with covenants we agree to in connection therewith; · difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; · diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; · contractual disputes; · risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; · loss of key employees of acquired organizations; and · negative impact on our cash reserves. 8 We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations which have caused, and may cause, volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations, in particular, in light of intense competition, especially from Chinese vendors as outlined earlier and hereinafter, the continuing effects of the global slowdown and the continued limited availability of credit in the global capital markets. Any fluctuations may cause our results of operations to decrease below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. This would likely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: · the uneven pace of spectrum licensing to carriers and service providers; · purchasing patterns of our customers, including the size and timing of orders and the timing of large scale deployments; · the fulfillment of all revenue recognition criteria; · customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product features or price reductions; · the introduction of our new products or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products; · seasonality, including the relatively low level of general business activity in the first and third quarters of each year; · disruption or changes in the quality of our sources of supply; · changes in the mix of products sold by us; · mergers or acquisitions, by us, our competitors and existing and potential customers, if any; · one-time charges such as asset impairment and restructuring charges; · fluctuations in the exchange rate of the New Israeli Shekel (the “NIS”) against the United States dollar; · general economic conditions, including the unfavorable global economic conditions; and · network approval process dependencies. Our customers ordinarily require the delivery of products promptly after their orders are accepted. Historically, our business does not have a significant backlog of accepted orders. Consequently, revenues in any quarter depend primarily on orders that are received and accepted in that quarter. The deferral of the placing and acceptance of any large order from one quarter to another could materially and adversely affect our results of operations for the former quarter. Our revenue recognition is complex and dependent on various parameters and milestones. If revenues from our business in any quarter remain in the same level or decline in comparison to any previous quarter, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our operating expenses may increase significantly. If revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly or at a higher rate, or if we do not reduce our expenses in a timely manner in response to lower level or declining revenues, our results of operations for that quarter would be materially adversely affected. Because of the variations that we have experienced in our quarterly results of operations, we do not believe quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. 9 Our products have long and unpredictable sales cycles which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. The sales cycle for most of our products encompasses significant technical evaluation and testing by each potential purchaser and a commitment of significant cash and other resources. The sales cycle can extend for more than one year and sometimes even two years from initial contact with a customer to receipt of a purchase order, and in certain instances may not even result in the receipt of an order. This time frame may be extended due to, among other reasons, a customer's desire to ensure that the systems work for a long period with increased number of subscribers’ coverage and capacity, a customer's need to obtain financing or other means of collateral to purchase systems incorporating our products, the regulatory authorization of competition in local services, delays in the licensing of spectrum for these services and other regulatory hurdles. As a result of the length of these sales cycles, revenues from our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and fail to correspond with associated expenses, which are largely based on anticipated revenues. In addition, the delays inherent in the sales cycles of our products raise additional risks of customers canceling or changing their product plans. Our revenues will be adversely affected if a significant customer, or a significant potential customer, reduces, delays or cancels orders during the sales cycle or chooses not to deploy networks incorporating our products. Any such fluctuation in revenue or cancellation of orders may have an adverse effect on our business and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the global economic recession as well as the on-going European debt crisis may continue to have an adverse effect on the length and the success of our sales cycle. Our business is dependent upon the success of our distributors, system integrators and other partners, who are under no obligation to purchase our products. A portion of our revenues is derived from sales to our independent partners, such as distributors and system integrators. Our distributors resell our products to others, who further resell our products to end users. Changes in the distribution and sales channels of our products, a loss of a major distributor or a major distributor’s loss of a major end-user, or our inability to establish effective distribution and sales channels for new products may impact our ability to sell our products and result in a loss of revenues. Additionally, sales through our distributors and system integrator channels expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our products. For example, some of these distributors, system integrators and other partners may terminate their relationships with us, consolidate or face financial problems, as well as promote competing products or emphasize alternative technologies, which may turn them into our competitors rather than our partners, all of which may result in a decline in the purchase of our products. We are dependent upon the acceptance of our products by the market through our partners' efforts in marketing and sales. In some cases, arrangements with our partners do not prevent them from selling competitive products and some of the arrangements do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. In addition, our efforts to increase sales may suffer from the lack of brand visibility resulting from the integration of these products into more comprehensive systems by distributors and system integrators. Changes in the financial condition, business or marketing strategies of our partners could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these changes could occur suddenly and rapidly. If our revenues decrease and our days- sales-outstanding (“DSO”) increase, we may suffer from a cash shortfall. Our DSOs increased to 106 days in 2011 from 87 days in 2010.We expect that over time our DSOs may further increase and we expect our DSOs will range between 90 to 120 days during 2012, mainly due to our customers requesting more favorable payment terms from us as part of increased competition, as well as the limited availability of credit in the capital markets, which may also affect our ability to collect our customers' debts in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we may experience an increase in DSOs if we fail to timely collect revenues from our customers. 10 We may experience a decrease in our gross margin levels in the future, which may adversely affect our financial results. We believe that several markets in which we operate have caused, and may continue to cause, a decline in our gross margin, mainly due to (a) the fact that our revenue mix contained a high proportion of third party equipment, combined with the continued aggressive competition as described hereinabove and hereinafter, (b) the delay in new project launches and (c) the continued economic slowdown in these markets, all of which resulted in a low level of revenue which led to a large sequential decline in gross margin. Additional reasons for a decline in our gross margin include the following: (i) increased competition in the regions in which we currently operate; (ii) changes in the mix of our products, such as an increase in the volume of sales of lower-margin Customer Premise Equipment (“CPEs”); (iii) the entry of new, large vendors into our markets; (iv) changes in the market demand of some of our existing and potential products; (v) our engaging in “turn-key” projects, which involve lower margins on third party equipment and services; and (vi) our entry into new geographical markets with lower margins, such as India. We expect this decline in gross margin to continue over time. If our revenues do not increase and our operating expenses remain the same or increase, the decline in gross margin will have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our products are complex and may have errors or defects that are detected only after deployment in complex networks. Some of our products are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in complex networks. Although our products are tested during manufacturing and prior to deployment, our customers may discover errors after the products have been fully deployed. If we are unable to fix errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, including problems related to the site survey, radio planning and other problems that are not necessarily related to product functionality but to the associated services, or unable to correct the errors in a timely manner, we could experience: · costs associated with remediation; · loss of or delay in revenues; · loss of customers; · failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; · diversion of deployment resources; · diversion of research and development resources to fix errors in the field; · increased service and warranty costs; · legal actions or demands for compensation by our customers; and · increased insurance costs. In October 2011, Open Range Communications, Inc., one of our major customers, filed for bankruptcy in the Bankruptcy Court of Delaware. In the declaration filed by its Chief Financial Officer in support of the company’s Chapter 11 petition, Open Range alleged that Alvarion’s failure to achieve the system performance and quality, in accordance with the signed contracts, was one of the reasons for Open Range’s bankruptcy. If a legal action is filed against us, following such allegations, this may harm our reputation and our operations. 11 Our products are often integrated with other network components. There may be incompatibilities between these components and our products that could significantly harm service providers or their subscribers. Product problems in the field could require us to incur costs or divert resources and may subject us to liability for damages caused by the problems or delay research and development projects because of the diversion of resources. These problems could also harm our reputation and competitive position in the industry. We could be subject to warranty claims and product recalls, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. Products like ours sometimes contain undetected errors. These errors can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, we are dependent on unaffiliated suppliers for key components incorporated into our products. Defects in systems in which our products are deployed, whether resulting from faults in our products or products supplied by others, from faulty installation or from any other cause, may result in customer dissatisfaction. Additionally, we are continually marketing several new products. The risk of errors in these new products, as in any new product, may be greater than the risk of errors in established products. The warranties for our products permit customers to return for repair or replacement, within a period ranging from 14 to 21 months of purchase, any defective products. Any failure of a system in which our products are deployed (whether or not our products are the cause), any product recall and any associated negative publicity could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our liability for product defects to product replacements, we may not be successful, and customers may sue us or claim liability for defective products and for related claims arising therefrom. A successful product liability claim could result in substantial cost or divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on limited sources for key components of our products may lead to disruptions in the delivery and increased cost of our products, harming our business and results of operations. We currently obtain key components for our products from a limited number of suppliers, and in some instances from a single supplier. In addition, some of the components that we purchase from single suppliers are custom-made. We cannot be sure that we will not experience increased costs or disruptions in the delivery of our product components. In addition, there is a global demand for some electrical components that are used in our systems and that are supplied by relatively few suppliers. Our dependence on these limited sources for key components for our products presents the following potential risks: · delays in delivery or shortages of components, especially for custom-made components or components with long delivery lead times, could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellations of orders for our products; · suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect on the manufacturing costs of our products; · due to the global financial recession, some of our suppliers may cease to exist or face financial difficulties which could affect the supply chain; · we may not be able to develop alternative sources for product components; · suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our products which may require us to modify our products and which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased product prices; · we may be required to hold more inventory for longer periods of time than we otherwise might in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance, which could lead to write offs of inventory; and · due to the political situation in the Middle East and the fact that our headquarters are located in Israel, we may not be able to import necessary components from different countries world-wide. 12 Our dependence on third party equipment embedded in our products and complimentary systems may impact our business. We rely on third party software and hardware embedded in our solution. If our licensors fail to support the software or hardware embedded in our solution we may suffer difficulties in supporting our customers and delivering our equipment. We are also dependent on complementary systems such as CPEs, and Access Service Networks Gateways, or ASN- GW, which are part of our solution. Failure by our vendors to deliver such products or discontinue production of such products may cause difficulties to, and may have an adverse effect, on our business. Changes within any of these vendors’ environments can influence our business results. For example, the recent announcement by one of our ASN-GW partners that it would not continue investing in new developments in our line of business in 2011 may influence price levels or change the partners’ roadmap in a way that could harm our business. In addition, in the past, we experienced delays and shortages in the supply of components on more than one occasion. We may experience such delays in the future, harming our business and results of operations. We must be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demands of our customers. To ensure that we are able to meet customer demand for our products, we place orders with our subcontractors and suppliers based on our estimates of future sales. If actual sales differ materially from these estimates, our inventory levels may be too high, and inventory may become obsolete and/or over-stated on our balance sheet. This result would require us to write off inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we wrote off inventory in the amounts of $4.0 million, $4.8 million and $2.6 million, respectively. In addition, in 2011 we wrote off additional inventory related to bankruptcy of a customer in an amount of $7.1 million. We are required to place manufacturing orders well in advance of the time we expect to sell products, and this may result in us ordering a larger or smaller number of these products than required. In the event that we order the manufacture of a greater or lesser amount of these products than necessary, we may be required to purchase the surplus products or to forego or delay the sale or delivery of the products that we did not order in advance. In either case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 13 The limited manufacturing capacity of a number of subcontractors we depend on may prevent us from filling orders in the timeframe and with the quality specifications our customers demand, which may harm our business and results of operations. We currently depend on a number of contract manufacturers with limited manufacturing capacity to manufacture our products. The assembly of certain of our finished products, and the manufacture of custom printed circuit boards utilized in electronic subassemblies and related services are also performed by these independent subcontractors. In addition, we rely on third-party “turn-key” manufacturers to manufacture certain sub-systems for our products. Reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to significant risks, including risks resulting from: · potential lack of manufacturing capacity; · limited control over delivery schedules; · quality assurance and control; · manufacturing yields and production costs; · voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship with us; · difficulty in, and timeliness of, substituting any of our contract manufacturers, which could take as long as six months or more; · the economic and political conditions in their environments; and · their financial strength. If the operations of our contract manufacturers are halted, even temporarily, or if our contract manufacturers are unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we may experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. Any of these risks could result in manufacturing delays or increases in manufacturing costs and expenses. If we experience manufacturing delays, we could lose orders for our products and, as a result, lose customers. There may be an adverse effect on our profitability and, consequently, on our results of operations, if we incur increased costs. Regulation by governments or other public authorities may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our products that may be difficult and costly. Our business is premised on the availability of certain radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under international treaties and local laws, which differ by country. Some of our products operate in license-free bands in the radio spectrum, while others operate in licensed bands. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to significant change, the results and timing of which are uncertain. In some cases, the continued validity of licenses may be conditioned on the licensee complying with various conditions. Since WiMAX technologies evolve and enable new applications, such as mobile services, in some countries the regulators may not permit an operator to use the spectrum previously allocated according to its full technology potential and its latest technological evolution. The regulators in some countries may avoid granting WiMAX spectrum to protect owners of other spectrums previously allocated or they may wait until new technologies such as LTE become available before starting the frequency allocation process. In addition to regulation of available frequencies, our products must conform to a variety of national and international regulations that require compliance with administrative and technical requirements as a condition to the operation or marketing of devices that emit radio frequency energy. The regulatory environment in which we sell our products subjects us to several risks, including the following: · Our customers may not be able to obtain sufficient frequencies for their planned uses of our wireless broadband products; 14 · Failure by the regulatory authorities to allocate suitable and sufficient radio frequencies in a timely manner could deter potential customers from ordering our wireless broadband products. Also, frequency licenses and other regulations may include terms that affect the desirability of using our products; · The process of establishing new regulations for wireless broadband frequencies and allocating these frequencies to operators is complex and lengthy, and delays in this process may postpone the commercial deployment of our products; · If our products operate in the license-free bands, Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and similar rules in other countries require operators of radio frequency devices, such as our products, to cease operation of a device if its operation causes interference with authorized users of the spectrum and to accept interference caused by other users; · If the use of our products interferes with authorized users, or if users of our products experience interference from other users, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected; · Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of frequency spectrum, may significantly impact our operations by rendering our current products obsolete or non-compliant, restricting the applications and markets served by our products, or requiring us to modify our products; · Regulatory changes and restrictions imposed due to environmental concerns, such as restrictions imposed on the location of outdoor antennas; · Spectrum technology neutrality or specific technology allocation may be changed by regulatory authorities towards other competing technologies or to fit specific competitive solutions. Spectrum allocation may specify a particular technology, such as 3G, LTE or WiMAX rather than enabling the spectrum owner to determine the technology; and · Export control laws and regulations which are applicable to all of our products and technology may become more stringent in the future. We are subject to certain European directives like the directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and the directive on the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment and may also be subject to other similar legislation in other parts of the world. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect, and its unauthorized use by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete depends and will continue to depend, to a large extent, on maintaining our proprietary rights and the rights that we currently license or will license in the future from third parties. We rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and copyright law and on confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have obtained several patents and have several patent applications pending that are associated with our products. We also have several trademark registrations associated with our name and some of our products. These measures may not be sufficiently adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Third-party patent applications filed earlier may block our patent applications or receive broader claim coverage. In addition, any patents issued to us, if issued at all, may not provide us with significant commercial protection. Third parties may also invalidate, circumvent, challenge or design around our patents or trade secrets, and our proprietary technology may otherwise become known, or similar technology may be independently developed by competitors. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Failure to successfully protect our intellectual property from infringement may damage our ability to compete effectively and harm our results of operations. 15 We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. From time to time we receive letters alleging that we have infringed upon a patent, trademark or other proprietary right. As the broadband wireless access market transitions toward standardization, we are more exposed to intellectual property litigation by third parties who claim to hold intellectual property rights related to such standards. In addition, based on the size and sophistication of our competitors and the history of rapid technological change in our industry, it is possible that several competitors may have intellectual property rights that could relate to our products. Therefore, we may need to litigate to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Similarly, we may need to litigate to enforce or uphold the validity of our patent, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Other actions may involve ownership disputes over our intellectual property or the misappropriation of our trade secrets or proprietary technology. As a result of these actions, we may have to seek licenses to third-parties' intellectual property rights, which may not be able to be successfully integrated into our products. These licenses may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, litigation could be expensive and time consuming and could result in court orders preventing us from selling our then-current products or from operating our business. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no assurance that any such allegation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to maintain licenses to use certain technologies, we may not be able to develop and sell our products. We receive licenses from third party companies for certain technologies we use in connection with some of our technologies. The loss of these licenses could impair our ability to develop and market our products. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the licenses that we need, we may be unable to develop and market our products or processes, or we may need to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance characteristics or at greater cost. We cannot assure you that we can maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses, if we need them in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Also, some of our products utilize open source technologies. These technologies are licensed to us on varying license structures. These licenses and others like them pose a potential risk to products should they be inappropriately used. We depend on key personnel and several members of our senior management have been recently appointed. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of key personnel. Most members of our senior management team are new to their positions and we will have a new Chief Executive Officer as of May 6, 2012. They may need time to acquire the requisite knowledge of our company and the specific skills necessary to successfully carry out the tasks required of them, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Five of the eight members of our senior management, including our chief financial officer, were only appointed to their present positions in 2011 and another was only appointed in October 2010. Some of these individuals had little or no previous experience working for Alvarion. Furthermore, Eran Gorev, our Chief Executive Officer and President, will leave the Company and be replaced by Mr. Hezi Lapid, effective May 6, 2012. Mr. Lapid is new to Alvarion while our chief financial officer joined Alvarion in September 2008 as the vice president of our financial division, and became chief financial officer on January 1, 2011. Our Chief Operating Officer (ex-Wavion CEO), Mr. Tal Meirzon, joined Alvarion in November 2011 as a result of the Wavion acquisition. Should any members of senior management, including our new Chief Executive Officer, fail to perform as expected, or should they or other new key managerial appointees fail to acquire the requisite knowledge and skills in a timely manner, or should they decide to leave the Company on their own initiative, our operations may be disrupted and this might adversely affect the results of our operations. The restructurings that the Company underwent, and may carry out in the future, create morale issues, which may induce employees to leave the Company. If certain of our key technical, sales or senior management personnel terminate their employment and we are unable to retain qualified replacements, our business and results of operations could be harmed. 16 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company. As a result of the combination of our substantial holdings of cash, cash equivalents and securities and the decline in the market price of our ordinary shares from its historical highs, there is a risk that we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for United States federal income tax purposes. However, based upon our market capitalization during 2011, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2011. In addition, based upon our valuation of our assets as of the end of each quarter of 2002 and 2003 and an independent valuation of our assets as of the end of each quarter of 2001, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2001, 2002 or 2003, despite the relatively low market price of our ordinary shares during some of those years. We cannot assure you, however, that the United States Internal Revenue Service or the courts would agree with our conclusion if they were to consider our situation. There is no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2012 or in subsequent taxable years. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. taxpayers that own our ordinary shares would be subject to additional taxes upon certain distributions by us or upon gains recognized after a sale or disposition of our ordinary shares unless they appropriately elect to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” or to make a “mark-to-market election” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Our classification as a PFIC could also adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. For more information, see “Item 10—Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Tax Considerations with Respect to the Acquisition, Ownership and Disposition of our Ordinary Shares—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status”. The price of our ordinary shares is subject to volatility. The price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. For the two year period ended December 31, 2011, the price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has ranged from a high of $4.28 to a low of $0.83. On December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012, the closing price of our ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $0.91 and $0.93 respectively. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the future, based on the following factors, among others: · general economic conditions; · our prospects; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our sales and results of operations; · variations between our actual or anticipated results of operations and the published expectations of analysts; · general conditions in the wireless broadband products industry and general conditions in the telecommunications equipment industry; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and capital commitments; · introduction of technologies or product enhancements or new industry substitute standards that reduce the need for our products; · the effect of general political conditions on our operations and results; and · departures of key personnel. 17 We have received a written notice from NASDAQ that we are not currently in compliance with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Global Select Market. If we fail to regain compliance, our ordinary shares may be delisted and the price of our ordinary shares and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. As of April 25, the bid price for our ordinary shares had closed under $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. On April 26, 2012, we received a notice from the NASDAQ Listing Qualification Department indicating that, for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price for our common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the NASDAQ Listing Rules. The notification letter states that pursuant to the NASDAQ Listing Rules the Company will be afforded 180 calendar days, or until October 23, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. In order to regain compliance, shares of the Company’s common stock must maintain a minimum bid closing price of at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance by October 23, 2012, we may be eligible for additional time to regain compliance. If we are not eligible for additional time or fail to regain compliance after such an extension, NASDAQ will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be subject to delisting. In addition, we must continue to satisfy NASDAQ's other continued listing requirements, including among other things, a minimum stockholders' equity of $10.0 million. A delisting of our ordinary shares from the NASDAQ Global Select Market would have a material adverse effect on our business and could materially reduce the liquidity of our ordinary shares and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our ordinary shares. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, suppliers, customers and employees. If our ordinary shares are delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select Market, trading in our common shares would likely move to another market, such as the NASDAQ Capital Market, or be quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or pink sheets, which could adversely affect the liquidity or market price of our ordinary shares. We may be named as a defendant in securities class action lawsuits, or in other time consuming and expensive litigation that requires extensive management attention and resources and which may be expensive, lengthy and disruptive. In the future, we may be named as a defendant in securities class action lawsuits or in other time consuming and expensive litigation. Legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations, and can require extensive management attention and resources, regardless of their merit. Moreover, we cannot predict the results of such legal proceedings, and an unfavorable outcome of a lawsuit or proceeding could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operating in international markets exposes us to risks, which could cause our sales to decline and our operations to suffer and could expose us to various legal, business, political and economic risks. While we are headquartered in Israel, approximately 99% of our sales in recent years were generated globally, outside of Israel. Our products are marketed internationally and we are, therefore, subject to certain risks associated with international sales, including the following: · trade restrictions, tariffs, and technology import and export license requirements, which may restrict our ability to export our products or may make our products less price-competitive; · effects of economic conditions and credit availability; · adverse tax consequences; 18 · greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; · difficulties in managing our overseas subsidiaries and staffing multiple offices and multiple research and development centers, and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; · difficulties in enforcing contracts and implementing our accounts receivable function, which introduces revenue recognition, translation, proximity and cultural challenges; · political and economic instability, particularly in emerging markets; · reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries where we may seek to expand our sales in the future; · laws and business practices favoring local companies; · differing labor standards; · costs of localizing our products for foreign countries and the lack of acceptance of localized products in foreign countries; and · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the implications on our financial statements. We may encounter significant difficulties with the sale of our products in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. There may be health and safety risks related to wireless products. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from cellular telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us, or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market our products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. 19 Risks Related to Our Location in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and the majority of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel and in the Middle East directly affect our operations. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In the event of war, we and our Israeli subcontractors and suppliers may cease operations which may cause delays in the development, manufacturing or shipment of our products. In recent years, there has been an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive and continued hostilities along Israel's border with the Gaza Strip. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons which could attract preemptive actions by Israel and/or Western countries. Furthermore, since the beginning of 2011 there has been instability in the bordering countries such as Egypt and Syria. We have witnessed increased instability in the region, in particular related to the governmental changes in Egypt and the deterioration of the internal government and control of Syria's President Assad, over Syria's internal affairs. This and further deterioration could have an adverse effect on the stability of our region and specifically on the relations between Israel and Egypt, which have been parties to a peace treaty since the late 1970s. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as tension between Israel and terror organizations and other countries in the Middle East, combined with political instability in the Middle East such as in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Iran and Lebanon, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, several countries, principally some of those in the Middle East, still restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously limit our ability to offer our services to customers in these countries. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Many of our officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual military service duty until they reach age 45 and, in the event of a military conflict could be called to active duty. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our employees due to military service or the absence for extended periods of one or more of our key employees due to military service. A disruption could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently benefit from local government programs as well as international programs and local tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced. We have received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (“OCS”) for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the provisions of The Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, referred to as the “Research and Development Law”. Pursuant to our current arrangement with the OCS, the OCS finances up to 20% of our research and development expenses by reimbursing us for up to 66% of the approved expenses related to our generic research and development projects. In addition, we obtain other grants from the OCS to partially fund certain other research and development projects. These programs currently restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. The Research and Development Law and related regulations permit the OCS to approve the transfer of manufacturing rights outside Israel subject to approval of the research committee and in exchange for the payment of higher royalties, for royalty-bearing programs. As of 2012, we are in the process of entering into a new royalty-bearing program arrangement with the OCS under new terms which are currently being evaluated and discussed with the OCS. Under these programs we need to comply with certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay additional amounts with respect to the grants received under these programs. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs and potential tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 20 In addition, we have been granted “Approved Enterprise” status under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (the “Investment Law”) for our production facilities in Israel. Such status enables us to obtain certain tax relief for a definitive period upon compliance with the Investment Law regulations. On April 1, 2005, an amendment to the Investment Law came into effect which significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The amendment revised the criteria for investments qualified to receive tax benefits. An eligible investment program under the amendment will qualify for benefits as a “Privileged Enterprise” (rather than the previous terminology of Approved Enterprise). Among other things, the amendment provides tax benefits to both local and foreign investors and simplifies the approval process. However, the amendment provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval granted prior to December 31, 2004 will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. We believe that we are currently in compliance with these requirements. However, if we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to pay increased taxes in the future. We also received grants from the European Union, Romania and Spain for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in those countries through various European programs. Under these programs we need to comply with certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay additional amounts with respect to the grants received under these programs. If the European Union, the Government of Spain and/or the Government of Romania discontinues or modifies these programs and potential tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are adversely affected by the devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the New Israeli Shekel and could be adversely affected by the rate of inflation in Israel. Substantially all of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our expenses, primarily salaries, building leases and related personnel expenses is currently incurred in NIS, and we anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. As a result, inflation in Israel and/or the devaluation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the NIS has and may continue to have the effect of increasing the cost in U.S. dollars of these expenses; hence, our dollar-measured results of operations are and may continue to be adversely affected, though, the inflation in Israel has been moderate in recent years. In order to manage the risks imposed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, from time to time we enter into currency forward contracts and put and call options to hedge some of our foreign currency exposure. We can provide no assurance that our hedging arrangements will be effective. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar may cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. 21 Provisions of Israeli law and our Articles of Association may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Our Articles of Association contain certain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, including a classified board of directors. In addition, the Israeli Companies Law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers and mergers, and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. These provisions of Israeli law could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders, and may limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential acquisition transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce U.S. judgments against our directors and officers in Israel or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Our executive officers and a majority of our directors are not residents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to obtain a judgment in the United States or collect or get an Israeli court to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. Furthermore, it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities laws claims in original actions instituted in Israel. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose shares are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we are permitted to follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of certain requirements of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. We do not comply with the NASDAQ requirement that we obtain shareholder approval for certain dilutive events, such as for the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans. Instead, we follow Israeli law and practice in accordance with which the establishment or amendment of certain equity based compensation plans is approved by our board of directors. As a foreign private issuer listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we may also follow home country practice with regard to, among other things, executive officer compensation, director nomination, composition of the board of directors and quorum at shareholders’ meetings. In addition, we may follow our home country law, instead of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, which require that we obtain shareholder approval for an issuance that will result in a change of control of the company, certain transactions other than a public offering involving issuances of a 20% or more interest in the company and certain acquisitions of the stock or assets of another company. Accordingly, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protection as provided under NASDAQ’s corporate governance rules. 22 