Item 1A: Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS A number of the matters and subject areas discussed in this Form 10-K are forward-looking in nature. The discussion of such matters and subject areas is qualified by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations generally; these expectations may differ materially from SMTC’s actual future experience involving any one or more of such matters and subject areas. SMTC cautions readers that all statements other than statements of historical facts included in this annual report on Form 10-K regarding SMTC’s financial position 12 and business strategy may constitute forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are based upon estimates and assumptions made by SMTC’s management, which although believed to be reasonable, are inherently uncertain. Therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on such estimates and statements. No assurance can be given that any of such estimates or statements will be realized, and it is likely that actual results will differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include: (1) increased competition; (2) increased costs; (3) the inability to implement our business plan and maintain covenant compliance under our credit agreements; (4) the loss or retirement of key members of management; (5) increases in SMTC’s cost of borrowings or lack of availability of additional debt or equity capital on terms considered reasonable by management; (6) adverse state, federal or foreign legislation or regulation or adverse determinations by regulators; (7) changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which SMTC may compete and fluctuations in demand in the electronics industry; (8) the inability to manage inventory levels efficiently in light of changes in market conditions; (9) the inability to sustain historical margins as the industry develops; and (10) the loss of key customers or the inability to win new customers. SMTC has attempted to identify certain of the factors that it currently believes may cause actual future experiences to differ from SMTC’s current expectations regarding the relevant matter or subject area. In addition to the items specifically discussed in the foregoing, SMTC’s business and results of operations are subject to the risks and uncertainties described under the heading “Factors That May Affect Future Results” below. The operations and results of SMTC’s business may also be subject to the effect of other risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, items described from time to time in SMTC’s reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY We are exposed to general economic conditions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of unfavorable economic conditions, reduced capital spending and changes in our customers’ manufacturing requirements, our sales declined during fiscal years 2002 to 2005. In particular, sales to OEMs in the telecommunications and enterprise computing and networking industries worldwide were impacted. If general economic conditions worsen or fail to continue to improve, we may experience a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. A majority of our revenue comes from a small number of customers; if we lose any of our larger customers, our revenue could decline significantly. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic marketplace in which current and prospective customers often seek to lower their costs through a competitive bidding process among EMS providers. This process creates an opportunity to increase revenue to the extent we are successful in the bidding process, however, there is also the potential for revenue decline to the extent we are unsuccessful in the process. Furthermore, even if we are successful, there is the potential for our margins to decrease. Our largest three customers were EMC², Ingenico and Mars Electronics, which represented approximately 21.3%, 17.7% and 10.7%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal year 2005. Our top ten largest customers (including EMC², Ingenico and Mars Electronics) collectively represented approximately 82.9% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2005. We expect to continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenue. In addition to having a limited number of customers, we manufacture a limited number of products for each of our customers. If we lose any of our largest customers or any product line manufactured for one of our largest customers, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenue. Also, the insolvency of one or more of our largest customers or the inability of one or more of our largest customers to pay for its orders could decrease revenue. As many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in net revenue can decrease our profit margins and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Our industry is very competitive and we may not be successful if we fail to compete effectively. The electronics manufacturing services (EMS) industry is highly competitive. We compete against numerous domestic and foreign EMS providers including Celestica Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Sanmina-SCI, Inc., Solectron Corporation, Benchmark Electronics Inc., Pemstar Inc. and Plexus Corp. In addition, we may in the future encounter competition from other large electronics manufacturers that are selling, or may begin to sell, electronics manufacturing services. Many of our competitors have international operations, and some have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources and lower cost structures than us. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of current and potential customers, which are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally versus the advantages of using external manufacturers. We may experience variability in our operating results, which could negatively impact the price of our shares. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated in the past. The reasons for these fluctuations may similarly affect us in the future. Prospective investors should not rely on results of operations in any past period to indicate what our results will be for any future period. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of many factors, including: • variations in the timing and volume of customer orders relative to our manufacturing capacity; • variations in the timing of shipments of products to customers; • introduction and market acceptance of our customers’ new products; • changes in demand for our customers’ existing products; • the accuracy of our customers’ forecasts of future production requirements; • effectiveness in managing our manufacturing processes and inventory levels; • changes in competitive and economic conditions generally or in our customers’ markets; • willingness of suppliers to supply the Company on normal credit terms; and • changes in the cost or availability of components or skilled labor. In addition, most of our customers typically do not commit to firm production schedules more than 30 to 90 days in advance. Accordingly, we cannot forecast the level of customer orders with certainty. This makes it difficult to schedule production to maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. In the past, we have been required to increase staffing, purchase materials and incur other expenses to meet the anticipated demand of our customers. Sometimes anticipated orders from certain customers have failed to materialize, and at times delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes in a customer’s business needs. Any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from our larger customers could cause our revenue to decline significantly. In addition, as many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can decrease our gross margins and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. On other occasions, customers have required rapid and unexpected increases in production, which have placed burdens on our manufacturing capacity and adversely affected costs. Any of these factors or a combination of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the electronics industry, which produces technologically advanced products with short life cycles. Many of our customers are in the electronics industry, which is characterized by intense competition, short product life-cycles and significant fluctuations in product demand. In addition, the electronics industry is 14 generally subject to rapid technological change and product obsolescence. If our customers are unable to create products that keep pace with the changing technological environment, their products could become obsolete and the demand for our services could significantly decline. Our success is largely dependent on the success achieved by our customers in developing and marketing their products. Furthermore, this industry is subject to economic cycles and has in the past experienced downturns. A continued recession or a downturn in the electronics industry would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortage or price fluctuation in component parts specified by our customers could delay product shipment and affect our profitability. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from “turnkey” manufacturing. In turnkey manufacturing, we provide both the materials and the manufacturing services. If we fail to manage our inventory effectively, we may bear the risk of fluctuations in materials costs, scrap and excess inventory, all of which can have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to forecast our future inventory requirements based upon the anticipated demands of our customers. Inaccuracies in making these forecasts or estimates could result in a shortage or an excess of materials. In addition, delays, cancellations or reductions of orders by our customers could result in an excess of materials. A shortage of materials could lengthen production schedules and increase costs. An excess of materials may increase the costs of maintaining inventory and may increase the risk of inventory obsolescence, both of which may increase expenses and decrease profit margins and operating income. Many of the products we manufacture require one or more components that we order from sole-source suppliers. Supply shortages for a particular component can delay productions of all products using that component or cause cost increases in the services we provide. In addition, in the past, some of the materials we use, such as memory and logic devices, have been subject to industry-wide shortages. As a result, suppliers allocate available quantities among their customers, and we have not been able to obtain all of the materials required. Our inability to obtain these materials could slow production or assembly, delay shipments to our customers, increase costs and reduce operating income. Also, we may bear the risk of periodic component price increases. Accordingly, some component price increases could increase costs and reduce operating income. Also we rely on a variety of common carriers for materials transportation, and we route materials through various world ports. A work stoppage, strike or shutdown of a major port or airport could result in manufacturing and shipping delays or expediting charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced significant retrenchment in a short period of time. In 2001 we implemented an operational restructuring plan that called for significant retrenchment. We closed our Denver and Haverhill facilities and resized operations in Mexico and Ireland in an effort to reduce our cost structure. In February, 2002 the main customer of our Cork, Ireland facility was placed into administration as part of a financial restructuring. As a result, on March 19, 2002, we announced that we were closing our Cork, Ireland facility and that we were taking steps to place the subsidiary that operates that facility in voluntary administration and in 2003, we closed our sites in Austin, Texas, Donegal, Ireland and Charlotte, North Carolina and sold our manufacturing operations in Appleton, Wisconsin. In late 2003, we developed a broad-based transformation plan designed to restructure, refinance and restore profitability and growth. This plan involved operational optimization programs, refinancing, stockholder stabilization initiatives, strategy development and organizational renewal. Through 2004 we initiated and executed on the components of the plan. While we have reduced capacity and costs and refinanced our balance sheet, retrenchment has caused strain on our infrastructure, including our managerial, technical and other resources. 15 If we are unable to respond to rapidly changing technology and process development, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing process development. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to develop and market services that meet changing customer needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. In addition, the EMS industry could in the future encounter competition from new or revised technologies that render existing technology less competitive or obsolete or that reduce the demand for our services. There can be no assurance that we will effectively respond to the technological requirements of the changing market. To the extent we determine that new technologies and equipment are required to remain competitive, the development, acquisition and implementation of such technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. There can be no assurance that capital will be available for these purposes in the future or that investments in new technologies will result in commercially viable technological processes. Our business will suffer if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and skilled employees. Our business depends on our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain skilled employees, particularly executive management, engineering and sales personnel. Recruiting personnel in our industry is highly competitive. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan depends in part on our ability to attract and retain management and existing employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain executive officers and key personnel or attract qualified management in the future. In connection with our restructuring, we significantly reduced our workforce. If we receive a significant volume of new orders, we may have difficulty recruiting skilled workers back into our workforce to respond to such orders and accordingly may experience delays that could adversely effect our ability to meet customers’ delivery schedules. Risks particular to our international manufacturing operations could adversely affect our overall results. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • fluctuations in the value of currencies and high levels of inflation; • longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting amounts receivable; • unexpected changes in and the burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws; • political and economic instability; • increases in duties and taxation; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • trade restrictions; and • dependence on key customers. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws, which expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, provincial, local and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations, which govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because we use metals and other hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. We may be liable under environmental laws for the cost of cleaning up properties we own or operate if they are or become contaminated by the release of hazardous materials, regardless of whether we caused such release. In addition we, along with any other person who arranges for the disposal of our wastes, may be liable for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, if such sites become contaminated, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws. In the event of a contamination or violation of environmental laws, we could be held liable for damages including fines, penalties and the costs of remedial actions and could also be subject to revocation of our discharge permits. Any 16 such revocations could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby having a material adverse effect on our operations. Environmental laws could also become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the electronics industry will become subject to the European Union’s Restrictions of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE directives, which take effect during 2006. Parallel initiatives are being proposed in other jurisdictions, including several states in the United States and the People’s Republic of China. RoHS prohibits the use of lead, mercury and certain other specified substances in electronics products and WEEE requires industry OEMs to assume responsibility for the collection, recycling and management of waste electronic products and components. We are in the process of making our manufacturing process RoHs compliant. In the case of WEEE, the compliance responsibility rests primarily with OEMs rather than with EMS companies. However, OEMs may turn to EMS companies for assistance in meeting their WEEE obligations. In the event we are not able to make our manufacturing obligations fully RoHS compliant by the applicable deadlines, we could be unable to certify compliance to our customers and could incur substantial costs, including fines and penalties, as well as liability to our customers. In addition, we are dependent on our supply chain to achieve a successful transition without any interruption and we may incur costs related to inventories containing restricted substances that are not consumed by the RoHS effective dates. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and severely limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. At December 31, 2005, we had $2.7 million of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities with Wachovia Capital Finance of Canada (as successor to Congress Financial Corporation) and its affiliates (“Wachovia”), which we refer to in this report as the “Wachovia Credit Facility.” The amount of indebtedness outstanding under the Wachovia Credit Facility fluctuates based on our operations. On December 31, 2005, we also had $24.9 million of second lien, subordinated term indebtedness outstanding under our restructured, pre-existing credit facility, which we refer to in this report as the “Pre-existing Facility” (and together with the Wachovia Credit Facility, the “Credit Facilities”), with our pre-existing lenders, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., The Bank of Nova Scotia, General Electric Capital Corporation, IBM Credit Corporation, Silver Point Capital L.P., Royal Bank of Canada, Comerica Bank, AMMC CDO I Limited and AMMC CDO II Limited, which we refer to in this report as the “Pre-existing Lenders.” Our debt, whether under our Wachovia Credit Facility or Pre-existing Facility, could have adverse consequences for our business, including: • We will be more vulnerable to adverse general economic conditions. • We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to repayment of debt, limiting the availability of cash for other purposes. • We may have difficulty obtaining financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes. • We may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry. • We could be limited by restrictive covenants and the borrowing base formula in our credit arrangements in our borrowing of additional funds. • We may fail to comply with covenants under which we borrowed our indebtedness, including the financial covenant under our Credit Facilities, which as of March 31, 2006 requires us to meet a consolidated EBITDA target on a rolling four quarter basis that is higher than the EBITDA targets we were previously required to meet. Our failure to comply with covenants could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs and is not cured or waived, it could result in all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, becoming immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such amounts, our lenders could proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure that 17 indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will maintain compliance with the covenants under our Credit Facilities. • Our Wachovia Credit Facility contains subjective acceleration clauses. There can be no assurance that the lender will not exercise their rights to accelerate repayment under the terms of the agreement. There can be no assurance that our leverage and such restrictions will not materially adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. In addition, our ability to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness to meet our financial and restrictive covenants and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, certain of which are beyond our control, as well as the availability of revolving credit borrowings under the Wachovia Credit Facility or successor facilities. We face significant restrictions on our ability to operate under the terms of our Credit Facilities. The terms of our Credit Facilities generally restrict, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, complete acquisitions, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, consummate certain asset sales, make capital expenditures, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, merge, consolidate or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of our assets (other than in the ordinary course of business). We are also required to maintain specified EBITDA (earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization) levels under the Credit Facilities. The Wachovia Credit Facility also has a borrowing base formula that limits our ability to borrow based on the characteristics of our accounts receivable and inventory. Further, Wachovia has discretion to reduce availability under the Wachovia Credit Facility. If we are not able to comply with these covenants and requirements, customers may lose confidence in us and reduce or eliminate their orders with us which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are pledged as security under our Credit Facilities. Provisions in our charter documents and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of us even though some stockholders might consider such a development favorable. Provisions in our charter, by-laws and certain provisions under Delaware law may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management that stockholders consider favorable or beneficial. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our shares could suffer. The Company’s ability to use existing net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes a limitation on a corporation’s use of net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards following an “ownership change”. Whether or not the Recapitalization Transaction resulted in an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 depends upon whether the exchangeable shares of SMTC Canada are treated as shares of the Company under U.S. tax principles. Because the tax law governing the exchangeable shares is unclear, it is uncertain whether Section 382 will apply to the Recapitalization Transaction. If deemed applicable, Section 382 would limit the amount of NOLs available to offset taxable income in the post-ownership change period and would preclude the full utilization of the Company’s NOLs. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had total net operating loss carryforwards (both U.S. and Canadian) of approximately $77.6 million. 18 The issuance of additional authorized shares of common stock may dilute the voting power and equity interest of present stockholders and may prevent a hostile takeover of the Company. Shares of authorized but unissued common stock may be issued from time to time by our Board of Directors without further stockholder action unless such action is required by Delaware law, under which the Company is incorporated, our charter, or the rules of the Nasdaq National Market System. Additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock might be used in the context of a defense against or response to possible or threatened hostile takeovers. It is not possible to predict in advance whether the issuance of additional shares will have a dilutive effect on earnings per share as it depends on the specific events associated with a particular transaction. Certain differences may exist between the trading market of our common stock and the trading market for the exchangeable shares of SMTC Canada Although the exchangeable shares of SMTC Canada are intended to be functionally and economically equivalent to shares of our common stock, there can be no assurance that the market price of the exchangeable shares will be identical, or even similar, to the market price of our common stock. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 