ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Overall Business Risks The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. Since December 2007, the United States has been in a recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to declines in revenues, the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. Unemployment has increased significantly. Overall, during 2008, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. The business environment in the markets in which the Company operates has been less adverse than in the United States generally but continues to deteriorate. It is expected that the business environment in the Company’s markets, the United States and worldwide will continue to weaken for the near future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing significantly in the equity of banking organizations, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. - 23 - Table of Contents Lending Continued and Prolonged Deterioration in the Housing Sector and Related Markets and the Economy May Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. Residential real estate markets continued to decline throughout 2008. Economic measures declined at an accelerating rate, leading to a 6.2% preliminary estimated annualized decline in the U.S. GDP in the fourth quarter. Unemployment rose as economic conditions deteriorated. We do not expect improvement in the economy or in real estate and financial market conditions in the near future. A worsening of these negative conditions could adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to service their debt, along with the value and liquidity of collateral and other forms of loan support. The quality and value of our investment securities may also be impacted. Emergency government measures may affect our rights as creditors and owners of securities. Adverse developments could affect our net interest income, charge-offs, loan loss provision, asset and goodwill valuations, and our prospects for growth. Regulatory promulgations could affect our operations and financial condition. Our Emphasis on Commercial Lending May Expose Us to Increased Lending Risks, Which Could Hurt Our Profits. Commercial loans are historically more sensitive to economic downturns. Such sensitivity includes potentially higher default rates and possible reduction of collateral values. Commercial lending involves larger loan sizes and larger relationship exposures, which can have a greater impact on profits in the event of adverse loan performance. Commercial lending involves more development financing, which is dependent on the future success of new operations. Residential construction loans depend significantly on the residential real estate and lending markets for the repayment of these loans. Commercial loans also include lending to nonprofit organizations which in some cases are particularly sensitive to negative economic events. Our Allowance for Loan Losses May Prove to be Insufficient to Absorb Losses in Our Loan Portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The Company has seen a significant increase in the level of potential problem loans and other loans with higher than normal risk. The Company expects to receive more frequent requests from borrowers to modify residential mortgage and consumer loans. The related accounting measurements related to impairment and the loan loss allowance require significant estimates which are subject to uncertainty and changes relating to new information and changing circumstances. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. State and federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. - 24 - Table of Contents Operating A Continuing Downturn in the Local Economy or Local Real Estate Values Could Hurt Our Profits. Our success depends to a significant extent upon economic conditions in our market areas. The demand for our products and services, and our ability to maintain satisfactory pricing margins, may be affected by market conditions. Adverse economic conditions in our market areas could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Our Geographic Expansion and Growth, If Not Successful, Could Negatively Impact Earnings. We plan to achieve significant growth both organically and through acquisitions. We have recently expanded into new geographic markets and anticipate that we will expand into additional new geographic markets as we expand as a regional bank. The success of this expansion depends on our ability to continue to maintain and develop an infrastructure appropriate to support such growth. Also, our success depends on the acceptance by customers of us and our services in these new markets and, in the case of expansion through acquisitions, our success depends on many factors, including the long-term retention of key personnel and acquired customer relationships. The profitability of our expansion strategy also depends on whether the income we generate in the new markets will offset the increased expenses of operating a larger entity with increased personnel, more branch locations and additional product offerings. Competition From Financial Institutions and Other Financial Service Providers May Adversely Affect Our Growth and Profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. Due to the interventions of the federal government, some of the institutions that we compete with are receiving substantial federal financial support which may not be available to our Company. Many institutions have been allowed to convert to banking charters and to offer insured deposits for the first time. The federal government has guaranteed money market funds which traditionally compete with bank deposits. The federal government has offered significant guarantees of new debt issuances to some of the Company’s competitors to help them fund their operations. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are now in federal receivership and may operate directly as a competitor in some lending markets in the future. Emergency measures designed to support some of the Company’s competitors may provide no advantage to the Company or place it at a disadvantage. Emergency changes in deposit insurance, financial market regulation, bank regulation, and policy of the Federal Home Loan Bank system may all affect the competitive environment for the Company and other market participants. The Terms of Our Capital May Change and Our Access to Capital Markets and Financial Markets May Not Be Available When It Is Needed. The Company has participated in the U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program. The terms of this program are subject to changes by Congress and the burden of the program is affected by inspections and program management. Congress continues to add new terms to this program and the Treasury’s involvement as a partner is evolving. Uncertainty about the direction of this program and adverse changes in this program could affect the Company’s ability to operate and generate earnings, including the impact of dividend payments and the impact of compensation and operating restrictions. The possible nationalization of portions of the U.S. financial system and/or failures or restructurings of major market participants may create unpredictable and adverse changes in the availability of capital and other financial resources. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Regulatory capital requirements and their impact on the Company may change. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support our operations and continued growth. Our ability to raise capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our operations and our ability to execute our strategic plan, which includes further expanding our operations through internal growth and acquisitions. - 25 - Table of Contents We are Subject to Security and Operational Risks Relating to Our Use of Technology that Could Damage Our Reputation and Our Business. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on industry standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. We utilize third part core banking software and for some systems we outsource our data processing to a third party. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third parties, it could significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. Due to the recession, there may be a rising risk of fraud or illegal acts. Disaster and disaster recovery risks could affect our ability to operate and our reputation. Conditions in Insurance Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings. Revenue levels from our insurance segment could be negatively impacted by the fluctuating premiums in the insurance market caused by capacity constraints and losses due to natural disasters. Premium levels and commission structures may be affected by changes in the financial condition of insurers due to the financial and economic downturn. Other factors that affect our insurance revenue are profitability and growth of our clients, continued development of new products and services, as well as our access to markets and the impact of state insurance regulations. Liquidity Our Wholesale Funding Sources May Prove Insufficient to Replace Deposits at Maturity and Support Our Operations and Future Growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we may become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, and liquidity resources at the holding company. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable costs. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. These consumer preferences may cause us to be forced to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Our Ability to Service Our Debt, Pay Dividends and Otherwise Pay Our Obligations as They Come Due Is Substantially Dependent on Capital Distributions from Berkshire Bank, and These Distributions Are Subject to Regulatory Limits and Other Restrictions. While the Company maintained a high level of cash balances at year-end 2008, those balances may decrease due to changes in the Company’s capital structure, possible acquisitions, and possible further investments in the Bank. Over the long term, a substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Berkshire Bank. The availability of dividends from Berkshire Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Berkshire Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. If Berkshire Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Berkshire Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. - 26 - Table of Contents Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Liquidity. In the past year, reduced confidence by and between financial institutions, and significant declines in the values of mortgage-backed securities and derivative securities by financial institutions, government sponsored entities, and major commercial and investment banks have led to decreased liquidity in financial markets among borrowers, lenders, and depositors, as well as disruption and extreme volatility in the capital and credit markets and the failure of some entities in the financial sector. As a result, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. Interest Rates Changes in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Net interest income is our largest source of income. Changes in interest rates can affect the level of net interest income. The Company’s interest rate sensitivity is discussed in more detail in Item 7A of this report. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in interest rates can also affect the demand for our products and services, and the supply conditions in the U.S. financial and capital markets. Changes in the level of interest rates may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. Securities Market Values Continued or Further Declines in the Value of Certain Investment Securities Could Require Write-Downs, Which Would Reduce Our Earnings. The unrealized losses on the investment securities portfolio are due to an increase in credit spreads and liquidity issues in the marketplace. We have concluded these unrealized losses are temporary in nature since they are not related to the underlying credit quality of the issuers, and we have the intent and ability to hold these investments for a time necessary to recover our cost or stated maturity (at which time, full payment is expected). However, a continued decline in the value of these securities or other factors could result in an other-than-temporary impairment write-down which would reduce our earnings. Some of the Bank’s securities are locally originated economic development bonds to nonprofit organizations. These securities could become impaired due to economic and real estate market conditions which also affect loan risk. If Dividends Paid On Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston Continue to be Suspended, or If Our Investment is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired or as Permanently Impaired, Our Earnings and/or Stockholders’ Equity Could Decrease. We own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBB’s advance program. There is no market for our FHLBB common stock. On February 26, 2009, the FHLBB reported a net annual loss of $73.2 million. The loss was primarily due to a other-than-temporary impairment charge of $339.1 million on its private-label mortgage backed securities portfolio. The FHLBB believes that it will recover a substantial portion of the impairment losses over time and expects to hold the securities until maturity. As a result of the loss, the FHLBB also announced that the dividend paid on its common stock has been suspended indefinitely and that the payment of any dividend in 2009 is unlikely. The continued suspension of the dividend will decrease our income. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBB, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Consequently, we believe that there is a risk that our investment in FHLBB common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment charge. We have been notified by the FHLBB that future dividend levels may be different from past levels, and a reduction or elimination of this dividend would reduce our earnings. - 27 - Table of Contents Regulatory Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives May Not Stabilize the Banking System. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending, funding practices, and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be more active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Actions taken to date, as well as potential actions, may not have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes will increase our Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes, along with negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Future Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Perceived Financial and Market Problems Could Impair Our Rights Against Borrowers. There have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Our Expenses Will Increase As A Result Of Increases in FDIC Insurance Premiums. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) imposes an assessment against financial institutions for deposit insurance. This assessment is based on the risk category of the institution and currently ranges from 5 to 43 basis points of the institution’s deposits. On December 22, 2008, the FDIC published a final rule raising the current deposit insurance assessment rates uniformly for all institutions by seven basis points (to a range from 12 to 50 basis points) for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC also expects to issue a final rule early in 2009, to be effective April 1, 2009, to change the way that the FDIC calculates federal deposit insurance assessment rates beginning in the second quarter of 2009. For more information on FDIC assessments, see “Regulation and Supervision—Insurance of Deposit Accounts”. Changes In Federal Statutes May Adversely Affect the Terms of our Capital Purchase Program Letter Agreement with the U.S. Treasury. The Treasury may amend any provision of the Agreement to comply with changes to federal statutes. Any change in such Agreement could have a material impact on us and our operations. Future federal statutory changes may adversely affect the terms of the Capital Purchase Program and our financial condition. Any retroactive restrictions which may adversely affect our ability to comply with the terms of the Agreement or effectively manage our business or our ability to repay the preferred stock. Current terms of the agreement require approval by bank regulators before the stock may be repaid. - 28 - Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law, as well as state and federal banking regulations, could delay or prevent a takeover of us by a third party. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the corporate law of the State of Delaware, and state and federal regulations could delay, defer or prevent a third party from acquiring us, despite the possible benefit to our stockholders, or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. These provisions include: limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations; the election of directors to staggered terms of three years; and advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors and for proposing matters that stockholders may act on at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Delaware laws, including one that prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may discourage potential takeover attempts, discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over market price or adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors other than the candidates nominated by our Board. Goodwill Our Acquisitions Have Resulted in Significant Goodwill, Which if it Becomes Impaired Would be Required to be Written Down, Which Would Negatively Impact Earnings. We acquired Factory Point Bancorp, Inc. in 2007 and Woronoco Bancorp in 2005 and have purchased insurance and financial planning businesses in the last two years, including the five insurance agencies we acquired on October 31, 2006. We will pursue additional opportunities for acquisitions in the future, including acquisitions in adjacent states. The success of acquisitions depends on many factors, including the long term retention of key personnel and acquired customer relationships. The initial recording and subsequent impairment testing of goodwill and other intangible assets requires subjective judgments about the estimates of the fair value of assets acquired. Factors that may significantly affect the estimates include specific industry or market sector conditions, changes in revenue growth trends, customer behavior, competitive forces, cost structures and changes in discount rates. It is possible that future impairment testing could result in an impairment of the value of goodwill or intangible assets, or both. If we determine impairment exists at a given point in time, our earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and core deposit intangible assets have no impact on our tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. These are non-GAAP financial measures. They are not a substitute for GAAP measures and should only be considered in conjunction with the Company’s GAAP financial information. Trading The Trading History of Our Common stock is Characterized by Low Trading Volume. The Value of Your Investment May be Subject to Sudden Decreases Due to the Volatility of the Price of our Common Stock. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The average daily trading volume of our common stock during 2008 was approximately 54,000 shares. The level of interest and trading in our stock depends on many factors beyond our control. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in interest rates; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; • press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; • future sales of our common stock; • changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and • other developments affecting our competitors or us. - 29 - Table of Contents These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent you from selling your common stock at the price you desire. In addition, the stock markets, from time to time, experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our trading performance. In the past, stockholders sometimes have brought securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We could be the target of similar litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 