D. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed due to any of the following risks, among others. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our share price may decline. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. While we had a net profit in 2004, we incurred operating losses and net losses in 2003 and 2002. In 2004, our operating loss and net income were approximately $(3.0) million and $0.9 million, respectively. In 2003, our operating loss and net loss were approximately $(15.9) million and $(11.8) million, respectively. In 2002, our operating loss and net loss were approximately $(27.3) million and $(20.7) million, respectively. Although we were profitable in 2004, we may incur operating and net losses again in the future. Losses or a decrease in our net income could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value and market price of our ordinary shares. Adverse conditions in the telecommunications industry and in the telecommunications equipment market may decrease demand for our products and may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems are used by telecom carriers and service providers. The slowdown in the telecommunications industry from 2001 through the beginning of 2003 curtailed the ability of existing and prospective carriers and service providers to finance purchases of products such as ours. In addition some carriers and service providers using wireless broadband are emerging companies with unproven business models. During 2003 and 2004, we perceived an improvement in the general market for telecommunications equipment. However, due to the past volatility of the market, we cannot predict the duration or extent of any recovery in this market or the impact it may have on our revenues or results of operations. Market conditions could continue to cause our customers and potential customers to be conservative in their spending. The markets that we participate in may not grow as we expect or at all. While our goal is to increase our sales by expanding the number of carrier customers that we address, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in doing so. The number of carriers and service providers who are our potential customers is relatively small and may not grow because of the limited number of licenses granted in each country and the substantial comparative capital requirements involved in establishing networks. 3 If we do not maintain or increase our share of the wireless broadband equipment and specialized cellular network markets, our business will suffer. In addition new markets we attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets. In order to maintain or increase our share of the markets we participate in, we must: o sustain our attained technology position in designing, developing, and manufacturing wireless broadband and specialized cellular network products; o develop and cultivate additional sales channels, including original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, agreements or other strategic arrangements with leading manufacturers of access equipment to market our wireless broadband products to prospective customers, such as local exchange carriers, cellular operators, Internet and application service providers and local telephone companies; and o effectively establish and support relationships with customers, including local exchange carriers, Internet and application service providers, public fixed or mobile telephone service providers and private network operators sometimes offered on special commercial terms. Our efforts in these markets may not succeed. In addition the mobile market and any future markets that we may attempt to penetrate may not become substantial commercial markets or may not evolve in a manner that will enable our products to achieve market acceptance. If customers refrain from buying our current proprietary products in order to wait for our standards-compliant, WiMAX certified products, our business will suffer. WiMAX certification relates to two industry standards, IEEE 802.16d and 802.16e. We may suffer temporarily from the market transition to WiMAX certified products as customers may slow their purchases of our proprietary technology in order to wait for WiMAX certified products. In addition, the introduction of Wimax certified products may not increase the demand for wireless broadband solutions and this may adversely affect our results of operations. Our standards-compliant, WiMAX ready products, may not receive the certification that we expect, which may affect our future business. We rely on the recently developed WiMAX technology. Products based on this technology may not receive certification in the time frame we expect, or at all, and may therefore not achieve the wide acceptance that we are seeking. Market changes could render this technology obsolete or subject to intense competition by alternative technologies. This may harm the sales of our standards compliant products, and consequently, our results of operations. If we lose large customers we may not succeed in replacing them and our revenues will be adversely affected. In 2002, one of our customers was responsible for 11.4% of our 2002 sales and another was responsible for 10.3% of our sales. In 2003, 13.9% of our sales were to a Latin American operator, and in 2004, this operator accounted for 30.6% of our sales If revenues from these customers decline, or we lose these large customers, we may not be successful in replacing them on a timely basis, or at all, and our revenues may be adversely affected. Our products have long and unpredictable sales cycles. This could adversely impact our revenues and net income. The sales cycle for our licensed band and cellular mobile products encompasses significant technical evaluation and testing by each potential purchaser and a commitment of significant cash and other resources. The sales cycle can extend for as long as one year from initial contact with a carrier to receipt of a purchase order. This time frame may be extended due to, among other reasons, a carrier's need to obtain financing to purchase systems incorporating our products, the regulatory authorization of competition in local services, delays in the licensing of spectrum for these services and other regulatory hurdles. As a result of the length of this sales cycle, revenues from our products may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and fail to correspond with associated expenses, which are largely based on anticipated revenues. In addition, the 4 delays inherent in the sales cycle of our products raise additional risks of customers canceling or changing their product plans. Our revenues will be adversely affected if a significant customer, or significant potential customer, reduces, delays or cancels orders during the sales cycle of the products or chooses not to deploy networks incorporating our products. Any such fluctuation in revenue or cancellation of orders could affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our business is dependent upon the success of distributors who are under no obligation to purchase our products. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to independent distributors. These distributors then resell the products to others, who further resell those products to end-users. The three largest distributors of our products accounted for a total of approximately 20.9% of our sales in 2002, 13.1% of our sales in 2003, and less than 10% of our sales in 2004. If we terminate or lose any of these distributors, we may not be successful in replacing them on a timely basis, or at all. Any changes in the distribution and sales channels of our products, particularly the loss of a major distributor or our inability to establish effective distribution and sales channels for new products will impact our ability to sell our products and result in a loss of revenues. We are dependent upon the acceptance of our products by the market through our distributors' efforts in marketing and sales. In some cases, arrangements with our distributors do not prevent them from selling competitive products and those arrangements do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. These distributors may not give a high priority to marketing and supporting our products. Changes in the financial condition, business or marketing strategies of these distributors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these changes could occur suddenly and rapidly. Our business depends in part on original equipment manufacturers and systems integrators. The success of the sales of our wireless broadband products currently depends in part on existing relationships with OEMs or other system integrators. A portion of our systems is sold to and through telecommunications systems integrators for integration into their systems, rather than directly to carriers. The sale of our wireless broadband products depends in part on the OEMs' and systems integrators' active marketing and sales efforts as well as the quality of their integration efforts and post-sales support. Sales through the OEM and system integrator channels exposes this business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our wireless broadband products. We face the risk of termination of these relationships and the promotion of competing products or emphasis on alternative technologies by these OEMs and systems integrators. In addition, our efforts to increase sales may suffer from the lack of brand visibility resulting from OEMs' and systems integrators' integration of these products into more comprehensive systems. If any of these risks materializes, we will need to develop alternative methods of marketing these products. Until we do so, sales of our wireless broadband products may decline. We are also dependent upon the success of our direct sales efforts. Direct sales accounted for a total of approximately 14.5% of our sales in 2002, 28.4% of our sales in 2003, and 52% of our sales in 2004. Direct sales customers are not under any obligation to purchase our products. Some of these customers do not have long business histories and have encountered, and may continue to encounter, financial difficulty, including difficulty in obtaining credit to purchase our products. These customers typically purchase our products on a project-by-project basis, so that continuity of purchases by these customers is not assured. We do not necessarily retain sales personnel with carrier sales expertise, and may face difficulty locating and retaining carrier customers who purchase directly. If we are unable to effectively continue our direct sales efforts of our products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Any such change could occur suddenly and rapidly. We may not successfully integrate the business operations of interWAVE. Our failure to do so might harm our results of operations and share price. In December 2004, we completed the acquisition of interWAVE. The challenges of integrating the business operations of the companies include demonstrating to our customers that the acquisition will not result in an adverse change in business focus and persuading our personnel that the companies' respective business cultures are compatible, 5 and that we can overcome the differences in culture and time zones. To successfully integrate both companies' operations, we need to retain management, key employees and business partners of both companies and to gain the benefit of each company's strengths. If we are unable to effectively complete the integration of the two companies' operations, technologies and personnel in a timely and efficient manner, we will not realize the benefits we expect from the acquisition and our business, financial conditions and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Under the terms of our merger transaction with interWAVE Communications International Ltd., we are liable for interWAVE's pre merger liabilities. The merger of interWAVE with and into us in December 2004, resulted in our assuming all of the liabilities of interWAVE existing at the time of the merger. If such liabilities exceed the liabilities we are aware of and have provided for in our financial statements or if there are liabilities that we were not aware of at the time of the merger, this could have an adverse affect on us. We may engage in future acquisitions that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, and dilute our stockholders' equity. We have pursued, and will continue to pursue, growth opportunities through internal development and acquisition of complementary businesses, products and technologies. We are unable to predict whether or when any other prospective acquisition will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management's attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Further, once integrated, acquisitions may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional debt or equity financing. Future acquisitions by us could result in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our stock: o issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' percentages of ownership; o large one-time write-offs; o the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; o difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; o diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; o contractual disputes; o risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or only limited prior experience; and o potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations. Our failure to manage growth effectively could impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rapid growth, including our amalgamation with interWAVE, our acquisition of most of the assets and assumed liabilities of InnoWave, and our merger with Floware, has significantly strained our management, operational and financial resources. Any future growth including mergers and acquisitions may increase the strain on our management, operational and financial resources. If we do not succeed in managing future growth effectively, we may not be able to meet the demand, if any, for our products and we may lose sales or customers, harming our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 Rapid technological change may have an adverse affect on the market acceptance for our products. The markets for our products and the technologies utilized in the industry in which we operate evolve rapidly. We rely on key technologies, including wireless LAN, wireless packet data, orthogonal frequency division multiplexing, or OFDM, time division multiplexing, modem and radio technologies and other technologies, which we have been selling for several years, as well as the recently developed WiMAX technology and CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) or other 3G products. These technologies may be replaced with alternative technologies or may otherwise not achieve the wide acceptance that we are seeking. In particular, there is a substantial risk that the wireless broadband technologies underlying our products may not achieve market acceptance for use in access applications. Market changes could render our products and technologies obsolete or subject them to intense competition by alternative products or technologies or by improvements in existing products or technologies. For example, the wireless broadband equipment market may stop growing as a result of the deployment of alternative technologies, that are constantly improving, such as DSL, cable modem, fiber optic, coaxial cable, satellite systems, third generation cellular systems or otherwise. New or enhanced products developed by other companies may be technologically superior to our products, and limit our addressable market, or render our products obsolete. The success of our technology depends on the following factors, among others: o acceptance of new and innovative technologies; o acceptance of standards for wireless broadband products; o timely availability and maturity of technology from technology suppliers, such as Intel; o capacity to handle growing demands for faster transmission of increasing amounts of data and voice; o its cost-effectiveness and performance compared to other broadband technologies; o its reliability and security; o its suitability for a sufficient number of geographic regions; o the availability of sufficient frequencies and site locations for carriers to deploy and install products at commercially reasonable rates; and o safety and environmental concerns regarding wireless broadband transmissions. We may experience difficulties in the introduction of new or enhanced products, which could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses or delays in the launch of new or enhanced products. The development of new or enhanced products is a complex and uncertain process. We may experience design, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new products or product enhancements. The difficulties could result in reduced sales, unexpected expenses of delays in the launch of new or enhanced products, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our products are complex and may have errors or defects that are detected only after deployment in complex networks. Some of our products are highly complex and are designed to be deployed in complex networks like the cellular mobile products for example. Although our products are tested during manufacturing and prior to deployment, our customers may discover errors after the products have been fully deployed. If we are unable to fix errors or other problems that may be identified in full deployment, we could experience: o costs associated with the remediation of any problems; o loss of or delay in revenues; o loss of customers; o failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; 7 o diversion of deployment resources; o diversion of research and development resources to fix errors in the field; o increased service and warranty costs; o legal actions or demands for compensation by our customers; and o increased insurance costs. In addition, our products often are integrated with other network components. There may be incompatibilities between these components and our products that could significantly harm the service provider or its subscribers. Product problems in the field could require us to incur costs or divert resources to remedy the problems and subject us to liability for damages caused by the problems or delay in research and development projects because of the diversion of resources. These problems could also harm our reputation and competitive position in the industry. Existing and potential industry standards may have a negative impact on our business. We have developed and continue to develop our products with a view to compliance with existing standards and anticipated future standards. We expended, and intend to continue to expend, substantial resources in developing products and product features that are designed to conform to such standards. In addition, although we developed our products with a view to compliance with existing standards and anticipated compliance with future standards, we may not be able to introduce on a timely basis products that comply with industry standards. Certain standards on which we base our products and technology (such as IEEE 802.16e, GSM and CDM2000) may not continue to be or will not be broadly adopted which could significantly limit our market opportunity and harm our business. In addition, our focus on anticipated future standards, including the IEEE 802.16e standard, may lead to delays in introducing products designed for current standards. Our strategy of seeking to anticipate and comply with industry standards is subject to the following additional risks, among others: o the standards ultimately adopted by the industry may vary from those anticipated by us, causing our products (which were designed to meet anticipated standards) to fail to comply with established standards; o even if our products do comply with established standards, these standards are not mandatory and consumers may prefer to purchase products that do not comply with them or that comply with new or competing standards; and o product standardization may have the effect of lowering barriers to entry in the markets in which we seek to sell our products, by diminishing product differentiation and causing competition to be based upon criteria such as the relative size and marketing skills of competitors. We may have greater disadvantages in competing on the basis of these criteria than on the basis of product differentiation. These risks, among others, may harm our sales and, consequently, our results of operations. Standardization and increased competition may have an adverse effect on our gross margins. Standardization of product features may increase the number of competitive product offerings. Furthermore, our competitors may also attempt to influence the adoption of standards that are not compatible with our products. Standardization also results in lower average selling prices. Increased competition, direct and indirect, has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, reductions of average selling prices, shorter product life cycles, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share and, consequently, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Government regulation may increase our costs of doing business, limit our potential markets or require changes to our products that may be difficult and costly. Our business is premised on the availability of certain radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of each country and international treaties. Each country has different regulation and regulatory processes for wireless communications 8 equipment and uses of radio frequencies. In the United States, our products are subject to the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, rules and regulations. In other countries, our products are subject to national or regional radio authority rules and regulations. Current FCC regulations permit license-free operation in FCC-certified bands in the radio spectrum in the United States. In other countries the situation varies as to the spectrum, if any, that may be used without a license and as to the permitted purposes of such use. Some of our products operate in license-free bands, while others operate in licensed bands. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to significant change, the results and timing of which are uncertain. In many countries the unavailability of radio frequencies for two-way broadband communications has inhibited the growth of these networks. The process of establishing new regulations for wireless broadband frequencies and allocating these frequencies to operators is complex and lengthy. The regulation of frequency licensing began during 1999 in many countries in Europe and South America and continues in many countries in these and other regions. However, this frequency licensing regulation process may suffer from delays that may postpone the commercial deployment of products that operate in licensed bands in any country that experiences this delay. Our current customers that commercially deploy our licensed band products have already been granted appropriate frequency licenses for their network operation. In some cases, the continued validity of these licenses may be conditional on the licensee complying with various conditions. In addition to regulation of available frequencies, our products must conform to a variety of national and international regulations that require compliance with administrative and technical requirements as a condition to the operation of marketing or devices that emit radio frequency energy. These requirements were established, among other things, to avoid interference among users of radio frequencies and permit interconnection of equipment. The regulatory environment in which we sell our products subjects us to several risks, including the following: o Our customers may not be able to obtain sufficient frequencies for their planned uses of our wireless broadband products. o Failure by the regulatory authorities to allocate suitable and sufficient radio frequencies in a timely manner could deter potential customers from ordering our wireless broadband products. Also, licenses to use certain frequencies and other regulations may include terms which affect the desirability of using our products and the ability of our customers to grow. o If our products operate in the license-free bands, FCC rules and similar rules in other countries require operators of radio frequency devices, such as our products, to cease operation of a device if its operation causes interference with authorized users of the spectrum and to accept interference caused by other users. o If the use of our products interferes with authorized users, or if users of our products experience interference from other users, market acceptance of our products could be adversely affected. o Regulatory changes, including changes in the allocation of available frequency spectrum, may significantly impact our operations by rendering our current products obsolete or non-compliant, or by restricting the applications and markets served by our products. o Regulatory changes and restrictions imposed due to environmental concerns, such as restrictions imposed on the location of outdoor antennas. o We may not be able to comply with all applicable regulations in each of the countries where our products are sold and we may need to modify our products to meet local regulations. In addition, we are subject to export control laws and regulations with respect to all of our products and technology. We are subject to the risk that more stringent export control requirements could be imposed in the future on product classes that include products exported by us. We must be able to manage expenses and inventory risks associated with meeting the demand of our customers. To ensure that we are able to meet customer demand for our products, we place orders with our subcontractors and suppliers based on our estimates of future sales. If actual sales differ materially from these estimates, our 9 inventory levels and expenses may be adversely affected and our business and results of operations could suffer. We wrote-off inventory in 2002, 2003 and 2004. We depend on a number of manufacturing subcontractors with limited manufacturing capacity, and these manufacturers may be unable to fill our orders on a timely basis and at the quality specifications that we require. As a result, we may not meet our customers' demands, harming our business and results of operations. We currently depend on a number of contract manufacturers with limited manufacturing capacity to manufacture our products. The assembly of certain of our finished products, the manufacture of custom printed circuit boards utilized in electronic subassemblies and related services are also performed by these independent subcontractors. In addition, we rely on third-party "turn-key" manufacturers to manufacture certain sub-systems for our products. Reliance on third party manufacturers exposes us to significant risks, including risks resulting from: o potential lack of manufacturing capacity; o limited control over delivery schedules; o quality assurance and control; o manufacturing yields and production costs; o voluntary or involuntary termination of their relationship with us; o difficulty in, and timeliness of, substituting any of our contract manufacturers, which could take as long as six months or more; o the economic and political conditions in their environment; and o their financial strength. If the operations of our contract manufacturers are halted, even temporarily, or if they are unable to operate at full capacity for an extended period of time, we may experience business interruption, increased costs, loss of goodwill and loss of customers. We are required to place manufacturing orders well in advance of the time we expect to sell products, and this may result in us ordering greater or lesser amount of these products than required. Because we outsource the manufacture of several of our products, we are required to place manufacturing orders well in advance of the time when we expect to sell these products. In the event that we order the manufacture of a greater or lesser amount of these products than we will ultimately require, we are generally obligated to purchase the surplus products or to forego or delay the sale or delivery of the products that we did not order in advance. In either case, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any of these risks could result in manufacturing delays or increases in manufacturing costs and expenses. For example, in 2003 and 2004 we recorded in our balance sheet, an allowance for irrevocable inventory purchase commitments in an aggregate amount of approximately $4.3 million and $4.8 million, respectively, as a result of over-estimation of our sales. If we experience manufacturing delays, we could lose orders for our products and, as a result, lose customers. There may be an adverse affect on our profitability and consequently on our results of operations, if we incur increased costs. Our dependence on limited sources for key components of our products may lead to disruptions in the delivery and cost of our products, harming our business and results of operations. We currently obtain key components for our products from a limited number of suppliers, and in some instances from a single supplier. In addition, some of the components that we purchase from single suppliers are custom-made. Although we believe that we can replace any single supplier and obtain key components of comparable quality and price from alternative suppliers, we cannot assure you that we will not experience disruptions in the delivery and cost of our products. We do not have long-term supply contracts with most of these suppliers. In addition, there is global demand for some electrical components that are used in our systems and that are supplied by relatively few suppliers. This presents the following risks: 10 o delays in delivery or shortages of components, especially for custom-made components or components with long delivery lead times, could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellations of orders for our products; o suppliers could increase component prices significantly and with immediate effect on the manufacturing costs for our products; o we may not be able to develop alternative sources for product components; o suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our products. This may require us to modify our products, which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs and increased product prices; o we may be required to hold more inventory for longer periods of time than we otherwise might in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance; and o due to the political situation in the Middle East, we may not be able to import necessary components. In the past, we experienced delays and shortages in the supply of components on more than one occasion. We may experience such delays in the future, harming our business and results of operations. We could be subject to warranty claims and product recalls, which could be very expensive and harm our financial condition. Products like ours sometimes contain undetected errors. These errors can cause delays in product introductions or require design modifications. In addition, we are dependent on unaffiliated suppliers for key components incorporated into our products. Defects in systems in which our products are deployed, whether resulting from faults in our products or products supplied by others, from faulty installation or from any other cause, may result in customer dissatisfaction. We are continually marketing several new products. The risk of errors in these new products, as in any new product, may be greater than the risk of errors in established products. The warranties for our products permit customers to return for repair, within a period ranging from 12 to 36 months of purchase, any defective products. Any failure of a system in which our products are deployed (whether or not these products are the cause), any product recall and any associated negative publicity could result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Intense competition in the markets for our products may have an adverse affect on our sales and profitability. Many companies compete with us in the wireless broadband equipment market in which we sell our products. We expect that competition will increase in the future including from current large as well as new market vendors, both with respect to products that we currently offer and products that we intend to introduce in the future. In addition, some, or all, of the systems integrators and other strategic partners to which we sell our wireless broadband products could develop the capability to manufacture systems similar to our wireless broadband products independently. We expect our competitors to continue to improve independently the performance of their current products and to introduce new products or new technologies that may supplant or provide lower cost alternatives to our products or products with better performance. As the market grows, we expect to face competition from aggressive start-ups in different markets. We expect that we will also face competition from alternative wireline and wireless technologies including copper wires, fiber-optic cable, digital subscriber lines, or DSL, cable modems, satellite and other broadband access systems. Many companies compete with us in the specialized cellular network market, and we expect that competition will increase in the future, including competition from new market vendors (such as vendors operating in China) entering the cellular niche of rural cellular networks, in addition to the trend of IP based cellular base stations and softswitches as an alternative technology to this rural cellular niche. Some of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater resources including financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing and distribution capabilities, and enjoy greater market recognition than we do. We may not be able to differentiate our products from those of our competitors, successfully develop or introduce new products that are less costly or offer better performance than those of our competitors or offer our 11 customers payment or other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors. In addition, we may not be able to offer our products as part of integrated systems or solutions to the same extent as our competitors. A failure to accomplish one or more of these objectives could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability, harming our financial condition and results of operation. While 2004 showed steady quarterly growth, we have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, quarterly and annual fluctuations in our results of operations. This may cause volatility in the market price of our ordinary shares. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations. Any fluctuations may cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. This would likely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly and annual results of operations may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: o our success in integrating the interWAVE business; o the uneven pace of spectrum licensing to carriers and service providers; o adoption of new standards in our industry; o the size and timing of orders and the timing of large scale projects; o customer deferral of orders in anticipation of new products, product features or price reductions; o the timing of our product introductions or enhancements or those of our competitors or of providers of complementary products; o the purchasing patterns of our customers and end-users, as well as the budget cycles of customers for our products; o seasonality, including the relatively low level of general business activity at the beginning of each fiscal year and during the summer months in Europe and the winter months in South America and in the United States; o disruption in, or changes in the quality of, our sources of supply; o changes in the mix of products sold by us; o the extensive marketing and organizational efforts that carriers are required to make to develop their subscriber base following the deployment of the network infrastructure, creating a gap between the time carriers purchase base stations for network infrastructure deployment and the time they purchase terminal stations for connection of subscribers to the network; o mergers or acquisitions, by us, our competitors and exiting and potential customers, if any; o fluctuations in the exchange rate of the NIS against the dollar; o adoption of new financial accounting standards; and o general economic conditions, including the changing economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Our customers ordinarily require the delivery of products promptly after their orders are accepted. Our business usually does not have a significant backlog of accepted orders. Consequently, revenues in any quarter depend on orders received and accepted in that quarter. The deferral of the placing and acceptance of any large order from one quarter to another could materially adversely affect our results of operations for the previous quarter. If revenues from our business in any quarter remain level or decline in comparison to any previous quarter, our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, our operating expenses may increase significantly. If revenues in any quarter do not increase correspondingly or if we do not reduce our expenses in a timely manner in response to lower level or declining 12 revenues, our results of operations for that quarter would be materially adversely affected. Because of the variations that we have experienced in our quarterly results of operations, we do not believe quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are necessarily meaningful and you should not rely on results of operations in any particular quarter as an indication of future performance. We depend on key personnel. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of key personnel. If one or more of our key technical, sales or management personnel terminates his or her employment, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our employees are employed "at will." This means that our employees are not obligated to remain employed by us for any specific period. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company. As a result of the combination of our substantial holdings of cash, cash equivalents and securities and the decline in the market price of our ordinary shares from its historical highs, there is a risk that we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Based upon our market capitalization during 2004 and each year prior to 2001, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for any such year and, based upon our valuation of our assets as of the end of each quarter of 2002 and 2003 an independent valuation of our assets as of the end of each quarter of 2001, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for 2001, 2002 or 2003 despite the relatively low market price of our ordinary shares during some of those years. We cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service or the courts would agree with our conclusion if they were to consider our situation. There is no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2005 or in subsequent years. If we were classified as a PFIC, U.S. taxpayers that own our ordinary shares at any time during a taxable year for which we were a PFIC would be subject to additional taxes upon certain distributions by us or upon gains recognized after a sale or disposition of our ordinary shares unless they appropriately elect to treat us as a "qualified electing fund" under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. This could also adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Compliance with changing laws and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure has resulted, and will continue to result, in the incurrence of additional expenses associated with being a public company. New and changing laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations impose stricter corporate governance requirements and greater disclosure obligations. They have had the effect of increasing the complexity and cost of our company's corporate governance compliance, diverting the time and attention of our management from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, and increasing the risk of personal liability for our board members and executive officers involved in our company's corporate governance process. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws and regulations may result, in increased general and administrative expenses, and increased professional fees. In addition, it may become more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Furthermore, in order to meet the new corporate governance and disclosure obligations, we have been taking, and will continue to take, steps to improve our controls and procedures and related corporate governance policies and procedures to address compliance issues and correct any deficiencies that we may discover. While we believe that the procedures and policies that we have in place are effective to address the New Sarbanes and other regulatory requirements, the expansion of our operations and the growth of our business may require us to modify and expand our disclosure controls and procedures and related corporate governance policies. In addition, these new and changed laws and regulations are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws and regulations differ from the conduct intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities or varying interpretations of the law, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions, our reputation may be harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. The Implementation of SFAS No. 123(R) would negatively affect the Company's profitability. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") has recently adopted an accounting standard ("SFAS No. 123(R)") that requires the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees be recognized in the statement 13 of operations as compensation expense, beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The various methods for determining the fair value of stock options are based on, among other things, the volatility of the underlying stock. Our stock price has historically been volatile. The adoption of this new accounting regulation will have a significant impact on our results of operations, as our reported earnings will decrease significantly. Had we adopted Statement 123(R) in 2002, 2003 and 2004, the impact of that standard have been approximately $7.0 million, $7.6 million and $6.5 million, respectively, as described in the disclosure of pro forma net income and earnings per share in Note 2m to our consolidated financial statements. Our stock price could decline in response to the decline in our reported earnings. Such adoption may also affect the Company's management discretion to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt the Company's ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. The trading price of our ordinary shares is subject to volatility. The trading price of our ordinary shares has experienced significant volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Since our initial public offering in March 2000, the sales prices of our ordinary shares on the Nasdaq National Market have ranged from a high of $53.125 to a low of $1.55. On June 6, 2005, the last sales price of our ordinary shares on the Nasdaq National Market was $9.37. We may continue to experience significant volatility in the future, based on the following factors, among others: o our prospects; o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our sales and results of operations; o variations between our actual or anticipated results of operations and the published expectations of analysts; o general conditions in the wireless broadband products industry and general conditions in the telecommunications equipment industry; o announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures and capital commitments; o introduction of technologies or product enhancements or new industry substitute standards that reduce the need for our products; o general economic and political conditions, particularly in the United States and in South America on our operations and results; and o departures of key personnel. Our proprietary technology is difficult to protect and unauthorized use of it by third parties may impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete will depend, to a large extent, on maintaining our proprietary rights and the rights that we currently license or will license in the future from third parties. We rely primarily on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and on confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment-of-inventions agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have obtained several patents and have several patent applications pending that are associated with our products. We also have several trademark registrations associated with our name and some of our products. These measures may not be adequate to protect our technology from third-party infringement. Our competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology. Third party patent applications filed earlier may block our patent applications or receive broader claim coverage. In addition, any patents issued to us, if issued at all, may not provide us with significant commercial protection. Third parties may also invalidate, circumvent, challenge or design around our patents or trade secrets, and our proprietary technology may otherwise become known or similar technology may be independently developed by competitors. Additionally, our products may be sold in foreign countries that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Failure to successfully protect our intellectual property from infringement may damage our ability to compete effectively and harm our results of operations. 14 We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business. Third parties have in the past asserted against us, and may in the future assert against us, infringement claims or claims that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. In addition, based on the size and sophistication of our competitors and the history of rapid technological change in our industry, we anticipate that several competitors may have intellectual property rights that could relate to our products. Therefore, we may need to litigate to defend against claims of infringement or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Similarly, we may need to litigate to enforce or uphold the validity of our patent, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Other actions may involve ownership disputes over our intellectual property or the misappropriation of our trade secrets or proprietary technology. As a result of these actions, we may have to seek licenses to a third party's intellectual property rights, which may not be able to be successfully integrated into our products. These licenses may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, if we decide to litigate these claims, the litigation could be expensive and time consuming and could result in court orders preventing us from selling our then-current products or from operating our business. Any infringement claim, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain licenses to use certain technologies, we may not be able to develop and sell our products. We license certain technologies from others for use in connection with some of our technologies. The loss of these licenses could impair our ability to develop and market our products. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the licenses that we need, we may be unable to develop and market our products or processes, or we may need to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance characteristics or at greater cost. We cannot assure you that we can maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses, if we need them in the future, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Operating in international markets exposes us to risks which could cause our sales to decline and our operations to suffer. While we are headquartered in Israel, at least 99% of our sales in 2002, 2003 and 2004 were generated elsewhere around the world. Our products are marketed internationally and we are therefore subject to certain risks associated with international sales, including, but not limited to: o trade restrictions, tariffs and export license requirements, which may restrict our ability to export our products or make them less price-competitive; o currency fluctuations; o greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property; and o difficulties in managing overseas subsidiaries and international operations. We may encounter significant difficulties with the sale of our products in international markets as a result of one or more of these factors. There may be health and safety risks relating to wireless products. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from cellular telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. 15 Terrorist attacks, or the threat of such attacks, may negatively impact the global economy which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation and may cause our share price to decline. The financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following terrorist attacks throughout the world have led to a worsening of the global economy. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers have become much more cautious in setting their capital expenditure budgets, thereby restricting their telecommunications procurement. Uncertainties related to the threat of terrorism have had a negative effect on global economy, causing businesses to continue slowing spending on telecommunications products and services and further lengthen already long sales cycles. Any escalation of these threats or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. We are incorporated under Israeli law and our principal offices and the majority of our manufacturing and research and development facilities are located in the State of Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. We could be harmed by any major hostilities involving Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Due to the volatile security situation in Israel, our insurance carrier no longer insures our facilities and assets for damage or loss resulting from terrorist incidents. Additionally, several countries still restrict business with Israel and with Israeli companies. We could be adversely affected by the continuation or deterioration of Israel's conflict with the Palestinians or from restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses. We could be adversely affected if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the New Israeli Shekel against the dollar. Substantially the majority of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our expenses, primarily labor and subcontractor expenses, is incurred in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel, or the NIS may increase in value relative to the dollar. If the dollar costs of our operations in Israel increase, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In 2004, the value of the dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 1.62%, and the inflation rate in Israel was 1.21%. We currently benefit from government programs and tax benefits that may be discontinued or reduced. We currently receive grants and tax benefits under Government of Israel programs. Pursuant to our current arrangement with the Office of the Chief Scientist, or OCS, the OCS will finance up to 20% of our research and development expenses by reimbursing us for up to 50% of the approved expenses related to our generic research and development projects. In addition, we obtain other grants from the OCS to fund certain other research and development projects. These programs currently restrict our ability to manufacture particular products or transfer particular technology outside of Israel. Under the programs we need to comply with certain conditions. If we fail to comply with these conditions, the benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to refund any payments previously received under these programs or pay additional amounts with respect to the grants received under these programs. The Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs in recent years and these programs may be discontinued or curtailed in the future. If the Government of Israel discontinues or modifies these programs and tax benefits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Recently, an amendment to the R&D Law was approved by Israel's Parliament which is intended to make the R&D Law more compatible with the global business environment. Currently, the law permits the Office of the Chief Scientist to approve the transfer of manufacturing rights outside Israel subject to an approval of the research committee and in exchange for payment of higher royalties, for royalties bearing programs. 16 Following our acquisition of interWAVE and its subsidiaries, the Irish subsidiary participates in programs sponsored by the Irish Government and the European Union , operated by the Industrial Development Agency (IDA) and previously by Shannon Development. These programs are designed to promote research and development and overall regional development. No royalties are payable on these grants but the IDA may at any time within five years from the date of payment of the last installment from any particular grant stop payment of the grants and/or revoke and cancel or reduce the grants under certain circumstances. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the grants received could be canceled and we could be required to repay them. In addition, we have been granted status of an approved enterprise under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 for our production facilities in Israel. Such status enables us to obtain certain tax relief for a definitive period upon compliance with the investment law regulations. A recent amendment to the Investment Law, which we refer to as the Amendment and has been officially published and effected since April 1, 2005, has significantly changed the provisions of the Investment Law. The Amendment limits the scope of enterprises, which may be approved by the Investment Center by setting criteria for the approval of a facility as an Approved Enterprise. Additionally, the Amendment enacted major changes in the manner in which tax benefits are awarded under the Investment Law so that companies no longer require Investment Center approval in order to qualify for tax benefits. However, the Amendment provides that terms and benefits included in any certificate of approval already granted will remain subject to the provisions of the law as they were on the date of such approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be canceled and we could be required to pay increased taxes in the future. We currently contemplate that a portion of our products will be manufactured outside of Israel. This could materially reduce the tax benefits to which we would otherwise be entitled. In addition, because the Israeli tax authorities customarily review and reassess existing tax benefits granted to merging companies and because we have yet to finalize the status of our tax benefits with the Israeli tax authorities following our merger with Floware and our acquisition of most of the assets and assumption of related liabilities of InnoWave, we cannot assure you that the Israeli tax authorities will not modify adversely to us the tax benefits that we could have enjoyed prior to these events. We may be exposed to tax liabilities in the USA and in other local and international jurisdictions following the acquisition of interWAVE Communications. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult a merger or an acquisition of us, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the market price of our ordinary shares. Provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger or other acquisition of us. The Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999, referred to as the Israeli Companies Law, generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by a shareholder vote at a shareholders' meeting that has been called on at least 21 days' advance notice. Any creditor of a merger party may seek a court order to delay or enjoin the merger, if there is a reasonable concern that the surviving corporation will not be able to satisfy all of the obligations of any party to the merger. Moreover, a merger may not be completed until at least 70 days have passed from the time that the merger proposal has been filed with the Israeli Registrar of Companies. Other potential means of acquiring a public Israeli company such as us might involve significant obstacles, including a requirement for court approval for the acquisition. In addition, a body of case law has not yet developed with respect to the new Companies Law. Until this happens, uncertainties will exist regarding its interpretation. These uncertainties could have the effect of inhibiting attempts to acquire us and other transactions and decisions by or involving us. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors, officers and experts in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Our executive officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report are expected to be nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons may be located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. 17 