ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATING TO THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR PRODUCTS We are reliant on Genentech for the successful development and commercialization of Erivedge. If Genentech does not successfully commercialize Erivedge for advanced BCC, or develop Erivedge for other indications, our future prospects and our ability to finance our operations may be substantially harmed. In January 2012, Erivedge was approved by the FDA as the first and only FDA-approved medicine for people with advanced forms of BCC. Genentech has also filed and had accepted an MAA with the EMA seeking regulatory approval of Erivedge in the EU for this same indication. Genentech and Roche are also conducting a phase II clinical trial of Erivedge in operable nodular BCC and Erivedge is currently being tested in other cancers under collaborative agreements between Genentech and either third-party investigators or the NCI. Our near-term prospects substantially depend upon Genentech’s ability to successfully develop and commercialize Erivedge in one or more indications and to demonstrate its safety and efficacy, as well as its superiority over existing therapies and standards of care. Moreover, our ability to finance our company and to generate revenues will depend heavily on the ability of Genentech and Roche to: (i) derive meaningful royalties from the commercial sale of Erivedge for advanced BCC, (ii) successfully file regulatory submissions for, and obtain approval to sell, Erivedge in Europe and/or other territories for advanced BCC, and (iii) obtain favorable results in ongoing and planned clinical trials of Erivedge in other indications, including the ongoing clinical trial in operable BCC. The development and commercialization of Erivedge could be unsuccessful if: • Erivedge for the treatment of advanced BCC is not accepted as safe, efficacious, cost-effective, less costly and preferable to current therapies in the medical community and by third-party payors; • Genentech fails to apply the necessary financial resources and expertise to manufacturing, marketing and selling Erivedge for advanced BCC and to regulatory approvals for this indication outside of the US; • Genentech does not develop and implement effective marketing, sales and distribution strategies and operations, for development and commercialization of Erivedge for advanced BCC; • Genentech does not develop, validate and maintain a commercially viable manufacturing process for Erivedge that is compliant with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP; • Genentech does not successfully obtain third party reimbursement and generate commercial demand that results in sales of Erivedge for advanced BCC in any geographic areas where requisite approvals have been, or may be, obtained; • we or Genentech encounter any third party patent interference or patent infringement claims with respect to Erivedge; • Genentech does not comply with any and all regulatory and legal requirements applicable to the sale of Erivedge for advanced BCC; • new safety risks are identified after Erivedge is commercially marketed; and/or • Erivedge does not demonstrate acceptable safety and efficacy in current or future clinical trials, or otherwise does not meet applicable regulatory standards for approval in indications other than advanced BCC. The therapeutic efficacy of drug candidates being developed in our network-targeted cancer programs is unproven in humans, and we may not be able to successfully develop and commercialize CUDC-101 or any other future drug candidates that we may select from these programs. Our drug candidates in our network-targeted cancer program, including CUDC-101, Debio 0932 and CUDC-907, are novel compounds and their potential benefit as therapeutic cancer drugs is unproven. These drug candidates may not prove to be effective inhibitors of the validated cancer targets they are being designed to act against and 21 Table of Contents may not demonstrate in patients any or all of the pharmacological benefits that we believe they may possess or that may have been demonstrated in preclinical studies. Moreover, there is a risk that these drug candidates may interact with human biological systems in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. As a result of these and other risks described herein that are inherent in the development of novel therapeutic agents, we may never successfully develop, enter into or maintain third party licensing or collaboration transactions with respect to, or successfully commercialize CUDC-101, CUDC-907 or Debio 0932, or any other drug candidates from our network-targeted cancer programs, in which case we will not achieve profitability and the value of our stock will decline. We depend on third parties for the development of certain of our programs. If one or more of our collaborators fails or delays in developing or commercializing drug candidates based upon our technologies, our business prospects and operating results would suffer and our stock price would likely decline. We currently have a collaboration with Genentech pursuant to which we have granted to Genentech exclusive rights to develop and commercialize products based upon our Hedgehog pathway technologies. Genentech recently obtained FDA approval to commercialize Erivedge, the sole compound being developed under this collaboration, in advanced BCC. Genentech is also seeking to obtain regulatory approval for this same indication in the EU, and is also conducting, both alone and in collaboration, further studies of Erivedge for other indications. In addition, we entered into a license agreement with Debiopharm pursuant to which Debiopharm is testing Debio 0932 in a phase Ib clinical trial in advanced solid tumors. Our collaboration agreement with Genentech and our license agreement with Debiopharm are our most significant collaborations, and these collaborations may not be scientifically or commercially successful due to a number of factors, including the following: • Genentech and Debiopharm each have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to their respective collaboration with us. The timing and amount of any cash payments related to royalties and the achievement of development objectives that we may receive under such collaborative arrangements will depend on, among other things, our collaboration partners’ efforts, allocation of resources and successful development and commercialization of our drug candidates under their respective agreements with us. For example, our ability to obtain meaningful amounts of royalty income from sales of Erivedge for advanced BCC will depend solely upon the degree to which Genentech applies suitable financial and other resources to the manufacture, commercialization and sale of Erivedge for advanced BCC and to obtaining regulatory approvals outside of the US. • Our agreements with Genentech and Debiopharm each permits the other party wide discretion in deciding which drug candidates to advance through the clinical trial process. It is possible for Genentech or Debiopharm to reject drug candidates at any point in the research, development and clinical trial process, without triggering a termination of the applicable agreement. In the event of any such decision, our business and prospects may be adversely affected and we may not have the commercial rights or the resources necessary to advance such programs on our own. • We have granted clinical development rights to Genentech and Debiopharm, respectively, under our agreements with each of them. If they fail to allocate sufficient time, attention and resources to clinical trials of product candidates under these collaborations, or fail to comply with good clinical practices or other applicable regulatory requirements for such clinical trials, the successful clinical development and commercialization of such product candidates is likely to be adversely affected, as will our ability to generate revenue from such collaborations. • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products that are similar to or competitive with the drug candidates that are the subject of its collaboration with us. For example, Genentech and Debiopharm each are developing several other programs in cancer. • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may change the focus of its development and commercialization efforts or pursue higher-priority programs. Our ability to successfully commercialize drug candidates under collaboration with Genentech or Debiopharm could be limited if Genentech or Debiopharm decreases or fails to increase spending related to such drug candidates. 22 Table of Contents • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may enter into one or more transactions with third parties, including a merger, consolidation, reorganization, sale of substantial assets, sale of substantial stock or change of control. For example, during the first quarter of 2009, Roche Holdings Ltd. completed its acquisition of Genentech. Any such transaction could divert the attention of our collaborative partner’s management and adversely affect its ability to retain and motivate key personnel who are important to the continued development of the programs under such collaboration. In addition, an acquirer could determine to reprioritize our collaborator’s development programs such that our collaborator ceases to diligently pursue the development of our programs, and/or terminates its collaboration with us. • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may, under specified circumstances, terminate its collaboration with us on short notice and for circumstances outside of our control, which could make it difficult for us to attract new collaborators or adversely affect how we are perceived in the scientific and financial communities. • Both Genentech and Debiopharm have the first right to maintain or defend our intellectual property rights under their respective agreements and, although we may have the right to assume the maintenance and defense of our intellectual property rights if our collaborators do not, our ability to do so may be compromised by our collaborators’ acts or omissions. • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may utilize our intellectual property rights in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property rights or expose us to potential liability. • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may not comply with all applicable regulatory requirements, or fail to report safety data in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. • If either Genentech or Debiopharm were to breach or terminate its arrangement with us, the development and commercialization of the affected product candidate could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of the product candidate on our own. • Either Genentech or Debiopharm may not have sufficient resources necessary to advance clinical development of product candidates under our collaborations with each of them or may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. If Genentech or Debiopharm fails to successfully develop and commercialize our drug candidates under collaboration, we may not be able to develop and commercialize these candidates independently or successfully enter into one or more alternative collaborations, in which event our financial condition, results of operations and stock price may be adversely affected. For a further discussion of risks relating specifically to our dependence on Genentech for the successful development and commercialization of Erivedge, see: “We are reliant on Genentech for the successful development and commercialization of Erivedge. If Genentech does not successfully commercialize Erivedge for advanced BCC, or develop Erivedge for other indications, our future prospects and our ability to finance our operations will be substantially harmed.” We may not be successful in establishing additional strategic collaborations, which could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products. Our current strategy is to seek corporate collaborators or licensees for the further development and commercialization of one or more drug candidates under our network-targeted cancer drug programs, generally following our completion of at least phase I clinical testing. For example, while we are not presently seeking to enter into corporate collaborations for CUDC-101, we are likely to seek to partner CUDC-101, CUDC-907 as well as other drug candidates from these programs in the future. We do not currently have the experience, resources or capacity to advance these programs into later stage clinical development (i.e., phase III) or commercialization. As such, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to enter into one or more such 23 Table of Contents collaborations. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators and the negotiation process is time-consuming and complex. Moreover, we may not be successful in our efforts to establish a collaboration or other alternative arrangements for CUDC-101, CUDC-907 or any future programs because our research and development pipeline may be insufficient, our programs may be deemed to be at too early of a stage of development for collaborative effort and/or third parties may not view our drug candidates and programs as having the requisite potential to demonstrate safety and efficacy or sufficient differentiability compared to existing or emerging treatments. Even if we are successful in our efforts to establish new collaborations, the terms that we agree upon may not be favorable to us. Moreover, if we fail to establish and maintain additional strategic partnerships related to our product candidates: • the development of certain of our current or future product candidates may be terminated or delayed; • our cash expenditures related to development of certain of our current or future product candidates would increase significantly and we may need to seek additional financing; • we may be required to hire additional employees or otherwise develop expertise, such as additional clinical, regulatory, sales and marketing expertise, for which we have not budgeted; • we will bear all of the risk related to the development of any such product candidates; and • our future prospects may be adversely affected and our stock price could decline. If preclinical studies and clinical trials of our drug candidates are not successful then our future profitability and success could be adversely affected. In order to obtain regulatory approval for the commercial sale of our drug candidates, we and any current or potential future collaborators will be required to complete extensive preclinical studies as well as clinical trials in humans to demonstrate to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities that our drug candidates are safe and effective for each indication for which approval is sought. Development, including preclinical and clinical testing, is a long, expensive and uncertain process. Preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates may not be successful. We and our collaborators could experience delays or failures in preclinical testing or clinical trials of any of our drug candidates for a number of reasons including, for example: • preclinical studies or clinical trials may produce negative, inconsistent or inconclusive results, as occurred in Genentech’s phase II clinical trials of Erivedge in colorectal cancer and ovarian cancer, both of which were completed in 2010; • we or any collaborators may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or terminate testing for a particular drug candidate; • the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from expanded, advanced clinical trials; • we may encounter difficulties or delays in manufacturing sufficient quantities of the drug candidate used in any preclinical study or clinical trial; • the timing and completion of clinical trials of our drug candidates depend on, among other factors, the number of patients required to be enrolled in the clinical trials and the rate at which those patients are enrolled, and any increase in the required number of patients, decrease in recruitment rates or difficulties retaining study participants may result in increased costs, program delays or program termination; • our products under development may not be effective in treating any of our network-targeted cancer indications or may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their commercial use; 24 Table of Contents • institutional review boards, regulators, including the FDA or its foreign equivalents, or any collaborators may hold, suspend or terminate our clinical research or the clinical trials of our drug candidates for various reasons, including failure to achieve established success criteria, noncompliance with regulatory requirements or if, in their opinion, the participating subjects are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • we, along with any of our current or potential future collaborators and subcontractors, may not employ, in any capacity, persons who have been debarred under the FDA’s Application Integrity Policy, or similar policy under foreign regulatory authorities, nor may we or any of our current or potential future collaborators or subcontractors use disqualified clinical investigators or institutions to perform clinical trials of our drug candidates. Employment or use of such a debarred or disqualified person or institution may result in delays in FDA’s or foreign equivalent’s review or approval of our products, or the rejection of data developed with the involvement of such person(s) or institution(s). If the preclinical studies and/or clinical trials for any of our drug candidates that we and any collaborators pursue are not successful, then our ability to successfully develop and commercialize products on the basis of the respective technologies will be materially adversely affected, our reputation and our ability to raise additional capital will be materially impaired and our stock price is likely to decline. We expect to rely in part on third parties to conduct clinical trials of our internally-developed product candidates, and if such third parties perform inadequately then we will not be able to successfully develop and commercialize drug candidates and grow our business. We have a limited internal group for overseeing our clinical trials, currently comprised of our chief medical and development officer, our director of development and our clinical operations manager. In the near term, we expect to rely in part on third parties such as consultants, contract research organizations and other similar entities to complete IND-enabling preclinical studies, assist us in creating and submitting IND applications, enroll qualified subjects, conduct our clinical trials and provide services in connection with such clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities will reduce our control over these activities. These third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or at all, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with the clinical trial protocol or design. In addition, the FDA and its foreign equivalents require us to comply with certain standards, referred to as good clinical practices, and applicable regulatory requirements, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If any of the third party contractors on whom we rely do not comply with good clinical practices or other applicable regulatory requirements, we may not be able to use the data and reported results from the applicable trial. Any failure by a third party to conduct our clinical trials as planned or in accordance with regulatory requirements could delay or otherwise adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates. If we and our collaborative partners do not obtain necessary regulatory approvals, then our business will be unsuccessful and the market price of our common stock could substantially decline. We and our collaborators will be required to obtain regulatory approval in order to successfully advance drug candidates through the clinic and prior to marketing and selling such products. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals is expensive and the time required for these approvals is uncertain and typically takes a number of years, depending on the type, complexity and novelty of the product. With respect to our internal programs, we have limited experience in filing and prosecuting applications to obtain marketing approval. Any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which we or our collaborative partners may market the product or to distribution and use restrictions or other requirements under a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS. These limitations may restrict the size of the market for the product and affect reimbursement by third-party payors. In addition, regulatory agencies may not grant approvals on a timely basis or may revoke or significantly modify previously granted approvals. 25 Table of Contents We and our collaborators are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the manufacturing and marketing of potential future products outside of the United States. The approval procedure varies among countries, additional testing may be required in some jurisdictions, and the time required to obtain foreign approvals often differs from that required to obtain FDA approvals. Moreover, approval by the FDA or a foreign equivalent does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and vice versa. In addition, regulatory agencies may change existing requirements or adopt new requirements or policies. We and any collaborative partners may be slow to adapt or may not be able to adapt to these changes or new requirements. As a result of these factors, we and any collaborators may not successfully begin or complete clinical trials and/or obtain regulatory approval to market and sell drug candidates in the time periods estimated, if at all. Moreover, if we or any collaborators incur costs and delays in development programs or fail to successfully develop and commercialize products based upon our technologies, we may not become profitable and our stock price could decline. Even if marketing approval is obtained, any products we or any collaborators develop will be subject to ongoing regulatory oversight, which may affect the successful commercialization of such products. Even if we or any collaborators obtain regulatory approval of a drug candidate, the approval may be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product can be marketed, impose restrictions on how the product can be distributed and used pursuant to a REMS, or require costly post-marketing follow-up studies. After marketing approval for any product is obtained, the manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities for that product will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA, or foreign equivalent, and other regulatory agencies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, or with the manufacturer or facility, or a failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market, fines, refusal to approve pending applications or supplements, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal to permit the import or export of our products or those of our collaborators, and criminal prosecution. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our or our collaborators’ product candidates. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we or our collaborators are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we or they may lose any marketing approvals that have been obtained, which would adversely affect the amount of revenue generated from such products and adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. We and our current collaborators are, and any potential future collaborators will be, subject to governmental regulations in connection with the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We and our collaborators may not be able to comply with these regulations, which could subject us or such collaborators to penalties and result in the imposition of limitations on our or such collaborators’ operations. In addition to regulations imposed by the FDA or foreign equivalents, we and our current collaborators are, and any potential future collaborators will be, subject to regulation under, among other laws, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Research Conservation and Recovery Act, as well as regulations administered by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, national restrictions on technology transfer, import, export and customs regulations and certain other local, state or federal regulations. From time to time, other federal agencies and congressional committees have indicated an 26 Table of Contents interest in implementing further regulation of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We are not able to predict whether any such regulations will be adopted or whether, if adopted, such regulations will apply to our business, or whether we or any collaborators would be able to comply with any applicable regulations. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials and we must comply with environmental laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury caused by these materials. Violation of these laws and regulations could lead to substantial fines and penalties. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials and interrupt our business operations. In addition, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of any contamination, whether currently unknown or caused by future releases. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liability and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. If we or any of our collaborators fail to achieve market acceptance for any approved products, our future revenue and ability to achieve profitability may be adversely affected. Our future products, including those developed under collaborations with third parties, may not gain commercial acceptance among physicians, patients and third-party payors, even if necessary marketing approvals have been obtained. We believe that recommendations and endorsements by physicians will be essential for market acceptance of any products we or our collaborators successfully develop. If we or our collaborators are not able to obtain market acceptance for such products, our expected revenues from sales of these products would be adversely affected and our business may not be successful. RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS AND NEED FOR FINANCING We have incurred substantial losses, expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future and may never generate significant revenue or achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $732,088,000. We have incurred net losses of $9,859,000, $4,435,000 and $9,823,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Other than Erivedge, which was approved by the FDA in January 2012 for the treatment of advanced forms of basal cell carcinoma, we have not successfully commercialized any products to date, either alone or in collaboration with others. We are entitled to royalties on net sales of Erivedge by Genentech. If these royalties are not meaningful or we are not able to successfully commercialize any products, we will not achieve profitability. All of our drug candidates other than Erivedge are in early stages of development. For the foreseeable future, we will need to spend significant capital in an effort to develop and commercialize products and we expect to incur substantial operating losses. Our failure to become and remain profitable would, among other things, depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, diversify our research and development programs or continue our operations. 27 Table of Contents We will require substantial additional capital, which is likely to be difficult to obtain. We will require substantial funds to continue our research and development programs and to fulfill our planned operating goals. In particular, our currently planned operating and capital requirements include the need for substantial working capital to support our research and development activities for CUDC-101, CUDC-907 and other small molecules that we are seeking to develop from our pipeline of network-targeted cancer programs, and to fund our general and administrative costs and expenses. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our operating cash flow from the research funding portion of collaboration agreements with third parties. However, we have no current research funding revenue under collaboration agreements. Our only potential source of cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future is contingent payments that we could receive under existing or new collaborations as follows: • up-front license payments and research and development funding that we may receive if we are able to successfully enter into new collaboration agreements for our technologies under development; • contingent cash payments that we may receive for the achievement of development objectives under any new collaborations or our existing collaborations with Genentech and Debiopharm; and • royalty payments that are contingent upon the successful commercialization of products based upon these collaborations, including royalties on US sales of Erivedge by Genentech in advance basal cell carcinoma. We may not be able to successfully enter into or continue any corporate collaborations and the timing, amount and likelihood of us receiving payments under such collaborations is highly uncertain. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will attain adequate future operating capital, if any, from collaborations or licensing arrangements. We anticipate that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and working capital at December 31, 2011 should enable us to maintain current and planned operations into the second half of 2013. Our future capital requirements, however, may vary from what we currently expect. There are a number of factors that may affect our planned future capital requirements and accelerate our need for additional working capital, many of which are outside our control, including the following: • unanticipated costs in our research and development programs; • the timing and cost of obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; • the timing, receipt and amount of payments, if any, from current and potential future collaborators, including the level of any royalty payments from sales of Erivedge; • the timing and amount of payments due to licensors of patent rights and technology used in our drug candidates; • unplanned costs to prepare, file, prosecute, maintain and enforce patent claims and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs and technology license fees; and • unexpected losses in our cash investments or an inability to otherwise liquidate our cash investments due to unfavorable conditions in the capital markets. Additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available to us on a timely basis, we may be required to: • delay, limit, reduce or terminate preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for one or more of our product candidates; or • delay, limit, reduce or terminate our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our product candidates. 28 Table of Contents Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings of debt or equity. For example, in June 2011 we entered into an agreement with McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak, LLC, or MLV, pursuant to which, from time to time, we may offer and sell up to $20 million of common stock through MLV pursuant to one or more “at the market” offerings. In addition, with our prior written approval, MLV may also sell these shares of common stock by any other method permitted by law, including in privately negotiated transactions. The market for emerging life science stocks in general, and the market for our common stock in particular, are highly volatile. Due to this and various other factors, including adverse general market conditions and the early-stage status of our development pipeline, additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and we may not be able to sell additional shares under the arrangement with MLV at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may be dilutive or otherwise adversely affect other rights of our stockholders. We also expect to seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators, licensees or other third parties. These arrangements would generally require us to relinquish or encumber rights to some of our technologies or drug candidates. Moreover, we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, whether through sales of debt or equity or through third party collaboration or license arrangements, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our development programs. We may face fluctuations in our operating results from period to period, which may result in a decline in our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly from period to period in the past and may rise or fall significantly from period to period in the future as a result of many factors, including: • the cost of research and development that we engage in; • a failure to successfully complete preclinical studies and clinical trials in a timely manner or at all, resulting in a delay in receiving, or a failure to receive, the required regulatory approvals to commercialize our drug candidates; • the timing, receipt and amount of payments, if any, from current and potential future collaborators, including the level of any royalty payments from sales of Erivedge; • the entry into, or termination of, collaboration agreements; • the scope, duration and effectiveness of our collaborative arrangements; • the costs involved in prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; • costs to comply with changes in government regulations; • costs related to changes in management and reductions or additions of personnel; • litigation costs; • costs and accounting charges associated with financing or borrowing arrangements we may enter into from time to time; • general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions that may affect, among other things, our and our collaborators’ operations and financial results; • changes in accounting estimates, policies or principles, including changes in revenue recognition policies; and • the introduction of competitive products and technologies by third parties. 29 Table of Contents Due to fluctuations in our operating results, quarterly comparisons of our financial results may not necessarily be meaningful, and investors should not rely upon such results as an indication of our future performance. In addition, investors may react adversely if our reported operating results are less favorable than in a prior period or are less favorable than those anticipated by investors or the financial community, which may result in a decline in our stock price. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition and stock price. Our general business strategy and prospects may be adversely affected by the unfavorable economic conditions, volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions, both domestically and abroad. If equity and credit markets are unfavorable, it may make future debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon research and development plans. In addition, there is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which could directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. At December 31, 2011, we had $37,718,000 of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities consisting of cash, money market, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and government obligations. While as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any downgrades, material losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or marketable securities since December 31, 2011, no assurance can be given that further deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or marketable securities or our ability to meet our financing objectives. Further dislocations in the credit market may adversely impact the value and liquidity of marketable securities owned by us. There is a possibility that our stock price may decline due to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY, STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS We and our collaborators may not achieve projected research and development goals in the time frames that we or they announce, which could have an adverse impact on our business and could cause our stock price to decline. We set goals for, and make public statements regarding, the timing of certain accomplishments, such as the commencement and completion of preclinical studies, initiation and completion of clinical trials, and other developments and milestones under our proprietary programs and those programs being developed under collaboration agreements. Genentech has also made public statements regarding its expectations for the clinical development and potential filing of additional regulatory submissions for approval of Erivedge, and may in the future make additional statements about its goals and expectations for this collaboration with us. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to a number of factors including without limitation delays or failures in our and our current and potential future collaborators’ preclinical studies or clinical trials, the amount of time, effort and resources committed to our programs by us and our current and potential future collaborators and the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process. As a result, we can not assure you that our or our current and potential future collaborators’ preclinical studies and clinical trials will advance or be completed in the time frames we or they announce or expect, that we or our current and potential future collaborators will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we or our current and potential future collaborators will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the achievement of key milestones under any of our internal or collaborative programs. If we or any collaborators fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, our business could be materially adversely affected and the price of our common stock could decline. 30 Table of Contents We face substantial competition, which may result in our competitors discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our drug candidates face competition from existing and new technologies and products being developed by biotechnology, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, as well as universities and other research institutions. For example, there are several Hedgehog pathway inhibitors presently in clinical development by companies including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Millenium Pharmaceuticals, Novartis and Pfizer that may compete with Erivedge. We currently believe that the nearest competitive molecule to Erivedge in clinical development is in Phase II clinical testing in locally advanced and metastatic basal cell carcinoma . We are developing Hedgehog-based therapies under our collaborations with Genentech in the field of cancer. Competitors may discover, characterize and develop Hedgehog pathway inhibitor drug candidates before we do or may compete with us in the same market sector. In addition, our small molecule network-targeted cancer drug development candidates, which are focused primarily on validated cancer targets, face significant competition from marketed drugs and drugs under development that seek to inhibit the same targets as our drug candidates. We expect competition to intensify in cancer generally and, specifically, in targeted approaches to develop potential cancer therapies as technical advances in the field are made and become more widely known. Many of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs and facilities, and more extensive experience than we have. As a result, efforts by other life science, medical device and pharmaceutical companies could render our programs or products uneconomical or result in therapies superior to those that we develop alone or with a collaborator. For those programs that we have selected for internal development, we face competition from companies that are more experienced in product development and commercialization, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing. Other smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. As a result, any of these companies may be more successful in obtaining collaboration agreements or other monetary support, approval and commercialization of their products and/or may develop competing products more rapidly and/or at a lower cost. For those programs that are subject to a collaboration agreement, competitors may have greater expertise in discovery, research and development, manufacturing, preclinical and clinical testing, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than our collaborators and, consequently, may discover, develop and commercialize products that render our products non-competitive or obsolete. If we are not able to compete effectively, then we may not be able, either alone or with others, to advance the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, which would adversely affect our ability to grow our business and become profitable. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies in these industries having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic drug candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, and as a result may harm our business. 31 Table of Contents We could be exposed to significant monetary damages and business harm if we are unable to obtain or maintain adequate product liability insurance at acceptable costs or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. Product liability claims are inherent in the process of researching, developing and commercializing human health care products could expose us to significant liabilities and prevent or interfere with the development or commercialization of our drug candidates. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims would require us to spend significant time, money and other resources to defend such claims, could result in decreased demand for our future products or result in reputational harm and could result in the payment of a significant damage award. Although we currently have product liability insurance for our clinical trials, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations and may not be adequate in scope to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim. If any of our drug candidates advance in clinical trials and/or are approved for marketing, we may seek additional insurance coverage. Product liability insurance is expensive and may be difficult to procure. As such, it is possible that we will not be able to obtain product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, or that our product liability insurance coverage will prove to be inadequate to protect us from all potential claims, which may harm our business. If we are not able to attract and retain key management and scientific personnel and advisors, we may not successfully develop our drug candidates or achieve our other business objectives. We depend upon our senior management, including Daniel R. Passeri, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Maurizio Voi, our Chief Medical and Chief Development Officer, and Michael P. Gray, our Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the service of any of the key members of our senior management may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our officers all serve pursuant to “at will” employment arrangements and can terminate their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of these officers. Replacing key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to research, develop and successfully commercialize products in our areas of core competency. Our ability to operate successfully will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, consultants and advisors. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain these individuals, and our failure to do so would have an adverse effect on our business. We may seek to acquire complementary businesses and technologies or otherwise seek to expand our operations to grow our business, which may divert management resources and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may seek to expand our operations, including without limitation through internal growth and/or the acquisition of businesses and technologies that we believe are a strategic complement to our business model. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or expansion strategies and successfully complete such acquisitions or successfully execute any such other expansion strategies. We may never realize the anticipated benefits of any efforts to expand our business. Furthermore, the expansion of our business, either through internal growth or through acquisitions, poses significant risks to our existing operations, financial condition and operating results, including: • a diversion of management from our existing operations; • increased operating complexity of our business, requiring greater personnel and resources; • significant additional cash expenditures to expand our operations and acquire and integrate new businesses and technologies; 32 Table of Contents • incurrence of debt, other liabilities and contingent liabilities; and • dilutive stock issuances. Any business that we conduct in China will expose us to risks resulting from adverse changes in political, legal and economic policies of the Chinese government, which could impede our preclinical efforts in China and materially and adversely affect the development of our network-targeted cancer programs. We currently engage approximately 16 medicinal chemists in China pursuant to a contract research agreement with a medicinal chemistry provider in China. In addition, we have a subsidiary in China, Curis Shanghai, which is currently licensed to conduct business but is not operational. Conducting business in China exposes us to a variety of risks and uncertainties that are unique to China. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industrial development. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in interruptions of our development efforts in China. If our research and development efforts in China are delayed due to such interruptions, we may not realize the reductions in costs anticipated from doing business in China. We would also have to consider moving our chemistry and/or biology research that is currently conducted in China to U.S. or European providers, thereby potentially either increasing our overall costs for such services or reducing the total number of chemists and or/biologists that we could engage. In addition, the Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Our business could be materially harmed by any changes in the political, legal or economic climate in China or the inability to enforce applicable Chinese laws and regulations. If the estimates we make and the assumptions on which we rely in preparing our financial statements prove inaccurate, our actual results may vary significantly. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, the amounts of charges taken by us and related disclosure. Such estimates and judgments include the carrying value of our property, equipment and intangible assets, revenue recognition, the value of certain liabilities, including the fair value of our warrant liability, and stock-based compensation expense. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, these estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time. Accordingly, our actual financial results may vary significantly from the estimates contained in our financial statements. For a further discussion of the estimates and judgments that we make and the critical accounting policies that affect these estimates and judgments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 33 Table of Contents Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including noncompliance with regulatory standards and requirements and insider trading. We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with FDA regulations, to provide accurate information to the FDA, to comply with manufacturing standards we have established, to comply with federal and state health-care fraud and abuse laws and regulations, to report financial information or data accurately or to disclose unauthorized activities to us. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, but it is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. In addition, during the course of our operations, our directors, executives and employees may have access to material, nonpublic information regarding our business, our results of operations or potential transactions we are considering. Despite our adoption of an Insider Trading Policy, we may not be able to prevent a director, executive or employee from trading in our common stock on the basis of, or while having access to, material, nonpublic information. If a director, executive or employee was to be investigated, or an action was to be brought against a director, executive or employee for insider trading, it could have a negative impact on our reputation and our stock price. Such a claim, with or without merit, could also result in substantial expenditures of time and money, and divert attention of our management team from other tasks important to the success of our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY We may not be able to obtain patent protection for our technologies and the patent protection we do obtain may not be sufficient to stop our competitors from using similar technology. The long-term success of our business depends in significant part on our ability to: • obtain patents to protect our technologies and discoveries; • protect trade secrets from disclosure to third-party competitors; • operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing on our proprietary rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and life science companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The laws, procedures and standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office and various foreign intellectual property offices use to grant patents, and the standards that courts use to interpret patents, are not always applied predictably or uniformly and have changed in significant ways and are expected to continue to change. Consequently, the level of protection, if any, that will be obtained and provided by our patents if we attempt to enforce them, and they are challenged, is uncertain. Patents may not issue from any of the patent applications that we own or license. If patents do issue, the type and extent of patent claims issued to us may not be sufficient to protect our technology from exploitation by our competitors. In addition, issued patents that we own or license may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and in many countries abroad are maintained in secrecy until 18 months after filing, it is possible that third parties have filed or maintained patent applications for technology used by us or covered by our pending patent applications without our knowledge. The U.S. Congress recently 34 Table of Contents passed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in September 2011. The America Invents Act reforms United States patent law in part by changing the standard for patent approval from a “first to invent” standard to a “first to file” standard and developing a post-grant review system. This new legislation changes United States patent law in a way that may weaken our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for future inventions in the United States. We may not have rights under patents that may cover one or more of our drug candidates. In some cases, these patents may be owned or controlled by third-party competitors and may prevent or impair our ability to exploit our technology. As a result, we or our current or potential future collaborative partners may be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents to develop and commercialize some of our drug candidates. If we are unable to secure licenses to such patented technology on acceptable terms, we or our collaborative partners may not be able to develop and commercialize the affected drug candidate or candidates. We may become involved in expensive and unpredictable patent litigation or other intellectual property proceedings, which could result in liability for damages or require us to cease our development and commercialization efforts. There are substantial litigation and other adversarial opposition proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and life science industries. We may become a party to patent litigation or other proceedings regarding intellectual property rights. Situations that may give rise to patent litigation or other disputes over the use of our intellectual property include: • initiation of litigation or other proceedings against third parties to enforce our patent rights, to seek to invalidate the patents held by these third parties or to obtain a judgment that our drug candidates do not infringe the third parties’ patents; • participation in interference and/or derivation proceedings to determine the priority of invention if our competitors file U.S. patent applications that claim technology also claimed by us; • initiation of opposition, reexamination, post grant review or inter partes review proceedings by third parties that seek to limit or eliminate the scope of our patent protection; • initiation of litigation by third parties claiming that our processes or drug candidates or the intended use of our drug candidates infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights; and • initiation of litigation by us or third parties seeking to enforce contract rights relating to intellectual property that may be important to our business. The costs associated with any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved favorably, will likely be substantial and a distraction to management. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the cost of such litigation or other proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. If a patent litigation or other intellectual property proceeding is resolved unfavorably, we or any collaborative partners may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our future products without a license from the other party and be held liable for significant damages. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain required licenses on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all. In addition, we could be held liable for lost profits if we are found to have infringed a valid patent, or liable for treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a valid patent. Litigation results are highly unpredictable and we or any collaborative partner may not prevail in any patent litigation or other proceeding in which we may become involved. Any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of the patent laws may adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could damage our ability to compete in the marketplace. 35 Table of Contents We face risks relating to the enforcement of our intellectual property rights in China that could adversely affect our business. Pursuant to our contract research agreement with a medicinal chemistry provider in China, we currently engage approximately 16 medicinal chemists in China to perform drug discovery research. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights under this arrangement through, among other things, non-disclosure and assignment of invention covenants. Implementation and enforcement of Chinese intellectual property-related laws has historically been inconsistent and damages assessed may fail to reflect the true value of the infringed technology and its market. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of Chinese courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditure of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. If we are unable to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and proprietary information may be used by others to compete against us. We rely significantly upon proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how that are not subject to patent protection. We seek to protect this information through confidentiality and intellectual property license or assignment provisions in agreements with our employees, consultants and other third-party contractors, including our contract research agreement with a medicinal chemistry provider in China, as well as through other security measures. The confidentiality and intellectual property provisions of our agreements and security measures may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to technology from third parties, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are party to agreements that provide for licenses to us of intellectual property or sharing of rights to intellectual property that is important to our business, and we may enter into additional agreements in the future that provide licenses to us of valuable technology. These licenses impose, and future licenses may impose, various commercialization, milestone and other obligations on us, including the obligation to terminate our use of patented subject matter under certain contingencies. If a licensor becomes entitled to, and exercises, termination rights under a license, we would lose valuable rights and could lose our ability to develop our products. We may need to license other intellectual property to commercialize future products. Our business may suffer if any current or future licenses terminate, if the licensors fail to abide by the terms of the license or fail to prevent infringement by third parties, if the licensed patents or other rights are found to be invalid or if we are unable to enter into necessary licenses on acceptable terms. We may be subject to claims that our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is common in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. 36 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO MANUFACTURING AND SALES We will depend on our collaborators and third-party manufacturers to produce most, if not all, of our products under development, and if these third parties do not successfully formulate or manufacture these products, our business will be harmed. We have no manufacturing experience or manufacturing capabilities. In order to continue to develop drug candidates, apply for regulatory approvals, and commercialize our products under development, we or any collaborators must be able to manufacture products in adequate clinical and commercial quantities, in compliance with regulatory requirements, including those related to quality control and quality assurance, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner. The manufacture of our drug candidates may be complex, difficult to accomplish and difficult to scale-up when large-scale production is required. Manufacture may be subject to delays, inefficiencies and poor or low yields of quality products. The cost of manufacturing some of our product candidates may make them prohibitively expensive. To the extent that we or any collaborators seek to enter into manufacturing arrangements with third parties, we and such collaborators will depend upon these third parties to perform their obligations in a timely and effective manner and in accordance with government regulations. Contract manufacturers may breach their manufacturing agreements because of factors beyond our and our collaborators’ control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us and our collaborators. Any contract manufacturers with whom we or our collaborators enter into manufacturing arrangements will be subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Any failure by our or our collaborators’ contract manufacturers, any collaborators, or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of drug candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of drug candidates, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. If we or a collaborator need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve any new manufacturers in advance. This would involve testing and pre-approval inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. If third-party manufacturers fail to perform their obligations, our competitive position and ability to generate revenue may be adversely affected in a number of ways, including; • we and any collaborators may not be able to initiate or continue certain preclinical and/or clinical trials of products that are under development; • we and any collaborators may be delayed in submitting applications for regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; and • we and any collaborators may not be able to meet commercial demands for any approved products. Because we rely on a limited number of suppliers for the raw materials used in our product candidates, any delay or interruption in the supply of such raw materials could lead to delays in the manufacture and supply of our product candidates. We rely on third parties to supply certain raw materials necessary to produce our drug candidates, including CUDC-101, for preclinical studies and clinical trials. There are a small number of suppliers for certain raw materials that we use to manufacture our drug candidates. Such suppliers may not sell these raw materials to us at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms, or delivery of these raw materials may be delayed or interrupted. Although we generally do not begin a preclinical study or clinical trial unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a drug candidate to complete such study or trial, any significant delay in the supply of raw 37 Table of Contents materials for our drug candidates for an ongoing clinical trial due to the need to replace a third-party supplier could considerably delay completion of certain preclinical studies and/or clinical trials. Moreover, if we were unable to purchase raw materials after regulatory approval had been obtained for our drug candidates, the commercial launch of our drug candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our drug candidates. We have no sales or marketing experience and, as such, plan to depend significantly on third parties who may not successfully market and sell any products we develop. We have no sales, marketing or product distribution experience. If we receive required regulatory approvals, we plan to rely primarily on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, including our collaborative partners. For example, as part of our agreements with Genentech and Debiopharm, we have granted Genentech and Debiopharm the exclusive rights to distribute certain products resulting from such collaborations, if any are ever successfully developed. We may have to enter into additional marketing arrangements in the future and we may not be able to enter into these additional arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. In addition, we may have limited or no control over the sales, marketing and distribution activities of these third parties and sales through these third parties could be less profitable to us than direct sales. These third parties could sell competing products and may devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. Our future revenues will be materially dependent upon the success of the efforts of these third parties. We may seek to independently market products that are not already subject to marketing agreements with other parties. If we determine to perform sales, marketing and distribution functions ourselves, we could face a number of additional risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant and skilled marketing staff or sales force; • the cost of establishing a marketing staff or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product; and • our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. Even if we successfully commercialize any products under development, either alone or in collaboration, we face uncertainty with respect to pricing, third-party reimbursement and healthcare reform, all of which could adversely affect the commercial success of our product candidates. Our ability to collect significant revenues from sales of our products, if commercialized successfully, may depend on our ability, and the ability of any current or potential future collaboration partners or customers, to obtain adequate levels of coverage and reimbursement for such products from third-party payers such as: • government health administration authorities; • private health insurers; • health maintenance organizations; • pharmacy benefit management companies; and • other healthcare-related organizations. Third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. For example, third-party payers may deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement if they determine that a prescribed product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA, or foreign equivalent, or other government regulators, is not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods as determined by the third-party payer, or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. Prices could also be driven down by health maintenance organizations that control or significantly influence purchases of healthcare services and products. If third-party payers deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement, we or any collaborators may not be able to market our products effectively or we may be required to offer our products at prices lower than anticipated. 38 Table of Contents In both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our potential products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we refer to as the PPACA. This legislation may have far reaching consequences for life science companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, biopharmaceuticals and medical devices. If reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less that we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. A number of states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Health Care Reform Law, and many of these court challenges are still pending final adjudication. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. In addition, some details regarding the implementation of the PPACA are yet to be determined, and at this time, the full effect that the PPACA would have on our business remains unclear. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MPDIMA, reformed the way Medicare will cover and reimburse for pharmaceutical products. This legislation could also decrease the coverage and price that we may receive for our approved product candidates, if any. The cost-containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting and the results of healthcare reforms such as the PPACA and the MPDIMA may prevent us from maintaining prices for our approved product candidates that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, to the extent that our approved product candidates, if any, are marketed outside of the United States, foreign government pricing controls and other regulations may prevent us from maintaining prices for such products that are sufficient for us to realize profits and may otherwise significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may fluctuate significantly and the market price of our common stock could drop below the price paid. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and is likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, our stock traded within a range of a high price of $5.65 and a low price of $1.97 per share for the period January 1, 2011 through February 24, 2012. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility with respect to pharmaceutical and biotechnology company stocks. Prices for our stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including: • announcements regarding new technologies by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors; • rumors relating to us or our collaborators or competitors; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results and any subsequent restatement of such results; 39 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated changes to our research and development plans; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; • entering into new collaboration agreements or termination of existing collaboration agreements; • adverse results or delays in clinical trials being conducted by us or any collaborators; • any intellectual property or other lawsuits involving us; • third-party sales of large blocks of our common stock; • sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors or significant stockholders; • equity sales by us of our common stock to fund our operations; • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel; • FDA or international regulatory actions; and • general economic and market conditions, including recent adverse changes in the domestic and international financial markets. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the price of our common stock, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant variations in price during any given period of time. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect an investor’s ability to sell our shares at a satisfactory price and makes the trading price of our common stock more volatile. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 77.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the prior 90 trading days ending on December 31, 2011 was approximately 383,000 shares. A more active public market for our common stock may not develop, which would continue to adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Moreover, common stock with a thin trading market may experience greater price fluctuation than the stock market as a whole. Without a large float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. Future sales of shares of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of currently outstanding options and warrants or pursuant to our universal shelf registration statement could result in dilution to our stockholders and negatively affect our stock price. Most of our outstanding common stock can be traded without restriction at any time. As such, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares intend to sell such shares, could reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, we have a significant number of shares that are subject to outstanding options and warrants and in the future we may issue additional options, warrants or other derivative securities convertible into our common stock. The exercise of any such options, warrants or other derivative securities, and the subsequent sale of the underlying common stock could cause a further decline in our stock price. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 40 Table of Contents Furthermore, as of December 31, 2011, we have outstanding warrants to purchase 1,610,818 shares of our common stock that contain antidilution adjustment provisions that will result in a decrease in the price and an increase in the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants in the event of certain issuances of common stock by us at prices below $3.55 per share. For example, assuming that we issued and sold shares of common stock in a public offering at $3.00 per share, these warrants would become exercisable for an aggregate of 1,630,532 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $3.51 per share, which is equal to an aggregate of additional 19,714 shares as a result of the adjustment. To the extent that we are required to adjust the price and number of shares underlying these warrants as a result of this antidilution clause, and thereafter such warrants are exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued that will be eligible for resale in the public market, which could result in added dilution to our security holders and could also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We currently have on file with the SEC a “universal” shelf registration statement which allows us to offer and sell registered common stock, preferred stock and warrants from time to time pursuant to one or more offerings at prices and terms to be determined at the time of sale. For example, in June 2011 we entered into an agreement with MLV pursuant to which, from time to time, we may offer and sell up to $20 million of the common stock that was registered on this shelf registration statement through MLV pursuant to one or more “at the market” offerings. In addition, with our prior written approval, MLV may also sell these shares of common stock by any other method permitted by law, including in privately negotiated transactions. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock or other securities under this registration statement could lower the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity securities. Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives, and if our independent registered public accounting firm is required to provide an attestation report on our internal controls but is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain (i) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (ii) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and (iii) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. To achieve compliance with Section 404 within the prescribed period, we will be engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, hire additional employees for our finance and audit functions, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, (ii) continue steps to improve control processes where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented, and (iv) implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. In addition, in connection with the attestation process by our independent registered public accounting firm, if required, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving a favorable attestation. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and our stock price could decline. 41 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. There are currently nine research analysts that publish research coverage related to Curis. These securities and industry analysts may not maintain such coverage or we may fail to obtain research coverage by additional securities and industry analysts. If we do not maintain such existing coverage, and additional securities or industry analysts do not commence coverage of our company, the trading price for our stock may be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, interest in our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and any return to investors will come, if at all, only from potential increases in the price of our common stock. At the present time, we intend to use available funds to finance our operations. Accordingly, while payment of dividends rests within the discretion of our board of directors, no common stock dividends have been declared or paid by us and we have no intention of paying any common stock dividends in the foreseeable future. Insiders have substantial influence over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of December 31, 2011, we believe that our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates, owned, in the aggregate, approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, will be able to exert influence over the management and affairs of our company and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable and the market price of our common stock may be lower as a result. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may have the effect of deterring unsolicited takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control of our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. In addition, these provisions may limit the ability of stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. For example, we have divided our board of directors into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms, we may issue shares of our authorized “blank check” preferred stock and our stockholders are limited in their ability to call special stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. These provisions could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control transaction. 42 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 