ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other factors set forth herein, below is a discussion of certain factors that may affect our financial operations and should be considered in evaluating us: Our Southern California business focus and economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. Hanmi Bank’s operations are located primarily in Los Angeles and Orange counties. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in Hanmi Bank’s market area, or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of Hanmi Bank’s loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations. Our concentrations in commercial real estate loans located primarily in Southern California could have adverse effects on credit quality. Approximately 35.5 percent of the Bank’s loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate and construction loans, primarily in Southern California. As a result of this concentration, a deterioration of the Southern California commercial real estate market could have adverse consequences for the Bank. Among the factors that could contribute to such a decline are general economic conditions in Southern California, interest rates and local market construction and sales activity. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive Federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. Further, Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, in making loans and attracting and retaining employees. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in 18 Table of Contents regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may differ depending upon the nature and level of competition. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 