ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks that may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also adversely impact our financial condition, business operations and results of operations. Our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm in their audit report for fiscal year 2009 has expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Continued operations may depend on our ability to comply with the terms of the Order and the financing or other capital required to do so may not be available or may not be available on acceptable terms. Our audited financial statements were prepared under the assumption that we will continue our operations on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the discharge of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if we are unable to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a going concern, our shareholders will lose some or all of their investment in Hanmi Financial. We, and our independent registered public accounting firm, have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Management and our independent registered public accountants have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the allowance for loan losses. The identified deficiency that was considered a material weakness related to management’s policies and procedures for the monitoring and timely evaluation of and revision to management’s approach for assessing credit risk inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio to reflect changes in the economic environment. While we are taking steps to address the identified material weakness and prevent additional material weaknesses from occurring, there is no guarantee that these steps will be sufficient to remediate the identified material weakness or prevent additional material weaknesses from occurring. If we fail to remediate the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations and our financial statements may contain material misstatements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our operations may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As part of the recently issued DFI Final Order, the Bank is also required to increase its capital and maintain certain regulatory capital ratios prior to certain dates specified in the Order. By July 31, 2010, the Bank will be required to increase its contributed equity capital by not less than an additional $100 million. The Bank will be required to maintain a ratio of tangible shareholder’s equity to total tangible assets as follows: Ratio of Tangible Shareholder’s Date Equity to Total Tangible Assets By December 31, 2009 Not Less Than 7.0 Percent By July 31, 2010 Not Less Than 9.0 Percent From December 31, 2010 and Until the Order is Terminated Not Less Than 9.5 Percent We have also committed to the FRB to adopt a consolidated capital plan to augment and maintain a sufficient capital position. Our existing capital resources may not satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future and may not be sufficient to offset any problem assets. Further, should our asset quality erode and require significant additional provision for credit losses, resulting in consistent net operating losses at the Bank, our capital levels will decline and we will need to raise capital to satisfy our agreements with the Regulators. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us. Inability to raise additional capital when needed, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. On June 12, 2009, and subsequently amended on July 31, 2009 and September 28, 2009, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with Leading Investment & Securities Co., Ltd., a Korean securities broker-dealer (“LIS”), providing for the sale of 8,079,612 unregistered shares of Hanmi Financial common stock to LIS at a purchase price of $1.37 per share, resulting in gross proceeds of $11.1 million. The initial phase of this transaction was completed on September 4, 2009, resulting in an initial investment by LIS of $6.8 million. It is not expected that the remainder of this transaction will be completed. Inability to raise additional capital through other sources when needed, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In addition, if we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares, our stock price could be adversely affected, depending on the terms of any shares we were to issue. We are restricted from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits that are substantially higher than the prevailing rates in our market. Due to the Bank’s total risk-based capital ratio that was 9.07 percent as of December 31, 2009 coupled with the regulatory enforcement action with specific capital provisions, the Bank is considered to be “adequately capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. Section 29 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) limits the use of brokered deposits by institutions that are less than “well-capitalized” and allows the FDIC to place restrictions on interest rates that institutions may pay. Accordingly, we are restricted from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates in our market. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. The Bank is subject to additional regulatory oversight as a result of a formal regulatory enforcement action issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the California Department of Financial Institutions. The Bank was subject to an informal supervisory agreement (a MOU) with the FRB of San Francisco and the California Department of Financial Institutions to address certain issues raised in the Bank’s regulatory examination by the DFI on March 10, 2008. The material terms of the MOU are discussed in “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15 - - Regulatory Matters.” As a result of the Bank’s recently completed examination by the FRB and DFI, on November 2, 2009, the members of the Board of Directors of the Bank consented to the issuance of the Order from the DFI. On the same date, Hanmi Financial and the Bank entered into the Agreement with the FRB. The Order and the Agreement contain substantially similar provisions which are described in greater detail in this “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15 — Regulatory Matters.” Under the terms of the Order and Agreement, which were issued and became effective on November 2, 2009, the Bank is required to implement certain corrective and remedial measures under strict time frames and we can offer no assurance that the Bank will be able to meet the deadlines imposed by the regulatory orders. The Order and Agreement will remain in effect until modified, terminated, suspended or set aside by the FRB and DFI, as applicable. These regulatory actions will remain in effect until modified, terminated, suspended or set aside by the FRB or the DFI, as applicable. Failure to comply with the terms of these regulatory actions within the applicable time frames provided could result in additional orders or penalties from the FRB and the DFI, which could include further restrictions on our business, assessment of civil money penalties on us and the Bank, as well as our respective directors, officers and other affiliated parties, termination of deposit insurance, removal of one or more officers and/or directors, the liquidation or other closure of the Bank and our ability to continue as a going concern. Generally, these enforcement actions will be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. We may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions in the event that our regulatory capital levels continue to decline. Although we and the Bank both qualified as “adequately capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action as of December 31, 2009, the additional regulatory restrictions resulting from the decline in our capital category, or any further decline, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern. 32 Table of Contents If a state member bank is classified as undercapitalized, the bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the Federal Reserve. Pursuant to FDICIA, an undercapitalized bank is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the Federal Reserve of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Furthermore, if a state non-member bank is classified as undercapitalized, the FDIC may take certain actions to correct the capital position of the bank; if a bank is classified as significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized, the Federal Reserve would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions. These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital; improvements in management; limits on interest rates paid; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; termination of certain risky activities and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers. If a bank is classified as critically undercapitalized, FDICIA requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within 90 days, unless the Federal Reserve determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of FDICIA regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks. Under FDICIA, banks may be restricted in their ability to accept broker deposits, depending on their capital classification. “Well-capitalized” banks are permitted to accept broker deposits, but all banks that are not well-capitalized could be restricted to accept such deposits. The FDIC may, on a case-by-case basis, permit banks that are adequately capitalized, such as the Bank, to accept broker deposits if the FDIC determines that acceptance of such deposits would not constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice with respect to the bank. These restrictions could materially and adversely affect our ability to access lower costs funds and thereby decrease our future earnings capacity. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. Our inability to obtain regulatory consent to accept or renew brokered deposits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern. Finally, the capital classification of a bank affects the frequency of examinations of the bank, the deposit insurance premiums paid by such bank, and the ability of the bank to engage in certain activities, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or future prospects and our ability to continue as a going concern. Under FDICIA, the FDIC is required to conduct a full-scope, on-site examination of every bank at least once every twelve months. An exception to this rule is made, however, that provides that banks (i) with assets of less than $100.0 million, (ii) are categorized as “well-capitalized,” (iii) were found to be well managed and its composite rating was outstanding and (iv) has not been subject to a change in control during the last twelve months, need only be examined by the FDIC once every 18 months. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors, which may diminish our ability to raise additional capital. 33 Table of Contents Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be assured of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. Inability to raise additional capital when needed, raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by an inability to access the capital markets, unforeseen or extraordinary demands on cash, or regulatory restrictions, which could, among other things, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern. 34 Table of Contents If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations and prospects as a going concern. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA and on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the ARRA in response to the current crisis in the financial sector. The Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and the ARRA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and the ARRA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital and credit or the value of our securities. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Global capital markets and economic conditions continue to be adversely affected and the resulting disruption has been particularly acute in the financial sector. Our capital ratios have been adversely affected and the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers realize the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. We have recently experienced an unexpected loss in our key management. Our Chief Credit Officer passed away in October 2009. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract key people who are qualified and have knowledge and experience in the banking industry in our markets and to retain those people to successfully implement our business objectives. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to maintain consistent personnel in management could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may be required to make additional provisions for credit losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a $196.4 million provision for credit losses and charged off $125.4 million in loans, net of $2.8 million in recoveries. There has been a general slowdown in the economy and in particular, in the housing market in areas of Southern California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to a financial strain on homebuilders and suppliers, as well as an overall decrease in the collateral value of real estate securing loans. As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.0 billion in commercial real estate, construction and residential property loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential property and construction segment in particular could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. 35 Table of Contents Changes in economic conditions could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by changes in economic conditions, including finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2009, the economic conditions in the markets in which our borrowers operate deteriorated and the levels of loan delinquency and defaults that we experienced were substantially higher than historical levels. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, it may exacerbate the following consequences: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value. Our Southern California business focus and economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. The Bank’s operations are located primarily in Los Angeles and Orange counties. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. The continued deterioration in economic conditions in the Bank’s market areas, or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations. Our concentration in commercial real estate loans located primarily in Southern California could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank’s loan portfolio included commercial real estate and construction loans, primarily in Southern California, totaling $965.9 million, or 34.2 percent of total gross loans. Because of this concentration, a continued deterioration of the Southern California commercial real estate market could exacerbate adverse consequences for the Bank. Among the factors that could contribute to such a continued decline are general economic conditions in Southern California, interest rates and local market construction and sales activity. Our concentration in commercial and industrial loans could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank’s loan portfolio included commercial and industrial loans, primarily in Southern California, totaling $1.71 billion, or 60.8 percent of total gross loans. Because of this concentration, a continued deterioration of the Southern California economy could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, which could have adverse consequences for the Bank. Our concentrations of loans in certain industries could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank’s loan portfolio included loans to: 1) lessors of non-residential buildings totaling $417.3 million, or 14.8 percent of total gross loans; 2) borrowers in the accommodation industry totaling $413.4 million, or 14.7 percent of total gross loans; and 3) gas stations totaling $343.1 million, or 12.2 percent of total gross loans. Most of these loans are in Southern California. Because of these concentrations of loans in specific industries, a continued deterioration of the Southern California economy overall, and specifically within these industries, could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, which could have adverse consequences for the Bank. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As described herein, the Bank substantially increased its provision for credit losses in 2009, 2008 and 2007, as compared to previous years, as a result of increases in historical loss factors, increased charge-offs and migration of more loans into more adverse risk categories. 36 Table of Contents Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current historically low interest rate environment resulted by the response to the financial market crisis and the global economic recession in 2008 may affect our operating earnings negatively. We must manage our funding resources to enable us to meet our ongoing operations costs and our deposit and borrowing obligations as they come due. Liquidity is essential to our business and any inability to raise funds could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Sources of funds to meet our operating needs and obligations include deposits; interest and fee income on loans and other products and services; earnings on our investment securities portfolio; revenue from the sale or securitization of loans; new capital infusions and borrowings, such as from the FHLB. Adverse regulatory developments or a decline in our financial condition or a decline in financial market conditions generally, such as the recent turmoil faced by depository financial institutions in the domestic and worldwide credit markets, or a decline in the financial condition of the FHLB, could have a significant impact on our ability to meet our liquidity needs, including our ability to attract deposits in an increasingly competitive environment. We cannot forecast if or when market liquidity conditions will improve from current stresses, although it is our expectation that the existing turmoil in the financial and credit markets may continue to affect its performance at least throughout 2010. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short-term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to the Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, making loans, and attracting and retaining employees. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may differ depending upon the nature and level of competition. The Bank is currently restricted from paying dividends to Hanmi Financial and Hanmi Financial is restricted from paying dividends to stockholders and from making any payments on its trust preferred securities. The primary source of Hanmi Financial’s income from which we pay Hanmi Financial obligations and distribute dividends to our stockholders is from the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. The Bank currently has deficit retained earnings and has suffered net losses in 2009 and 2008, largely caused by provision for credit losses and goodwill impairments. As a result, the California Financial Code does not provide authority for the Bank to declare a dividend to Hanmi Financial, with or without Commissioner approval. In addition, the Bank is prohibited from paying dividends to Hanmi Financial unless it receives prior regulatory approval. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Capital Resources and Liquidity.” Furthermore, Hanmi Financial has agreed that it will not pay any dividends or make any payments on our outstanding $82.4 million of trust preferred securities or any other capital distributions without the prior written consent of the FRB. We began to defer interest payment on our trust preferred securities commencing with the interest payment that was due on January 15, 2009. If we defer interest payments for more than 20 consecutive quarters under any of our outstanding trust preferred instruments, then we would be in default under such trust preferred arrangements and the amounts due under the agreements pursuant to which we issued our trust preferred securities would be immediately due and payable. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for a further discussion of restrictions on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Hanmi Financial. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. 38 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely because of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional stockholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors identified above in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation and potential delisting from The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (“Nasdaq”). Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. First, we have adopted a stock option plan that provides for the granting of stock options to our directors, executive officers and other employees. As of December 31, 2009, 743,958 shares of our common stock were issuable under options granted in connection with our stock option plans. In addition, 3,000,000 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuance to directors, officers and employees under our stock option plan. It is probable that the stock options will be exercised during their respective terms if the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the particular option. If the stock options are exercised, your share ownership will be diluted. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, but does not provide for preemptive rights to the holders of our common stock. Any authorized but unissued shares are available for issuance by our Board of Directors. As a result, if we issue additional shares of common stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes, you may be unable to maintain your pro rata ownership in Hanmi Financial. 39 Table of Contents Future sales of common stock by existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. As of December 31, 2009, there were 51,182,390 shares of our common stock outstanding, which are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws unless purchased or sold by our “affiliates” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding $82.4 million of trust preferred securities issued by our subsidiary trusts. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. The junior subordinated debentures underlying the trust preferred securities are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions and state and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, a classified board of directors, supermajority voting approval for certain actions, limitation on large stockholders taking certain actions and the authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone, thus without obtaining stockholder approval. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either FRB approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the FRB and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We may face other risks. From time to time, we detail other risks with respect to our business and/or financial results in our filings with the SEC. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 