Item 1A Risk Factors 20 Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 25 Item 2 Properties 26 Item 3 Legal Proceedings 26 Executive Officers of the Registrant 27 PART II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 27 Item 6 Selected Consolidated Financial Data 29 Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30 Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 59 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 60 Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition December 31, 2009 and 2008 61 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 62 Consolidated Statement of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) Three years ended December 31, 2009 63 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 64 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 66 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosures 95 Item 9A(T) Controls and Procedures 95 Management’s Report of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 95 Item 9B Other Information 96 PART III Item 10 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 96 Item 11 Executive Compensation 96 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 96 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 96 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 97 PART IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 97 Signatures S-1 Exhibits E-1 i Table of Contents FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this Report that are not historical facts or that discuss our expectations, beliefs or views regarding our future operations or future financial performance, or financial or other trends in our business or markets, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Often, they include the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may.” The information contained in such forward-looking statements is based on current information and assumptions about future events over which we do not have control and our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our financial condition or actual operating results in the future to differ significantly from our expected financial condition or operating results that are set forth in those forward-looking statements. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” in this Report. Due to these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may otherwise be required by applicable law or NASDAQ rules. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Background Pacific Mercantile Bancorp is a California corporation that owns 100% of the stock of Pacific Mercantile Bank, a California state chartered commercial bank (which, for convenience, will sometimes be referred to in this report as the “Bank”). The capital stock of the Bank is our principal asset and substantially all of our business operations are conducted by the Bank which, as a result, accounts for substantially all of our revenues and income. As the owner of a commercial bank, Pacific Mercantile Bancorp is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “Bank Holding Company Act”) and, as such, our operations are regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”). See “Supervision and Regulation” below in this Report. For ease of reference, we will sometimes use the terms “Company,” “we” or “us” in this Report to refer to Pacific Mercantile Bancorp on a consolidated basis and “PM Bancorp” or the “Bancorp” to refer to Pacific Mercantile Bancorp on a “stand-alone” or unconsolidated basis. The Bank, which is headquartered in Orange County, California, approximately 40 miles south of Los Angeles, conducts a commercial banking business in Orange, Los Angeles, San Bernardino and San Diego counties in Southern California. The Bank is also a member of the Federal Reserve System and its deposits are insured, to the maximum extent permitted by law, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (commonly known as the “FDIC”). At December 31, 2009, our total assets, net loans (which exclude loans held for sale) and total deposits had grown to $1.201 billion, $813 million and $960 million, respectively. Additionally, as of that date a total of approximately 11,000 deposit accounts were being maintained at the Bank by our customers, of which approximately 35% were business customers. Currently we operate eight full service commercial banking offices (which we refer to as “financial centers”) and an internet banking branch at www.pmbank.com. Due to the Bank’s internet presence, the Bank has customers who are located in 50 states and the District of Columbia, although the vast majority of our customers are located in Southern California. The Bank commenced business in March 1999, with the opening of its first financial center, located in Newport Beach, California, and in April 1999 it launched its internet banking site, at www.pmbank.com, where our customers are able to conduct many of their business and personal banking transactions, more conveniently and less expensively, with us, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We have achieved rapid growth in Southern California since then, opening the following seven additional financial centers between August 1999 and July, 2005: Banking and Financial Center County Date Opened for Business San Juan Capistrano, California(1) Orange August 1999 Costa Mesa, California Orange June 2001 Beverly Hills, California Los Angeles July 2001 La Jolla, California San Diego June 2002 La Habra, California Orange September 2003 Long Beach, California Los Angeles September 2004 Ontario, California San Bernardino July 2005 (1) This office was originally opened in San Clemente, California, and was relocated to San Juan Capistrano in 2006. 1 Table of Contents According to data published by the FDIC, at December 31, 2009 there were approximately 152 commercial banks operating with banking offices located in the counties of Los Angeles, Orange, San Diego, Riverside and San Bernardino in Southern California. Of those commercial banks, 16 had assets in excess of $2 billion; 113 had assets under $500 million (which are often referred to as “community banks”); 16 had assets between $500 million and $1 billion, and 7, including our Bank, had assets ranging between $1 billion and $2 billion. As a result, we believe that we are well-positioned to achieve further growth in Southern California. Our Business Strategy Our growth and expansion are the result of our adherence to a business plan which was created by our founders, who include both experienced banking professionals and individuals who came out of the computer industry. That business plan is to build and grow a banking organization that offers its customers the best attributes of a community bank, which are personalized and responsive service, while taking advantage of advances in computer technology to reduce costs and at the same time extend the geographic coverage of our banking franchise, initially within Southern California, by opening additional financial centers and benefiting from opportunities that may arise in the future to acquire other banks. In furtherance of that strategy: • We offer at our financial centers and at our interactive internet banking website, a broad selection of financial products and services that address, in particular, the banking needs of business customers and professional firms, including services that are typically available only from larger banks in our market areas. • We provide a level of convenience and access to banking services that we believe are not typically available from the community banks with which we compete, made possible by the combination of our full service financial centers and the internet banking capabilities coupled with personal services we offer our customers. • We have built a technology and systems infrastructure that we believe will support the growth and further expansion of our banking franchise in Southern California. • We continue to review and analyze additional opportunities to further enhance our profitability including a return in 2009 to business of originating single family mortgage loans that qualify for resale into the secondary mortgage market. We plan to continue to focus our services and offer products primarily to small to mid-size businesses in order to achieve internal growth of our banking franchise. We believe this focus will enable us to grow our loans and other earning assets and increase our core deposits (consisting of non-interest bearing demand, and lower cost savings and money market deposits), with the goal of increasing our net interest margins and improving our profitability. We also believe that, with our technology systems in place, we have the capability to significantly increase the volume of banking transactions without having to incur the cost or disruption of a major computer enhancement program. During the second quarter of 2009, we commenced a new mortgage banking business to originate residential real estate mortgage loans for resale into the secondary mortgage markets. 2 Table of Contents Our Commercial Banking Operations We seek to meet the banking needs of small and moderate size businesses, professional firms and individuals by providing our customers with: • A broad range of loan and deposit products and banking and financial services, more typical of larger banks, in order to gain a competitive advantage over independent or community banks that do not provide the same range or breadth of services that we are able to provide to our customers; • A high level of personal service and responsiveness, more typical of independent and community banks, which we believe gives us a competitive advantage over large out-of-state and other large multi-regional banks that are unable, or unwilling, due to the expense involved, to provide that same level of personal service to this segment of the banking market; and • The added flexibility, convenience and efficiency of conducting banking transactions with us over the Internet, which we believe further differentiates us from many of the community banks with which we compete and enables us to reduce the costs of providing services to our customers. Deposit Products Deposits are a bank’s principal source of funds for making loans and acquiring other interest earning assets. Additionally, the interest expense that a bank must incur to attract and maintain deposits has a significant impact on its operating results. A bank’s interest expense, in turn, will be determined in large measure by the types of deposits that it offers to and is able to attract from its customers. Generally, banks seek to attract “core deposits” which consist of demand deposits that bear no interest and low cost interest-bearing checking, savings and money market deposits. By comparison, time deposits (also sometimes referred to as “certificates of deposit”), including those in denominations of $100,000 or more, usually bear much higher interest rates and are more interest-rate sensitive and volatile than core deposits. A bank that is not able to attract significant amounts of core deposits must rely on more expensive time deposits or alternative sources of cash, such as Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, to fund interest-earning assets, which means that its costs of funds will be higher and, as a result, its net interest margin is likely to be lower than a bank with higher proportion of core deposits. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Results of Operations-Net Interest Income.” The following table sets forth information regarding the composition, by type deposits maintained by our customers during the year ended and as of December 31, 2009: Year-to-DateAverage BalanceDecember 31,2009 Balance atDecember 31,2009 (In thousands) Type of Deposit Noninterest-bearing checking accounts $ 165,709 $ 183,789 Interest-bearing checking accounts(1) 28,136 40,238 Money market and savings deposits(1) 108,583 114,730 Certificates of deposit(2) 594,885 621,681 Totals $ 897,313 $ 960,438 (1) Includes savings accounts and money market accounts. Excludes money market deposits maintained at the Bank by PM Bancorp with an annual average balance of $6.3 million for the year ended and a balance of $7.0 million at December 31, 2009. (2) Comprised of time certificates of deposit in varying denominations under and over $100,000. Excludes certificates of deposit maintained by PM Bancorp at the Bank with an average balance of $250,000 for the year ended and a balance at December 31, 2009 of $250,000. 3 Table of Contents Loan Products We offer our customers a number of different loan products, including commercial loans and credit lines, accounts receivable and inventory financing, SBA guaranteed business loans, commercial real estate and consumer loans. The following table sets forth the types and the amounts of our loans that were outstanding: At December 31, 2009 Amount Percent of Total (Dollars in thousands) Commercial loans $ 290,406 34.8 % Commercial real estate loans – owner occupied 179,682 21.5 % Commercial real estate loans – all other 135,152 16.2 % Residential mortgage loans – multi-family 101,961 12.2 % Residential mortgage loans – single family 67,023 8.0 % Construction loans 20,443 2.6 % Land development loans 30,042 3.6 % Consumer loans 9,370 1.1 % Gross loans $ 834,079 100.0 % Commercial Loans The commercial loans we offer generally include short-term secured and unsecured business and commercial loans with maturities ranging from 12 to 24 months, accounts receivable financing for terms of up to 18 months, equipment and automobile term loans and leases which generally amortize over a period of up to 7 years, and SBA guaranteed business loans with terms of up to 10 years. The interest rates on these loans generally are adjustable and usually are indexed to The Wall Street Journal’s prime rate. However, since 2003 it generally has been our practice to establish an interest rate floor on a best effort basis on our commercial loans, generally ranging from 5.0% to 6.0%. In order to mitigate the risk of borrower default, we generally require collateral to support the credit or, in the case of loans made to businesses, personal guarantees from their owners, or both. In addition, all such loans must have well-defined primary and secondary sources of repayment. Generally, lines of credit are granted for no more than a 12-month period. Commercial loans, including accounts receivable financing, generally are made to businesses that have been in operation for at least three years. To qualify for such loans, prospective borrowers generally must have debt-to-net worth ratios not exceeding 4-to-1, operating cash flow sufficient to demonstrate the ability to pay obligations as they become due, and good payment histories as evidenced by credit reports. We also offer asset-based lending products, which involve a higher degree of risk, because they generally are made to businesses that are growing rapidly, but cannot internally fund their growth without borrowings. These loans are collateralized primarily by the borrower’s accounts receivable and inventory. We control our risk by generally requiring loan-to-value ratios of not more than 80% and by closely and regularly monitoring the amount and value of the collateral in order to maintain that ratio. Commercial loan growth is important to the growth and profitability of our banking franchise because, although not required to do so, commercial loan borrowers often establish noninterest-bearing (demand) and interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts and banking services relationships with us. Those deposit accounts help us to reduce our overall cost of funds and those banking services relationships provide us with a source of non-interest income. Commercial Real Estate Loans The majority of our commercial real estate loans are secured by first trust deeds on nonresidential real property. Loans secured by nonresidential real estate often involve loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers, and generally involve a greater risk of nonpayment than do mortgage loans secured by multi-family dwellings. Payments on these loans depend to a large degree on the results of operations and cash flows of the borrowers, which are generated from a wide variety of businesses and industries. As a result, repayment of these loans can be affected adversely by changes in the economy in general or by the real estate market more specifically. Accordingly, the nature of this type of loan makes it more difficult to monitor and evaluate. Consequently, we typically require personal guarantees from the owners of the businesses to which we make such loans. 4 Table of Contents Customers desiring to obtain a commercial real estate loans are required to have good payment records with a debt coverage ratio generally of at least 1.25 to 1. In addition, we require adequate insurance on the properties securing those loans to protect the collateral value. These loans are generally adjustable rate loans with interest rates tied to a variety of independent indexes. However, in some instances, the interest rates on these loans are fixed for an initial five year period and then adjust thereafter based on an applicable index. These loans are generally written for terms of up to 10 years, with loan-to-value ratios of not more than 75% in the case of owner occupied properties and 65% on non-owner occupied properties. Residential Mortgage Loans Residential mortgage loans consist primarily of loans that are secured by first trust deeds on apartment buildings or other multi-family dwellings. The Bank makes loans secured by single-family residential properties which are held for sale. The Bank will generate a minimum percentage of loans held for investment. The majority of loans are held for sale to third-party investors. We make multi-family residential mortgage loans primarily in Los Angeles and Orange Counties for terms up to 30 years. These loans generally are adjustable rate loans with interest rates tied to a variety of independent indexes; although in some cases these loans have fixed interest rates for an initial five-year period and adjust thereafter based on an applicable index. These loans generally have interest rate floors, payment caps, and prepayment penalties. The loans are underwritten based on a variety of borrower and property criteria. Borrower criteria include liquidity and cash flow analysis and credit history verifications. Property criteria generally include loan to value limits under 75% and debt coverage ratios of 1.20 to 1 or greater. Single-family mortgages consist principally of fixed adjustable rate mortgages, except that some of the loans have fixed interest rates for the initial five years of the loan term and adjust thereafter. The majority of these loans have been made to finance the purchase of, or it refinance of existing loans on, owner-occupied homes. Real Estate Construction and Land Development Loans The Bank is not currently active in construction lending. Consumer Loans We offer a variety of loan and credit products to consumers including personal installment loans, lines of credit, credit cards, and to high net-worth individuals for estate planning based upon cash surrender value life insurance. We design these products to meet the needs of our customers, and some are made at fixed rates of interest and others at adjustable rates of interest. Consumer loans often entail greater risk than real estate mortgage loans, particularly in the case of consumer loans which are unsecured or are secured by rapidly depreciable assets, such as automobiles, that may not provide an adequate source of repayment in the event of a default by the consumer. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s ongoing financial stability. Furthermore, in the event a consumer files for bankruptcy protection, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws may limit the amount which can be recovered on such loans. To qualify for a consumer loan a prospective borrower must have a good payment record and, typically, debt ratios of not more than 45%. Consumer loans and credit products are important because consumers are a source of noninterest-bearing checking accounts and low cost savings deposits. Additionally, banking relationships with consumers tend to be stable and longer lasting than banking relationships with businesses, which tend to be more sensitive to price competition. Business Banking Services We offer various banking and financial services designed primarily for our business banking customers. Those services include: • Financial management tools and services that include multiple account control, account analysis, transaction security and verification, wire transfers, bill payment, payroll and lock box services, most of which are available at our Internet website, www.pmbank.com; and • Automated clearinghouse (ACH) origination services which enable businesses that charge for their services or products on a recurring monthly or other periodic basis, to obtain payment from their customers through an automatic, pre-authorized debit from their customers’ bank accounts anywhere in the United States. 5 Table of Contents Convenience Banking Services We also offer a number of services and products that make it more convenient to conduct banking transactions, such as Internet banking services, ATMs, night drop services, courier and armored car services that enable our business customers to order and receive cash without having to travel to our banking offices, and Remote Deposit Capture (PMB Xpress Deposit) which enables business customers to image checks they receive for electronic deposit at the Bank, thereby eliminating the need for customers to travel to our offices to deposit checks into their accounts. Internet Banking Services Our customers can securely access our internet bank at www.pmbank.com to: • Use financial cash management services • View account balances and account history • Transfer funds between accounts • Pay bills and order wire transfers of funds • Transfer funds from credit lines to deposit accounts • Make loan payments • Print bank statements • Place stop payments • Purchase certificates of deposit Security Measures Our ability to provide customers with secure and uninterrupted financial services is of paramount importance to our business. We believe our computer banking systems, services and software meet the highest standards of bank and electronic systems security. The following are among the security measures that we have implemented: Bank-Wide Security Measures • Service Continuity. In order to better ensure continuity of service, we have located our critical servers and telecommunications systems at an offsite hardened and secure data center. This center provides the physical environment necessary to keep servers up and running 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This data center has raised floors, temperature control systems with separate cooling zones, seismically braced racks, and generators to keep the system operating during power outages and has been designed to withstand fires and major earthquakes. The center also has a wide range of physical security features, including smoke detection and fire suppression systems, motion sensors, and 24x7 secured access, as well as video camera surveillance and security breach alarms. The center is connected to the Internet by redundant high speed data circuits with advanced capacity monitoring. • Physical Security. All servers and network computers reside in secure facilities. Only employees with proper identification may enter the primary server areas. • Monitoring. All customer transactions on our internet servers and internal computer systems produce one or more entries into transactional logs. Our personnel routinely review these logs as a means of identifying and taking appropriate action with respect to any abnormal or unusual activity. We believe that, ultimately, vigilant monitoring is the best defense against fraud. Internet Security Measures We maintain electronic and procedural safeguards that comply with federal regulations to guard nonpublic personal information. We regularly assess and update our systems to improve our technology for protecting information. On our website, the security measures include: • Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol, • Digital certificates, • Multi-factor authentication (MFA), • Intrusion detection systems, and 6 Table of Contents • Firewall protection. We believe the risk of fraud presented by providing internet banking services is not materially different from the risk of fraud inherent in any banking relationship. Potential security breaches can arise from any of the following circumstances: • misappropriation of a customer’s account number or password; • compromise of the customer’s computer system (s); • penetration of our servers by an outside “hacker;” • fraud committed by a new customer in completing his or her loan application or opening a deposit account with us; and • fraud committed by employees or service providers. Both traditional banks and internet banks are vulnerable to these types of fraud. By establishing the security measures described above, we believe we can minimize, to the extent practicable, our vulnerability to the first three types of fraud. To counteract fraud by employees and service providers, we have established internal procedures and policies designed to ensure that, as in any bank, proper control and supervision is exercised over employees and service providers. We also maintain insurance to protect us from losses due to fraud committed by employees. Additionally, the adequacy of our security measures is reviewed periodically by the Federal Reserve Board and the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”), which are the federal and state government agencies, respectively, with supervisory authority over the Bank. We also retain the services of third party computer security firms to conduct periodic tests of our computer and internet banking systems to identify potential threats to the security of our systems and to recommend additional actions that we can take to improve our security measures. Competition Competitive Conditions in the Traditional Banking Environment The banking business in California generally, and in our service area in particular, is highly competitive and is dominated by a relatively small number of large multi-state and California-based banks that have numerous banking offices operating over wide geographic areas. We compete for deposits and loans with those banks, with community banks that are based or have branch offices in our market areas, and with savings banks (also sometimes referred to as “thrifts”), credit unions, money market and other mutual funds, stock brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other traditional and nontraditional financial service organizations. We also compete for customers’ funds with governmental and private entities issuing debt or equity securities or other forms of investments which may offer different and potentially higher yields than those available through bank deposits. Major financial institutions that operate throughout California and that have offices in our service areas include Bank of America, Wells Fargo Bank, Chase, Union Bank of California, Bank of the West, U. S. Bancorp, Comerica Bank and Citibank. Larger independent banks and other financial institutions with offices in our service areas include, among others, OneWest Bank, City National Bank, Citizens Business Bank, Manufacturers Bank, and California Bank and Trust. These banks, as well many other financial institutions in our service areas, have the financial capability to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift their resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. Many of them also offer diversified financial services which we do not presently offer directly. The larger banks and financial institutions also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits than our Bank. In order to compete with the banks and other financial institutions operating in our service areas, we rely on our ability to provide flexible, more convenient and more personalized service to customers, including Internet banking services and financial tools. At the same time, we: • emphasize personal contacts with existing and potential new customers by our directors, officers and other employees; • develop and participate in local promotional activities; and • seek to develop specialized or streamlined services for customers. To the extent customers desire loans in excess of our lending limits or services not offered by us, we attempt to assist them in obtaining such loans or other services through participations with other banks or assistance from our correspondent banks or third party vendors. 7 Table of Contents Competitive Conditions in Internet Banking There are a number of banks that offer services exclusively over the internet, such as E*TRADE Bank, and other banks, such as Bank of America and Wells Fargo Bank, that market their internet banking services to their customers nationwide. We believe that only the larger of the commercial banks with which we compete offer the comprehensive set of internet banking services that we offer to our customers. However, an increasing number of community banks offer internet banking services to their customers by relying on third party vendors to provide the functionality they need to provide such services. Additionally, many of the larger banks do have greater market presence and greater financial resources to market their internet banking services than do we. Moreover, new competitors and competitive factors are likely to emerge, particularly in view of the rapid development of internet commerce. On the other hand, there have been some recently published reports indicating that the actual rate of growth in the use of the internet banking services by consumers and businesses is lower than had been previously predicted and that many customers still prefer to be able to conduct at least some of their banking transactions at local banking offices. We believe that these findings support our strategic decision, made at the outset of our business, to offer customers the benefits of both traditional and internet banking services. We also believe that this strategy has been an important factor in our growth to date and will contribute to our growth in the future. See “BUSINESS — Our Business Strategy” earlier in this Section of this Report.” Impact of Economic Conditions, Government Policies and Legislation on our Business Government Monetary Policies. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, is affected to a significant extent by our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we generate on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest we pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities, such as borrowings. Our interest income and interest expense, and hence our net interest income, depends to a great extent on prevailing market rates of interest, which are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including inflation, recession and unemployment. Moreover, it is often difficult to predict, with any assurance, how changes in economic conditions will affect our future financial performance. Our net interest income and operating results also are affected by monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and the policies of regulatory agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board implements national monetary policies to curb inflation, or to stimulate borrowing and spending in response to economic downturns, through its open-market operations by adjusting the required level of reserves that banks and other depository institutions must maintain, and by varying the target federal funds and discount rates on borrowings by banks and other depository institutions. These actions affect the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and the interest earned on interest-earning assets and paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The nature and impact of any future changes in monetary and fiscal policies on us cannot be predicted with any assurance. Legislation Generally. From time to time, federal and state legislation is enacted which can affect our operations and our operating results by materially increasing the costs of doing business, limiting or expanding the activities in which banks and other financial institutions may engage, or altering the competitive balance between banks and other financial services providers. Economic Conditions and Recent Legislation and Other Government Actions. The United States is experiencing a severe economic recession, which is reported to have begun at the end of 2007 and has created wide ranging consequences and difficulties for the banking and financial services industry, in particular, and the economy in general. The recession led to significant write-downs of the assets and an erosion of the capital of a large number of banks and other lending and financial institutions which, in turn, have significantly and adversely affected the operating results of banking and other financial institutions, many of which have reported losses for 2008 and 2009, and led to steep declines in their stock prices. In addition, bank regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in their bank examinations, which has resulted in the increased issuance of enforcement orders requiring action to address credit quality, liquidity and risk management and capital adequacy, as well as other safety and soundness concerns. All of these conditions, moreover, have led the U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury Department and the federal banking regulators, including the FDIC, to take broad actions, commencing in early September 2008, to address systemic risks and volatility in the U.S. banking system. In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was enacted which, among other measures, authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including, among other things: • Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; 8 Table of Contents • Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; and • A temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2013; Under the TARP, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program (“CPP”), pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that would serve as Tier 1 capital. We have elected not to participate in the CPP. In addition, participating banks and bank holding companies participating in Tarp are required to adopt certain restrictions with respect to the payment of executive compensation and certain standards of corporate governance. Generally, under the TARP CPP, the executive compensation restrictions apply to the participating institution’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executives. The governance standards include (i) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that can threaten the value of the financial institution; (ii) require “clawback” or disgorgement of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to have been materially inaccurate; (iii) limit the amount of severance compensation that may be paid to senior executives; and (iv) limit the amount of executive compensation that participating institutions may deduct for income tax purposes to $500,000 for each senior executive in any year. Following a systemic risk determination, the FDIC established a Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) on October 14, 2008. The TLGP includes the Transaction Account Guarantee Program (“TAGP”), which provided unlimited deposit insurance coverage through December 31, 2009 for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts (typically business checking accounts) and certain funds swept into noninterest-bearing savings accounts. Institutions participating in the TAGP were required to pay a 10 basis points fee (annualized) on the balance of each covered account in excess of $250,000, while the extra deposit insurance was in place. For the TAGP, the FDIC has authorized an extension period of January 1 through June 30, 2010, for institutions participating in the original TAGP unless an institution opts out of the extension period. During the extension period, fees increase to 15 to 25 basis points depending on an institution’s Risk Category for deposit insurance purposes. The TLGP also includes the Debt Guarantee Program (“DGP”), under which the FDIC guarantees certain senior unsecured debt of FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. The Bank made the business decision to participate in the TAGP, but not to participate in the DGP. The EESA also increased, through December 31, 2013, FDIC deposit insurance on most bank accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. In addition, the FDIC has implemented a program to provide deposit insurance for the full amount of most non-interest bearing transaction accounts through June 30, 2010 and another program to guarantee certain unsecured debt of financial institutions and their holding companies through June 2012. The FDIC charges “systemic risk special assessments” to those depository institutions that participate in this debt guarantee program and the FDIC has recently proposed that Congress give it expanded authority to charge fees to those holding companies which benefit directly and indirectly from the FDIC guarantees. Banking institutions had the option to opt out of either or both these two FDIC programs. We chose not to opt out of the transaction account deposit program. In February 2009, Congress approved and the President signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”). The primary purposes of the ARRA was to curb rising unemployment and restore confidence in the economy by (i) funding federal, state and local government infrastructure improvement and other public and private projects to create new jobs and (ii) reducing federal taxes paid by middle class taxpayers in order to stimulate increase spending, which had declined significantly as a result of the economic recession. However, the ARRA also imposed (i) additional restrictions and conditions on existing CPP participants and (ii) new restrictions and conditions on banks and bank holding companies that qualify for and elect to participate in the TARP CPP for the first time and on existing CPP participants that qualify for and elect to obtain additional TARP CCP funds. Such additional and new restrictions include prohibitions on the payment by CPP participants of any severance compensation to certain of their most highly compensated employees and place limitations on the bonus or incentive compensation that may be paid to those employees to no more than one-third of their annual cash compensation. 9 Table of Contents Recently Proposed Legislation. Moreover, the U.S. House of Representatives has approved and the U.S. Senate now has under consideration, new financial legislation that, if enacted, would overhaul the U.S. bank regulatory system and provide for additional regulatory oversight over banks and other financial institutions. According to its proponents, the legislation is designed to prevent a recurrence of the subprime mortgage and the bank liquidity crisis and the need for the U.S. Government to “bail out” large financial institutions. Among other things, if enacted in its present form, the legislation would reduce the number of federal regulatory agencies that regulate and oversee FDIC insured banks and other depository institutions and would establish a consumer protection agency to regulate and oversee consumer lending practices of and consumer financial products offered by banks and other financial service organizations. Moreover, it is likely that further legislation will be proposed and may be enacted to overhaul the bank regulatory system and provide for additional regulatory oversight of banks and other financial institutions. There is no assurance that this legislation and government programs that have been adopted and the additional restrictions that have been imposed on banking and other financial institutions, or any legislation, government programs or restrictions that may be adopted or implemented in the future, in response to the current recession and the mortgage foreclosure and credit crisis, will be successful in strengthening financial institutions, generating increased lending and stabilizing and strengthening the credit and financial and equity markets. Additionally, it is too soon to predict how such legislation, programs and restrictions will affect us, our operations or future financial performance or whether we will benefit from or be adversely affected by such legislation, programs or restrictions. Supervision and Regulation Both federal and state laws extensively regulate bank holding companies and banks. Such regulation is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund and is not for the benefit of shareholders. Set forth below is a summary description of the material laws and regulations that affect or bear on our operations. The description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the laws and regulations that are summarized below. Pacific Mercantile Bancorp General. Pacific Mercantile Bancorp is a registered bank holding company subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Pursuant to that Act, we are subject to supervision and periodic examination by, and are required to file periodic reports with, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board” or the “FRB”). As a bank holding company, we are allowed to engage, directly or indirectly, only in banking and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board deems to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Business activities designated by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking include securities brokerage services and products and data processing services, among others. As a bank holding company, we also are required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the acquisition of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities, or of substantially all of the assets, by merger or purchases of (i) any bank or other bank holding company and (ii) any other entities engaged in banking-related businesses or that provide banking-related services. Under Federal Reserve Board regulations, a bank holding company is required to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. In addition, it is the Federal Reserve Board’s policy that, in serving as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks, a bank holding company should stand ready to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and should maintain the financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional resources for assisting its subsidiary banks. For that reason, among others, the Federal Reserve Board requires all bank holding companies to maintain capital at or above certain prescribed levels. A bank holding company’s failure to meet these requirements will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve Board to be an unsafe and unsound banking practice or a violation of the Federal Reserve Board’s regulations or both, which could lead to the imposition of restrictions on the offending bank holding company, including restrictions on its further growth. See the discussion below under the caption “—Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action.” Additionally, among its powers, the Federal Reserve Board may require any bank holding company to terminate an activity or terminate control of, or liquidate or divest itself of, any subsidiary or affiliated company that the Federal Reserve Board determines constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of the bank holding company or any of its banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve Board also has the authority to regulate provisions of a bank holding company’s debt, including authority to impose interest ceilings and reserve requirements on such debt. Subject to certain 10 Table of Contents exceptions, bank holding companies also are required to file written notice and obtain approval from the Federal Reserve Board prior to purchasing or redeeming their common stock or other equity securities. A bank holding company and its non-banking subsidiaries also are prohibited from implementing so-called tying arrangements whereby customers may be required to use or purchase services or products from the bank holding company or any of its non-bank subsidiaries in order to obtain a loan or other services from any of the holding company’s subsidiary banks. The Company also is a bank holding company within the meaning of Section 3700 of the California Financial Code. As such, we are subject to examination by, and may be required to file reports with, the California Department of Financial Institutions (“DFI”). Regulatory Action Taken by the FRB and the DFI. In July 2009, the Company and the Bank entered into an informal supervisory agreement (commonly referred to as a “memorandum of understanding” or an “MOU”) with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (the “Reserve Bank”) and the DFI. An MOU is characterized by bank regulatory agencies as an informal action that is neither published nor made publicly available by the agencies and is used when circumstances warrant a milder form of action than a formal supervisory action, such as a formal written agreement or a cease and desist order. The stated objective of the MOU is to enable the Company and the Bank to maintain their financial soundness in what has been and continues to be very difficult economic and market environment. The MOU is intended to achieve that objective by requiring us to take actions to address certain issues which have arisen primarily as a result of the economic recession and credit crisis. Those actions, some of which are required of the Bank and others of which are required of the Company, fall into two basic categories: (i) actions designed to reduce the Bank’s non-performing loans and other real estate owned, which relate to, among other things, Board oversight procedures, credit risk management, loan policies, real property appraisal procedures, and policies and procedures relating to the allowance for loan losses, and (ii) actions designed to maintain capital and return the Company to profitability, including, among others, strategic planning and budgeting, capital and profit planning, and a requirement that the Company obtain prior regulatory approvals before taking actions that could reduce its capital or adversely affect its capital ratios, such as the payment by the Company of dividends on common stock or distributions on trust preferred securities or the payment of dividends by the Bank to the Bancorp, repurchases of shares and issuances of additional trust preferred securities by, or the incurrence or renewal of or increases in indebtedness of, the Bancorp. We are committed to taking these actions and resolving the issues raised in the MOU on a timely basis. Since the MOU became effective, in July 2009, we have taken actions to resolve or make progress on several of those issues, including raising additional equity capital from the sale of the Series A Shares, and both the Company and the Bank continue to be well-capitalized institutions. However, if we were to fail to comply with the terms of the MOU, or the Reserve Bank or DFI believe that further regulatory action against us is necessary, we may be subject to further requirements to take corrective action, face further regulation and intervention and additional constraints on our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. Financial Services Modernization Legislation. The Financial Services Modernization Act, which also is known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, was enacted into law in 1999. The principal objectives of that Act were to establish a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities and investment banking firms, and other financial service providers. Accordingly, the Act revised and expanded the Bank Holding Company Act to permit a bank holding company system, meeting certain specified qualifications, to engage in broader range of financial activities to foster greater competition among financial services companies. To accomplish those objectives, among other things, the Act repealed the two affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act that had been adopted in the early 1930s during the Depression: Section 20, which restricted the affiliation of Federal Reserve Member Banks with firms “engaged principally” in specified securities activities; and Section 32, which restricted officer, director, or employee interlocks between a member bank and any company or person “primarily engaged” in specified securities activities. The Financial Services Modernization Act also contains provisions that expressly preempt and make unenforceable any state law restricting the establishment of financial affiliations, primarily related to insurance. That Act also: • broadened the activities that may be conducted by national banks, bank subsidiaries of bank holding companies, and their financial subsidiaries; • provided an enhanced framework for protecting the privacy of consumer information; • adopted a number of provisions related to the capitalization, membership, corporate governance, and other measures designed to modernize the Federal Home Loan Bank system; • modified the laws governing the implementation of the Community Reinvestment Act (which is described in greater detail below); and • addressed a variety of other legal and regulatory issues affecting both day-to-day operations and long-term activities of banking institutions. 11 Table of Contents Before a bank holding company may engage in any of the financial activities authorized by that Act, it must file an application with its Federal Reserve Bank that confirms that it meets certain qualitative eligibility requirements established by the FRB. A bank holding company that meets those qualifications and files such an application will be designated as a “financial holding company”, as a result of which it will become entitled to affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities, primarily through non-banking subsidiaries, that are financial in nature or are incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature. According to current Federal Reserve Board regulations, activities that are financial in nature and may be engaged in by financial holding companies, through their non-bank subsidiaries, include: • securities underwriting; dealing and market making; • sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; • engaging in insurance underwriting and brokerage; and • engaging in merchant banking activities. A bank holding company that does not qualify as a financial holding company may not engage in such financial activities. Instead, as discussed above, it is limited to engaging in banking and such other activities that have been determined by the Federal Reserve Board to be closely related to banking. We have no current plans to engage in any activities not permitted to traditional bank holding companies, including those expressly permitted by the Financial Services Modernization Act and we are not a financial holding company. Privacy Provisions of the Financial Services Modernization Act. As required by the Financial Services Modernization Act, federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. Pursuant to the rules, financial institutions must provide: • initial notices to customers about their privacy policies, describing the conditions under which banks and other financial institutions may disclose non-public personal information about their customers to non-affiliated third parties and affiliates; • annual notices of their privacy policies to current customers; and • a reasonable method for customers to “opt out” of disclosures to nonaffiliated third parties. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (i) established requirements with respect to oversight and supervision of public accounting firms, and (ii) required the implementation of measures designed to improve corporate governance of companies with securities registered under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“public companies”) and which, therefore, apply to us. Among other things, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: • Provided for the establishment of a five-member oversight board, known as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”), which is appointed by the Securities and Exchange Commission and that is empowered to set standards for and has investigative and disciplinary authority over accounting firms that audit the financial statements of public companies. • Prohibits public accounting firms from providing various types of consulting services to their public company clients and requires accounting firms to rotate partners among public company clients every five years in order to assure that public accountants maintain their independence from managements of the companies whose financial statements they audit. • Increased the criminal penalties for financial crimes and securities fraud. • Requires public companies to implement disclosure controls and procedures designed to assure that material information regarding their business and financial performance is included in the public reports they file under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act Reports”). • Requires the chief executive and chief financial officers of public companies to certify as to the accuracy and completeness of the Exchange Act Reports that their companies file, the financial statements included in those Reports and the effectiveness of their disclosure procedures and controls. • Requires, pursuant to Section 404 of the Act, that (i) the chief executive and chief financial officer of a public company to test and certify to the effectiveness of their company’s internal control over financial reporting, and (ii) a public company’s outside auditors to independently test and issue a report as to whether the company’s internal control over its financial reporting is effective and whether there are any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in those financial controls. 12 Table of Contents • Requires a majority of the directors of public company to be independent of the company’s management and that the directors that serve on a public company’s audit committee meet standards of independence that are more stringent than those that apply to non-management directors generally. • Requires public companies whose publicly traded securities have a value in excess of $75 million to file their Exchange Act Reports on a more accelerated basis than had been required prior to the adoption of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. • Requires more expeditious reporting by directors and officers and other public company insiders regarding their trading in company securities. • Established statutory separations between investment banking firms and financial analysts. We have taken the actions required by, and we believe we are in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that are applicable to us, except as described below. Among other things, we have implemented disclosure controls and procedures and taken other actions to meet the expanded disclosure requirements and certification requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, such as testing our internal control over financial reporting. We also have determined that five of our six directors meet the independence requirements of, and that all members of our audit committee meet the more stringent standards of independence applicable to audit committee membership pursuant to, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result of findings by the Company’s federal and state regulatory agencies during the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company’s Audit Committee decided that the allowance for loan losses (“ALL”) should have been approximately $3.3 million higher, as of September 30, 2009. This decision led to the restatement of the Company’s September 30, 2009 financial statements. The regulators stated more consideration should have been given to certain qualitative factors in assessing the adequacy of the ALL as of September 30, 2009. Management assessed the effect of the aforementioned restatement and concluded a material weakness existed in the internal control over financial reporting and its disclosure controls and procedures. Consequently, management has modified its policies and procedures for assessing the adequacy of the Company’s ALL to give greater weight to the impact that qualitative factors can reasonably be expected to have on the performance and collectability of loans in our loan portfolio. The Bank continues to perform quarterly ALL analysis, and will take the regulatory findings into consideration during this process. The ALL continues to be reviewed at all levels of senior and executive management, and by the Board of Directors. Pacific Mercantile Bank General. Pacific Mercantile Bank (the “Bank”) is subject to primary supervision, periodic examination and regulation by (i) the Federal Reserve Board, which is its primary federal banking regulator, because the Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and (ii) the DFI, because the Bank is a California state chartered bank. The Bank also is subject to certain of the regulations promulgated by the FDIC, because its deposits are insured by the FDIC. Various requirements and restrictions under the Federal and California banking laws affect the operations of the Bank. These laws and the implementing regulations, which are promulgated by Federal and State regulatory agencies, cover most aspects of a bank’s operations, including the reserves a bank must maintain against deposits and for possible loan losses and other contingencies; the types of deposits it obtains and the interest it is permitted to pay on different types of deposit accounts; the loans and investments that a bank may make; the borrowings that a bank may incur; the number and location of banking offices that a bank may establish; the rate at which it may grow its assets; the acquisition and merger activities of a bank; the amount of dividends that a bank may pay; and the capital requirements that a bank must satisfy, which can determine the extent of supervisory control to which a bank will be subject by its federal and state bank regulators. A more detailed discussion regarding capital requirements that are applicable to us and the Bank is set forth below under the caption “Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action.” Permissible Activities and Subsidiaries. California law permits state chartered commercial banks to engage in any activity permissible for national banks. Those permissible activities include conducting many so-called “closely related to banking” or “nonbanking” activities either directly or through their operating subsidiaries. 13 Table of Contents Interstate Banking and Branching. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, bank holding companies and banks generally have the ability to acquire or merge with banks in other states; and, subject to certain state restrictions, banks may also acquire or establish new branches outside their home states. Interstate branches are subject to certain laws of the states in which they are located. The Bank presently does not have any interstate branches. Federal Home Loan Bank System. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of San Francisco. Among other benefits, each FHLB serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region and makes available loans or advances to its members. Each FHLB is financed primarily from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB system. As an FHLB member, the Bank is required to own a certain amount of capital stock in the FHLB. At December 31, 2009, the Bank was in compliance with the FHLB’s stock ownership requirement. Historically, the FHLB has paid dividends on its capital stock to its members. However, the FHLB did not pay any dividends on its capital stock in 2009, except for the second quarter of 2009, and there can be no assurance that the FHLB will pay dividends at the same rate it has paid in the past, or that it will pay any dividends, in the future. FRB Deposit Reserve Requirements. The Federal Reserve Board requires all federally-insured depository institutions to maintain noninterest bearing reserves at specified levels against their transaction accounts. At December 31, 2009, the Bank was in compliance with these requirements. If, as a result of an examination of a federally regulated bank, its primary federal bank regulatory agency, such as the Federal Reserve Board, were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, or other aspects of a bank’s operations had become unsatisfactory or that the bank or its management was in violation of any law or regulation, that agency has the authority to take a number of different remedial actions as it deems appropriate under the circumstances. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” banking practices; to require affirmative action to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice; to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced; to require the bank to increase its capital; to restrict the bank’s growth; to assess civil monetary penalties against the bank or its officers or directors; to remove officers and directors of the bank; and, if the federal agency concludes that such conditions cannot be corrected or there is an imminent risk of loss to depositors, to terminate a bank’s deposit insurance, which in the case of a California chartered bank would result in revocation of its charter and require it to cease its banking operations. Additionally, under California law the DFI has many of the same remedial powers with respect to the Bank, because it is a California state chartered bank. Dividends and Other Transfers of Funds. Cash dividends from the Bank constitute the primary source of cash available to PM Bancorp for its operations and to fund any cash dividends that the board of directors might declare in the future. PM Bancorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank and the Bank is subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay cash dividends to PM Bancorp. Those restrictions would prohibit the Bank, subject to certain limited exceptions, from paying cash dividends in amounts that would cause the Bank to become undercapitalized. Additionally, the Federal Reserve Board and the DFI have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, if either of those authorities deems the payment of dividends by the Bank to be an unsafe or unsound practice. See “Dividend Policy—Restrictions on the Payment of Dividends.” Additionally, it is FRB policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also an FRB policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine the company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Additionally, in consideration of the current financial and economic environment, the FRB has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully review their dividend policy and has discouraged payment ratios that are at maximum allowable levels unless both asset quality and capital are very strong. The Federal Reserve Board also has established guidelines with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by banks and bank holding companies under its jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set forth in those guidelines and the restrictions that are or may be imposed under the prompt corrective action provisions of federal law could limit the amount of dividends which the Bank or the Company may pay. See “—Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action” below in this Section of this Report. Single Borrower Loan Limitations. With certain limited exceptions, the maximum amount of obligations, secured or unsecured, that any borrower (including certain related entities) may owe to a California state bank at any one time may not exceed 25% of the sum of the shareholders’ equity, allowance for loan losses, capital notes and debentures of the bank. Unsecured obligations may not exceed 15% of the sum of the shareholders’ equity, allowance for loan losses, capital notes and debentures of the bank. 14 Table of Contents Restrictions on Transactions between the Bank and the Company and its other Affiliates. The Bank is subject to restrictions imposed by federal law on any extensions of credit to, or the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on behalf of, the Company or any of its other subsidiaries; the purchase of, or investments in, Company stock or other Company securities and the taking of such securities as collateral for loans; and the purchase of assets from the Company or any of its other subsidiaries. These restrictions prevent the Company and any of its subsidiaries from borrowing from the Bank unless the loans are secured by marketable obligations in designated amounts, and such secured loans and investments by the Bank in the Company or any of its subsidiaries are limited, individually, to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus (as defined by federal regulations) and, in the aggregate, for all loans made to and investments made in the Company and its other subsidiaries, to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. California law also imposes restrictions with respect to transactions involving the Company and other persons deemed under that law to control the Bank. Safety and Soundness Standards Banking institutions may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices or for violating any law, rule, regulation, or any condition imposed in writing by its primary federal banking regulatory agency or any written agreement with that agency. The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines designed to identify and address potential safety and soundness concerns that could, if not corrected, lead to deterioration in the quality of a bank’s assets, liquidity or capital. Those guidelines set forth operational and managerial standards relating to such matters as: • internal controls, information systems and internal audit systems; • loan documentation; • credit underwriting; • asset growth; • earnings; and • compensation, fees and benefits. In addition, federal banking agencies also have adopted safety and soundness guidelines with respect to asset quality. These guidelines provide six standards for establishing and maintaining a system to identify problem assets and prevent those assets from deteriorating. Under these standards, an FDIC-insured depository institution is expected to: • conduct periodic asset quality reviews to identify problem assets, estimate the inherent losses in problem assets and establish reserves that are sufficient to absorb those estimated losses; • compare problem asset totals to capital; • take appropriate corrective action to resolve problem assets; • consider the size and potential risks of material asset concentrations; and • provide periodic asset quality reports with adequate information for the bank’s management and the board of directors to assess the level of asset risk. These guidelines also establish standards for evaluating and monitoring earnings and for ensuring that earnings are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves. Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards, including requiring the prompt submission of an acceptable capital restoration plan if the depository institution’s bank regulator has concluded that it needs additional capital. Supervisory actions by a bank’s federal regulator under the prompt corrective action rules generally depend upon an institution’s classification within one of five capital categories, which is determined on the basis of a bank’s total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and leverage ratio. Tier 1 capital consists principally of common stock and nonredeemable preferred stock, retained earnings and, subject to certain limitations, subordinated long term debentures or notes that meet certain conditions established by the Federal Reserve Board. See “MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — Capital Resources” in Item 7 in Part II of this Report. 15 Table of Contents A depository institution’s capital tier under the prompt corrective action regulations will depend upon how its capital levels compare with various relevant capital measures and the other factors established by the relevant regulations. Those regulations provide that a bank will be: • “well capitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and is not subject to any order or written directive by any such regulatory authority to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; • “adequately capitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater and is not “well capitalized”; • “undercapitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%; • “significantly undercapitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3.0% or a leverage ratio of less than 3.0%; and • “critically undercapitalized” if its tangible equity is equal to or less than 2.0% of average quarterly tangible assets. If a bank that is classified as a well-capitalized institution is determined (after notice and opportunity for hearing), by its federal regulatory agency to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice, that agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify the bank as adequately capitalized. If a bank has been classified as adequately capitalized or undercapitalized, its federal regulatory agency may nevertheless require it to comply with bank supervisory provisions and restrictions that would apply to a bank in the next lower capital classification, if that regulatory agency has obtained supervisory information regarding the bank (other than with respect to its capital levels) that raises safety or soundness concerns. However, a significantly undercapitalized bank may not be treated by its regulatory agency as critically undercapitalized. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank from making any capital distributions (including payments of dividends) or paying any management fee to its parent holding company if the bank would thereafter be “undercapitalized.” “Undercapitalized” banks are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. The federal regulatory agency for such a bank may not accept its capital restoration plan unless it determines, among other things, that the plan is based on realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the bank’s capital. In addition, for a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, the bank’s parent holding company must guarantee that the bank will comply with its capital restoration plan. The bank holding company also is required to provide appropriate assurances of performance. Under such a guarantee and assurance of performance, if the bank fails to comply with its capital restoration plan, the parent holding company may become subject to liability for such failure in an amount up to the lesser of (i) 5.0% of the its bank subsidiary’s total assets at the time it became undercapitalized, and (ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to bring the bank into compliance with all applicable capital standards as of the time it failed to comply with the plan. If a bank fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan, it will be treated as if it is “significantly undercapitalized.” In that event, the bank’s federal regulatory agency may impose a number of additional requirements and restrictions on the bank, including orders or requirements (i) to sell sufficient voting stock to become “adequately capitalized,” (ii) to reduce its total assets, and (iii) cease the receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. “Critically undercapitalized” institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator. 16 Table of Contents The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2009, the regulatory capital ratios of the Company (on a consolidated basis) and the Bank (on a stand-alone basis) and compares those capital ratios to the federally established capital requirements that must be met for a bank holding company or a bank to be deemed “adequately capitalized” or “well capitalized” under the prompt corrective action regulations that are described above: At December 31, 2009 Actual To Be Classified for Regulatory Purposes As Adequately Capitalized Well Capitalized Total Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Company 11.7 % At least 8.0 % N/A Bank 11.0 % At least 8.0 % At least 10.0 % Tier I Capital to Risk Weighted Assets Company 10.4 % At least 4.0 % N/A Bank 9.7 % At least 4.0 % At least 6.0 % Tier I Capital to Average Assets Company 8.1 % At least 4.0 % N/A Bank 7.6 % At least 4.0 % At least 5.0 % As the above table indicates, at December 31, 2009 the Company (on a consolidated basis) and the Bank (on a stand-alone basis) exceeded the capital ratios required for classification as well-capitalized institutions under federally mandated capital standards and federally established prompt corrective action regulations. Basel and Basel II Capital Requirements The current risk-based capital guidelines which apply to the Company and the Bank are based upon the 1988 capital accord of the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a committee of central banks and bank supervisors/regulators from the major industrialized countries that develops broad policy guidelines for use by each country’s supervisors in determining the supervisory policies they apply. A new international accord, referred to as Basel II, which emphasizes internal assessment of credit, market and operational risk; supervisory assessment and market discipline in determining minimum capital requirements, became mandatory for large or “core” international banks outside the U.S. in 2008 (total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated foreign exposures of $10 billion or more); is optional for others, and if adopted, must first be complied with in a “parallel run” for two years along with the existing Basel I standards. In January 2009, the Basel Committee proposed to reconsider regulatory-capital standards, supervisory and risk-management requirements and additional disclosures in the final new accord in response to recent worldwide developments. In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision issued a consultative document entitled “Strengthening the Resilience of the Banking Sector.” If adopted as proposed, this could increase significantly the aggregate equity that bank holding companies are required to hold by disqualifying certain instruments that previously have qualified as Tier 1 capital. In addition, it would increase the level of risk-weighted assets. The proposal could also increase the capital charges imposed on certain assets potentially making certain businesses more expensive to conduct. Regulatory agencies have not opined on the proposal for implementation. FDIC Deposit Insurance The FDIC is an independent federal agency that insures deposits, up to prescribed statutory limits, of federally insured banks and savings institutions in order to safeguard the safety and soundness of the banking and savings industries. The FDIC insures customer deposits through the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) up to prescribed limits for each depositor. Pursuant to the EESA, the maximum deposit insurance amount has been increased from $100,000 to $250,000 effective through December 2013. The DIF is funded primarily by FDIC assessments paid by each DIF member institution. The amount of each DIF member’s assessment is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors. Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005, the FDIC is authorized to set the reserve ratio for the DIF annually at between 1.15% and 1.50% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. 17 Table of Contents On February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted a rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and setting new initial base assessment rates effective April 1, 2009. Rates range from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized institutions with the highest credit ratings, to 45 cents per $100 for those institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Risk-based adjustments to the initial assessment rate may lower the rate to 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings or raise the rate to 77.5 cents per $100 for depository institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis point special assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the special assessment for any institution was limited to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased the annual assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC amended its regulations to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. On its own initiative, the FDIC exempted certain institutions from the prepayment requirement and the Bank was notified in the fourth quarter of 2009 that it had been granted such an exemption. Additionally, all FDIC-insured institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC to fund interest payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation (“FICO”), an agency of the Federal government established to recapitalize the predecessor to the DIF. The FICO assessment rates, which are determined quarterly, averaged 0.0113% of insured deposits in fiscal 2009. These assessments will continue until the FICO bonds mature in 2017. Those banks electing to participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will become subject to an additional temporary assessment on deposits in excess of $250,000 in certain transaction accounts and additionally for assessments from 50 basis points to 100 basis points per annum depending on the initial maturity of the debt. The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices that pose a risk to the DIF or that may prejudice the interest of the bank’s depositors. Pursuant to California law, the termination of a California state chartered bank’s FDIC deposit insurance would result in the revocation of the bank’s charter, forcing it to cease conducting banking operations. Community Reinvestment Act and Fair Lending Developments The Bank is subject to fair lending requirements and the evaluation of its small business operations under the Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). That Act generally requires the federal banking agencies to evaluate the record of a bank in meeting the credit needs of its local communities, including those of low- and moderate-income neighborhoods in its service area. A bank may be subject to substantial penalties and corrective measures for a violation of fair lending laws. Federal banking agencies also may take compliance with fair lending laws into account when regulating and supervising other activities of a bank or its bank holding company. A bank’s compliance with its CRA obligations is based on a performance-based evaluation system which determines the bank’s CRA ratings on the basis of its community lending and community development performance. When a bank holding company files an application for approval to acquire a bank or another bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board will review the CRA assessment of each of the subsidiary banks of the applicant bank holding company, and a low CRA rating may be the basis for denying the application. USA Patriot Act of 2001 In October 2001, the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA Patriot Act) of 2001 was enacted into law in response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. The USA Patriot Act was adopted to strengthen the ability of U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies to work cohesively to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. Of particular relevance to banks and other federally insured depository institutions are the USA Patriot Act’s sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency provisions and various related implementing regulations that: • establish due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts and foreign correspondent accounts; • prohibits US institutions from providing correspondent accounts to foreign shell banks; • establish standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; 18 Table of Contents • set rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulatory agencies and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering; Under implementing regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, banking institutions are required to incorporate a customer identification program into their written money laundering plans that includes procedures for: • verifying the identity of any person seeking to open an account, to the extent reasonable and practicable; • maintaining records of the information used to verify the person’s identity; and • determining whether the person appears on any list of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations. Consumer Laws The Company and the Bank are subject to a broad range of federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations prohibiting unfair or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition. Those laws and regulations include: • The Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act of 1994, or HOEPA, which requires additional disclosures and consumer protections to borrowers designed to protect them against certain lending practices, such as practices deemed to constitute “predatory lending.” • Laws and regulations requiring banks to establish privacy policies which limit the disclosure of nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. • The Fair Credit Reporting Act, as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, or the FACT Act, which requires banking institutions and financial services businesses to adopt practices and procedures designed to help deter identity theft, including developing appropriate fraud response programs, and provides consumers with greater control of their credit data. • The Truth in Lending Act, or TILA, which requires that credit terms be disclosed in a meaningful and consistent way so that consumers may compare credit terms more readily and knowledgeably. • The Equal Credit Opportunity Act, or ECOA which generally prohibits, in connection with any consumer or business credit transaction, discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, age (except in limited circumstances), or the fact that a borrower is receiving income from public assistance programs. • The Fair Housing Act, which regulates many lending practices, including making it unlawful for any lender to discriminate in its housing-related lending activities against any person because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status. • The Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, or HMDA, which includes a “fair lending” aspect that requires the collection and disclosure of data about applicant and borrower characteristics as a way of identifying possible discriminatory lending patterns and enforcing anti-discrimination statutes. • The Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, which requires lenders to provide borrowers with disclosures regarding the nature and cost of real estate settlements and prohibits certain abusive practices, such as kickbacks. • The National Flood Insurance Act, or NFIA, which requires homes in flood-prone areas with mortgages from a federally regulated lender to have flood insurance. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we employed 207 persons on a full-time equivalent basis. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe relations with our employees are good. Information Available on our Website Our Internet address is www.pmbank.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our filings made with the SEC electronically, including those on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K, and any amendments to those filings. Copies of these filings are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished these documents to the SEC (at www.sec.gov). 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements discuss our expectations, beliefs or views regarding our future operations, future financial performance, or financial or other trends in our business or markets. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Often, they include the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may.” Such forward-looking statements are based on current information and assumptions about future events over which we do not have control and our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our financial condition or actual operating results in the future to differ significantly from our expected financial condition or operating results that are set forth in those forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: The United States is currently experiencing a severe economic recession and unprecedented credit crisis that have adversely affected the banking and financial services industry in general, and our business and financial performance, in particular, and have created substantial uncertainties and risks for our business and future financial performance The United States is experiencing a severe economic recession, which is reported to have begun at the end of 2007 and has created wide ranging consequences and difficulties for the banking and financial services industry, in particular, and the economy in general. The recession began with dramatic declines in the housing market, which resulted in decreasing home prices and increasing loan delinquencies and foreclosures that led to significant write-downs of the assets and an erosion of the capital of a large number of lending and other financial institutions. As a result, several very large and prominent banking and financial organizations, such as Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns, Wachovia Bank and Washington Mutual had to seek merger partners to survive and others, such as Lehman Bros. and Indy Mac Bank, failed and went out of business, which led to concerns over the stability and viability of the financial markets. In an effort to preserve their capital and avoid increased losses, banks and other lending institutions severely tightened their credit standards and significantly reduced their lending activities, creating a credit crisis that has led to a contraction of the economy, significant increases in unemployment and significant reductions in business and consumer spending. As a result, like many other banks, we experienced increases in loan delinquencies and defaults, not only in our real estate, but also in our commercial loan portfolios that resulted in significant increases in loan losses in 2008 and 2009. Those loan losses, coupled with the prospect that economic and market conditions, including high unemployment rates and further declines in real estate values, are not likely to improve to any significant extent until at least the second half of 2010 or even the beginning of 2011, has led us (and many other banks) to significantly increase loan loss reserves by charges to income that caused us to incur a net loss of $17.3 million, or $1.66 per diluted share, in 2009. As a result of these conditions and the likelihood that economic and market conditions will not soon recover, we face a number of risks that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition in the future, including the following: • We could incur additional loan losses, and experience an increase in foreclosures of real properties collateralizing loans that we have made that would require us to set aside additional reserves for possible declines in the value of or the costs of maintaining those properties, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cause us to incur operating losses in 2010. • Due to the uncertainties about economic conditions in 2010, there is an increased risk that the judgments that we might make in estimating loan losses that may be inherent in our loan portfolio and in establishing loan loss reserves will prove to be incorrect, requiring us to set aside additional reserves that would adversely affect our results of operation, as occurred in 2009. • Possible further declines in economic activity in the United States, generally, and in our markets, in particular, due to lack of business and consumer spending and increased unemployment could result in reductions in loan demand and a further tightening of credit that would lead to reductions in our interest income, net interest income and margins. • Adverse economic conditions, such as a continued tightening of available business and consumer credit and continued high unemployment, could lead customers to withdraw funds from their deposit accounts with us to meet their operating or living expenses, which could reduce our liquidity and, therefore, the funds we would have available for lending, as a result of which our interest income could decline, possibly significantly, and our costs of funds could increase, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents • In response to the causes of the credit and foreclosure crises and the economic recession, the federal government may increase regulation of and impose new restrictions on banks and other financial institutions, which would increase our costs of doing business and limit our ability to pursue business and growth opportunities. • If we are unable to meaningfully reduce our loan losses in 2010, we could be subjected to the imposition, by our federal and state bank regulators, of additional restrictions on our operations that could adversely affect our operating results and a requirement to raise additional capital that could dilute our existing shareholders. See “ — Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by bank regulatory restrictions and requirements under which we are currently operating,” in this Item 1A below. • We, as well as all other federally insured banks, may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums to replenish the FDIC’s insurance fund, which would increase our operating expenses and could adversely affect our income. • There is no assurance that the enactment of recent federal legislation and the implementation of regulatory programs and initiatives which were designed to address the difficult market and economic conditions that we are experiencing, will prove to be successful in curtailing the recession and providing the stimulus and resources needed to improve the economy. In addition, the impact of this legislation and these regulatory initiatives on the financial markets is uncertain and if they fail to lead to improvements in economic and market conditions, the recession could worsen and thereby adversely affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. • If we experience increased losses in 2010 due to these economic and market conditions, our regulatory capital and capital ratios could be reduced, requiring us to seek additional capital through sales of equity securities. If economic and market conditions do not improve, there is no assurance that we will succeed in raising additional equity capital, if needed, and any sales of equity securities that we might make could be dilutive of the financial and equity interests of our existing shareholders. If it becomes necessary, but we are unable to raise additional capital, we could be forced to sell some of our assets in order to prevent a decline in our capital ratios. However, there is no assurance that we would succeed in selling assets and we could incur losses on those asset sales. We could incur losses on the loans we make There has been a significant slowdown in the housing market and a significant increase in real estate loan foreclosures in portions of Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside and San Diego counties of California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of unsold homes and increases in unemployment and a resulting loss of confidence about the future among businesses and consumers that have combined to adversely affect business and consumer spending. These conditions have led to increased loan defaults in 2009. A continuing deterioration in the real estate market and a continuation or worsening of the economic recession could result in additional loan charge-offs and increases in the provisions for loan losses in the future, which could cause us to incur additional losses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and capital. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by bank regulatory restrictions and requirements under which we are currently operating In July 2009, the Company and the Bank entered into an informal supervisory agreement (commonly referred to as a “memorandum of understanding” or an “MOU”) with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (the “Reserve Bank”) and the DFI. See “Supervision and Regulation – Pacific Mercantile Bancorp — Regulatory Action Taken by the FRB and the DFI” above. The MOU requires us to take a number of actions designed to return the Company to profitability and places certain restrictions on us. Those actions, some of which are required of the Bank and others of which are required of the Company, fall into two basic categories: (i) actions designed to reduce the Bank’s non-performing loans and other real estate owned, which relate to, among other things, Board oversight procedures, credit risk management, loan policies, real property appraisal procedures, and policies and procedures relating to the Allowance for Loan Losses, and (ii) actions designed to maintain capital including, among others, strategic planning and budgeting, capital and profit planning, and a requirement that the Company obtain prior regulatory approvals before taking actions that could reduce our capital or adversely affect our capital ratios, such as the payment of dividends or distributions by the Company or the Bank, repurchases of shares and issuances of additional trust preferred securities by the Company or the incurrence or renewal of or increases in indebtedness of the Bancorp. Partially in response to the MOU, we have (i) adopted more stringent loan underwriting standards, which can adversely affect our ability to increase the volume of loans that we make; (ii) we have hired additional experienced banking professionals for our credit administration department to manage our non-performing assets and we have increased our loan collection efforts, which contributed to a significant increase in our noninterest expense during 2009; and (iii) we have raised additional capital in order to enable us to maintain our status as a well-capitalized institution. Moreover, in order to meet the requirements of the MOU, we have had to curtail our plans to grow our banking franchise. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, if we fail to comply with the terms of the MOU, or the Federal Reserve Bank or DFI believe that further regulatory action against us is necessary, we may be subject to further requirements to take corrective action, face further regulation, and intervention and additional constraints on our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business and our stock price. Due to regulatory restrictions applicable to us under the MOU, we may be prevented from paying distributions on our trust preferred securities The MOU requires that we obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank before we may pay scheduled quarterly or semi-annual distributions on our trust preferred securities. We have been advised by the Federal Reserve Bank that it will not approve the payment of the next quarterly distribution that is scheduled for payment on April 19, 2010 to the holders of our trust preferred securities. The terms of our trust preferred securities expressly permit us to defer such distributions for up to five years and, accordingly, we have notified the trustee for the trust preferred securities that we will be deferring the April 19, 2010 distribution. While the exercise of this deferral right by us does not constitute a default of our obligations with respect to the trust preferred securities, there is no assurance that it will not adversely affect the trading prices of our shares. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank to permit us to pay future distributions on the trust preferred securities, it would become necessary for us to exercise our deferral right with respect to those distributions as well. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our lending and other activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general, including a decrease in the level of business activity due to the market downturn or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on our operations. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow, or raise additional equity capital, could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a continued severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, particularly if the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. We face intense competition from other banks and financial institutions that could hurt our business We conduct our business operations in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by a relatively small number of large multi-state, as well as large in-state, banks with operations and offices covering wide geographical areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services as well as products and services that we do not offer. The larger banks, and some of those other financial institutions, have greater resources that enable them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. Some of these banks and institutions also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits that enable them to attract larger clients, and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, particularly with respect to attracting loans and deposits. Increased competition may prevent us (i) from achieving increases, or could even result in decreases, in our loan volume or deposit balances, or (ii) from increasing interest rates on loans or reducing interest rates we pay to attract or retain deposits, either or both of which could cause a decline in our interest income or an increase in our interest expense, that could lead to reductions in our net interest income and earnings. Adverse changes in economic conditions in Southern California could disproportionately harm our business The large majority of our customers and the properties securing a large proportion of our loans are located in Southern California. A continued downturn in economic conditions or the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes or fires, which are more common in Southern California than in other parts of the country, could harm our business by: • reducing loan demand which, in turn, would lead to reduced net interest margins and net interest income; • adversely affecting the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to make additional provisions for possible loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our operating results; and • causing reductions in real property values that, due to our reliance on real property to secure many of our loans, could make it more difficult for us to prevent losses from being incurred on non-performing loans through the sale of such real properties. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising 22 Table of Contents interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, we may need to accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of future increases in short-term market rates. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. Government regulations may impair our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and other customers and not shareholders, whose respective interests will often differ. The regulatory agencies have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking institutions, even if those restrictions would adversely affect the ability of the banking institution to expand its business or pay cash dividends, or result in increases in its costs of doing business or hinder its ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or banks or financial service organizations that are less regulated. Additionally, due to the complex and technical nature of many of the government regulations to which banking organizations are subject, inadvertent violations of those regulations may occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations. If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. The loss of key personnel could hurt our financial performance Our success depends to a great extent on the continued availability of our existing management and, in particular, on Raymond E. Dellerba, our President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, our executive officers provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is partially based. As a result, the loss of the services of any of these officers could harm our ability to implement our business strategy or our future operating results. Expansion of our banking franchise might not achieve expected growth or increases in profitability and may adversely affect our operating results We have grown substantially in the past ten years by (i) opening new financial centers in population centers, (ii) offering new revenue generating products or services, such as the commencement, in the second quarter of 2009, of our mortgage banking operations, and (iii) adding banking professionals at our existing financial centers, with the objective of attracting additional customers including, in particular, small to medium size businesses, that will add to our profitability. We intend to continue that growth strategy. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in achieving our growth objectives. Implementation of this strategy will require us to incur expenses in establishing new financial centers or adding banking professionals, long before we are able to attract, and with no assurance that we will succeed in attracting, a sufficient number of new customers that will enable us to generate the revenues needed to increase our profitability. As a result, our earnings could decline if we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy Moreover, as a result of the losses we have incurred during the past two years, the need to dedicate more personnel to the management and reduction of non-performing loans, and our increased focus our raising additional capital and returning the bank to profitability, we have had to significantly curtail our growth strategy and we cannot predict how long it will be before we will able to resume the full implementation of that strategy. Risks of our new residential mortgage lending business. During the quarter ended June 30, 2009, we commenced a new residential mortgage lending business pursuant to which we have begun originating and purchasing residential real estate mortgage loans that qualify for resale into the secondary mortgage market. The decision to commence that business is based on our belief that, beginning in 2009, there would be a substantial increase in the demand for conventional residential mortgage loans due to (i) the significant declines that have occurred in housing prices, particularly in Southern California, (ii) the decreases in prevailing interest rates, and (iii) the new federal income tax credit that will be available to first-time home buyers until April 2010. These conditions, we believe, make home ownership more affordable for consumers with good credit histories who had previously been shut out of the residential real estate market primarily by the high prices of homes and increasing interest rates prior to mid-2008. However, the commencement of our new mortgage lending business poses a number of potentially significant risks that could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. Those risks include, among others: the strain that the commencement of the new mortgage lending business will put on our cash and management resources; the risk that management’s time and efforts will be diverted from our existing banking business, 23 Table of Contents which could hurt our operating results; the risk that our new mortgage lending business will not generate revenues in amounts sufficient to enable us to recover the substantial expenditures we have had to make to add experienced mortgage loan officers and administrators; the risk that our belief that the demand for residential mortgage loans will grow substantially will prove not to have been correct; and the risk that we will be unable to sell the mortgage loans we originate into the secondary mortgage market for amounts sufficient to cover the costs of that business if, for example, the interest rates prove to be volatile or the economic recession or ongoing credit crisis adversely affects the flow of funds into the secondary mortgage market. Accordingly, there is no assurance that our entry into the residential mortgage lending business will not hurt our earnings or cause us to incur losses in the future. Our computer and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use to provide automated and internet banking services could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events and from security breaches. Any of those occurrences could result in damage to or a failure of our computer systems that could cause an interruption in our banking services and, therefore, harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches that could result in the theft of confidential customer information could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title Due to the current economic recession, the resulting financial difficulties encountered by many borrowers and the declines in the market values and in the demand for real properties, during 2009 we had to initiate foreclosure proceedings with respect to and take title to an increased number of real properties that had collateralized loans which had become nonperforming. Moreover, if the economic recession worsens, we may have to foreclose and take title to additional real properties in 2010. As a result, we could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur costs, which could be substantial, with respect to these properties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with environmental contamination at such properties. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities on costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, our stock price has been adversely affected by the losses we have incurred in the past two years and uncertainty as to how soon we will return to profitability. Moreover our stock price in the future could be adversely affected by other factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • the imposition of additional regulatory restrictions on our business and operations; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; 24 Table of Contents • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or newly adopted regulatory changes or developments; or • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us. The stock market and, in particular, the market for the securities of financial institutions, has experienced significant volatility as a result of (i) the financial difficulties and losses encountered by a number of very large and prominent banking institutions and the closure of numerous banks in California and elsewhere throughout the country, which has adversely affected the stock prices of banks generally, including those that have been able so far to weather the difficult economic and market conditions, and (ii) concerns and a lack of confidence among investors that economic and market conditions will improve. As a result of these conditions and the losses we have incurred in 2008 and 2009, the market price of our common stock has not only been volatile, but also has declined significantly during the past two years, as has been the case with a large number of other banks, including many of our competitors. In addition, the trading prices of our common stock are affected by a number of factors, including our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, but some of which are outside of our control, such as economic conditions generally and changes in the confidence about economic conditions among businesses and consumers. Moreover, there is no assurance that we will not experience a further decline in our stock price during 2010, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. We may face other risks From time to time, other risks can arise with respect to our business and/or financial results which we will report in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For further discussion of risks that can affect our financial performance or financial condition, also see “Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations” below in this Report. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements contained in this Report, except as may be required by law or by NASDAQ. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 25 Table of Contents 