ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered in conjunction with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report may include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to those risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we identify the following risk factors, which could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. A prolonged downturn in global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. The world's financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in the past year, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining values of others. These disruptions are likely to have an ongoing adverse impact on the global economy and we are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the effect of these disruptions on financial markets, credit availability, and adverse economic conditions throughout the world. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours and those of our customers in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences to us. A continuing economic downturn in the United States and elsewhere, or reductions in the level of government funding for scientific research, may cause our current or potential customers to delay or reduce purchases which could, in turn, result in reductions in sales of our products, materially and adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Volatility and disruption of global financial markets could limit our customers' ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and proceed with planned or new capital spending initiatives, leading to a reduction in sales volume that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. In addition, a decline in our customers' ability to pay as a result of the economic downturn may lead to increased difficulties in the collection of our accounts receivable, higher levels of reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. We may not realize anticipated benefits from global stimulus packages. Many governments around the world, including the U.S. federal government, have enacted various stimulus packages that are intended to increase investment and business activity, and in particular to provide funding for life science research, equipment and facilities. Although we believe there is opportunity for Bruker to benefit from these economic stimulus spending programs, including the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, there is no assurance that any of these programs will have a material positive impact on our revenues and profits. The magnitude and timing of any benefits that we might realize from stimulus funding initiatives are uncertain and are subject to a number of factors beyond our control, including government appropriations processes in various countries in which we and our customers do business, governmental determinations regarding the allocation of stimulus funds to the academic institutions, not-for-profit research organizations and businesses that may utilize our products and technologies, the success of our customers in obtaining stimulus grants, and our customers' decisions to use any stimulus funds they receive to purchase products from us. It is not possible to predict whether or when we will realize benefits from stimulus 17 Table of Contents packages enacted in the U.S. or elsewhere, or what impact, if any, stimulus packages will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. If our products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance across their broad intended range of applications, we will not generate expected revenue. Our business strategy depends on our ability to successfully commercialize a broad range of products based on our core technology platforms, including X-ray technologies, magnetic resonance technologies, mass spectrometry technologies, vibrational spectroscopy technologies and superconducting magnet technologies for use in a variety of life science, chemistry and materials analysis applications. Some of our products have only recently been commercially launched and have achieved only limited sales to date. The commercial success of our products depends on our obtaining continued and expanding market acceptance of our products by our diverse industrial, academic, medical research and governmental customers around the world. We may fail to achieve or sustain substantial market acceptance for our products across the full range of our intended applications or in one or more of our principal intended applications. Any such failure could decrease our sales and revenue. To succeed, we must convince substantial numbers of potential customers to invest in new systems or replace their existing techniques with X-ray, magnetic resonance, mass spectrometry and vibrational spectroscopy techniques employing our systems. Limited funding available for capital acquisitions by our customers, as well as our customers' own internal purchasing approval policies, could hinder market acceptance of our products. Our intended customers may be reluctant to make the substantial capital investment generally needed to acquire our products or to incur the training and other costs involved with replacing their existing systems with our products. We also may not be able to convince our intended customers that our systems are an attractive and cost-effective alternative to other technologies and systems for the acquisition, analysis and management of molecular information. Because of these and other factors, our products may fail to gain or sustain market acceptance. Our products compete in markets that are subject to rapid technological change, and one or more of the technologies underlying our products could be made obsolete by new technology. The market for discovery and analysis tools is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. Rapidly changing technology could make some or all of our product lines obsolete unless we are able to continually improve our existing products and develop new products. Because substantially all of our products are based on our core technology platforms, including X-ray technologies, magnetic resonance technologies, mass spectrometry technologies, vibrational spectroscopy and superconducting magnet technologies, we are particularly vulnerable to any technological advances that would make certain of these techniques obsolete as the basis for analytical systems in any of our markets. To meet the evolving needs of our customers, we must rapidly and continually enhance our current and planned products and services and develop and introduce new products and services. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies which are subject to rapid change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the rapid changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. If we fail to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers, our product sales may decline, and we could experience significant losses. Our new technologies and product developments may not succeed. We are currently developing a number of new key technologies and products in all of our divisions, including various new LTS and HTS superconductors, prototype crystal growth magnets, and prototype superconducting fault current limiters at Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies, new magnet types at Bruker BioSpin, new mass spectrometry technologies and applications at Bruker Daltonics, and new CBRNE detection products that may not succeed technically, or may not be able to be manufactured 18 Table of Contents reliably and economically. Any technology, product or manufacturing ramp-up failure could decrease our opportunities for additional revenues and increased margins. If we are unable to make or complete future mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances as a part of our growth strategy, or integrate recent or future mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances, our business development may suffer. Our strategy potentially includes expanding our technology base through selected mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances. We may seek to continue to expand our technology base through mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances. If we fail to effect mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances, our technology base may not expand as quickly and efficiently as possible. Without such complementary growth from selected mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances, our ability to keep up with the evolving needs of the markets we serve and to meet our future performance goals could be adversely affected. However, we may not be able to find attractive candidates, or enter into mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or successfully integrate the operations of companies that we acquire. In addition, we may compete with other companies for these merger, acquisition or strategic alliance candidates, which could make such a transaction more expensive for us. If we are able to successfully identify and complete a merger, acquisition or strategic alliance, it could involve a number of risks, including, among others: •the difficulty of coordinating or consolidating geographically separate organizations and integrating personnel with different business backgrounds and corporate cultures; •the difficulty of integrating previously autonomous departments in accounting and finance, sales and marketing, distribution, and administrative functions, and expanding and integrating information and management systems; •the diversion of resources and management time; •the potential disruption of our ongoing business; •the potential impairment of relationships with customers as a result of changes in management or otherwise arising out of such transactions; and •the significantly increased risk of key management or key employees leaving the acquired companies within the first 1-2 years after the acquisition, including the risk that they may compete with us subsequently. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not be able to realize all of the cost savings and other benefits that we expect to result from the transactions. Our business could be harmed if our collaborations fail to advance our product development. Demand for our products will depend in part upon the extent to which our collaborations with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and proteomics companies are successful in developing, or helping us to develop, new products and new applications for our existing products. In addition, we collaborate with academic institutions and government research laboratories on product development. We have limited or no control over the resources that any collaborator may devote to our products. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. If we fail to enter into or maintain appropriate collaboration agreements, or if any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop some of our new products, which could materially impede our ability to generate revenue or profits. 19 Table of Contents We face substantial competition. We face substantial competition and we expect that competition in all of our markets will increase further. Currently, our principal competition comes from established companies providing products using existing technologies, including mass spectrometry, X-ray technology, magnetic resonance technologies, optical emission spectrometry technology, vibrational spectroscopy, CBRNE detection technologies, TD-NMR technologies and other technologies, which perform many of the same functions for which we market our products. Other companies also may choose to enter our fields in the future. Our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products or that may render our products obsolete. Competition has in the past and is likely in the future to subject our products to pricing pressure. Many of our competitors have more experience in the market and substantially greater financial, operational, marketing and technical resources than we do which could give them a competitive edge in areas such as research and development, production, marketing and distribution. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to, less expensive than, or more cost-effective than, other currently marketed products. If we are unable to recover significant development costs of one or more of our products or product lines, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We offer and plan to continue to offer a broad product line and incur and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the development of new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. Our business model calls for us to derive a significant portion of our revenues each year from products that did not exist in the previous two years. However, we may experience difficulties which may delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or product enhancements. The speed of technological change in the markets we serve may prevent us from successfully marketing some or all of our products for the length of time required to recover their often significant development costs. If we fail to recover the development costs of one or more products or product lines, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. If we lose our strategic partners, our marketing efforts could be impaired. A substantial portion of our sales of selected products consists of sales to third parties who incorporate our products in their systems. These third parties are responsible for the marketing and sales of their systems. We have little or no control over their marketing and sales activities or how they use their resources. Our present or future strategic partners may or may not purchase sufficient quantities of products from us or perform appropriate marketing and sales activities. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our relationships with strategic partners, our business may suffer. Failures by our present or future strategic partners, or our inability to maintain or enter into new arrangements with strategic partners for product distribution, could materially impede the growth of our business and our ability to generate sufficient revenue and profits. Health care reform in the U.S. could adversely affect our revenue. President Obama has stated that health care reform in the U.S. is one of his top priorities, and it has recently been a topic of active discussion and debate. It is too soon to predict what form this reform may take, or whether and when it will happen. However, because many of our products are used for life science and health care applications, it is possible that health care reform in the U.S. could adversely affect our revenue. 20 Table of Contents If general health care spending patterns decline, our ability to generate revenue may suffer. We are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and funding priorities of various governments and government agencies. Since our inception, both we and our academic collaborators and customers have benefited from various governmental contracts and research grants. Whether we or our academic collaborators will continue to be able to attract these grants depends not only on the quality of our products, but also on general spending patterns of public institutions. Any reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales and impede our ability to generate revenue. A significant portion of our sales are capital purchases by our customers. The spending policies of our customers could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, policies regarding spending during recessionary periods and changes in the political climate. Any changes in capital spending or changes in the capital budgets of our customers could significantly reduce demand for our products. The capital resources of our life science and other corporate customers may be limited by the availability of equity or debt financing. Any significant decline in research and development expenditures by our life science customers could significantly decrease our sales. In addition, we make a substantial portion of our sales to non-profit and government entities which are dependent on government support for scientific research. Any decline in this support could decrease the ability of these customers to purchase our products. Our operations are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers. We currently purchase components used in our products from a limited number of outside suppliers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers could result in time delays associated with redesigning a product due to an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For example, we currently purchase key components used in our mass spectrometry, vibrational spectroscopy and X-ray systems from certain suppliers. In particular, the X-ray microanalysis business of Bruker AXS, which manufactures and sells accessories for electron microscopes, is partially dependent on cooperation from larger manufacturers of electron microscopes. Additionally, our Bruker-Elemental subsidiary purchases certain optical detectors from a single supplier, PerkinElmer, Inc., the sole supplier of these detector components. Bruker Daltonics purchases detectors and power supplies from sole or limited source suppliers. Bruker Optics purchases its focal plane array detectors from a single supplier, Lockheed Martin Corporation. Similarly, Bruker BioSpin obtains various components from sole or limited source suppliers and Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies obtains various raw materials and uses key production equipment from sole or limited source suppliers or subcontractors. There are limited, if any, available alternatives to these suppliers. The existence of shortages of these components or the failure of delivery with regard to these components could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and margins. In addition, price increases from these suppliers or subcontractors could have a material adverse effect upon our gross margins. Because of the scarcity of some components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of components, or we may be required to pay higher prices or to purchase components of lesser quality. Any delay or interruption in the supply of these or other components could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, harm our reputation and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, any increase in the cost of the components that we use in our products could make our products less competitive and decrease our gross margins. We may not be able to obtain sufficient 21 Table of Contents quantities of required components on the same or substantially the same terms. Additionally, consolidations among our suppliers could result in other sole source suppliers for us in the future. Increasing prices of metal raw materials could adversely affect the gross margins and profitability of our Bruker BioSpin subsidiary, and of our Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies business. The last few years have seen sharp increases in the prices for various raw materials, in part due to high demand from developing countries. Both Bruker BioSpin and Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies rely on some of these materials for the production of their products. In particular, for its superconducting magnet production, both for the horizontal and vertical magnet series, Bruker BioSpin relies on the availability of copper, steel and the metallic raw materials for traditional low-temperature superconducting wires. Similarly, Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies relies on the availability of niobium titanium for its production of low-temperature superconducting materials and devices. Higher prices for these commodities will increase the production cost of superconducting wires and superconducting magnets and may adversely affect gross margins. The prices of copper and certain other raw materials used for superconductors have increased significantly over the last decade. Since copper is a main constituent of low temperature superconductors, this may affect the price of superconducting wire. This type of increase would have an immediate effect on the production costs of superconducting magnets and may negatively affect the profit margins for those products. In addition, an increase in raw material cost affects the production cost of the superconducting wire produced by Bruker Energy & Supercon Technologies and of superconducting wire used by Bruker BioSpin. The demand for NMR, EPR, MRI and FTMS products may be adversely impacted by increases in the price of liquid helium. The demand for helium has risen sharply over the last decade. The superconducting magnets used in magnetic resonance rely on liquid helium for their operation. The high global demand, in combination with a shortage in supply, has caused prices for liquid helium to rise significantly. This has an adverse effect on the operating costs for magnetic resonance equipment, and may dampen demand for NMR, EPR, MRI and FTMS magnets in the future. Our manufacture and sale of products could lead to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. The manufacture and sale of our products exposes us to product liability claims if any of our products cause injury or are found otherwise unsuitable during manufacturing, marketing, sale or customer use. In particular, if one of our CBRNE detection products malfunctions, this could lead to civilian or military casualties in a time of unrest, exposing us to increased potential for high-profile liability. If our CBRNE detection products malfunction by generating a false-positive to a potential threat, we could be exposed to liabilities associated with actions taken that otherwise would not have been required. Additionally, the nuclear magnetic resonance, research magnetic resonance imaging, Fourier transform mass spectrometry and certain electron paramagnetic resonance magnets of Bruker BioSpin utilize high magnet fields and cryogenics to operate at approximately 4 Kelvin, the temperature of liquid helium. There is an inherent risk of potential product liability due to the existence of these high magnetic fields, associated stray fields outside the magnet, and the handling of the cryogens associated with superconducting magnets. In addition, the Bruker Daltonics MALDI Biotyper has an IVD-CE mark and is used for the identification of microorganisms. Misidentification or a false-negative of certain bacteria, yeasts or fungi could lead to inappropriate treatment for patients, and could expose Bruker Daltonics to product liability. 22 Table of Contents A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Responding to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials which we use could be time consuming and costly. We use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in our business and generate wastes that are regulated as hazardous wastes under United States federal, and Massachusetts, California, Washington and Wisconsin state, environmental and atomic energy regulatory laws and under equivalent provisions of law in those jurisdictions in which our research and manufacturing facilities are located. Our use of these substances and materials is subject to stringent, and periodically changing, regulation that can impose costly compliance obligations on us and have the potential to adversely affect our manufacturing activities. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result, in addition to incurring clean-up costs and liabilities, which can be substantial. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities resulting in delays and increased costs. In addition to the risks applicable to our life science and materials analysis products, our CBRNE detection products are subject to a number of additional risks, including lengthy product development and contract negotiation periods and certain risks inherent in long-term government contracts. Our CBRNE detection products are subject to many of the same risks associated with our life science products, including vulnerability to rapid technological change, dependence on mass spectrometry and other technologies and substantial competition. In addition, our CBRNE detection products and certain FT-IR products are generally sold to government agencies under long-term contracts. These contracts generally involve lengthy pre-contract negotiations and product development. We may be required to devote substantial working capital and other resources prior to obtaining product orders. As a result, we may incur substantial costs before we recognize revenue from these products. Moreover, in return for larger, longer-term contracts, our customers for these products often demand more stringent acceptance criteria. These criteria may also cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue from sales of these products. Furthermore, we may not be able to accurately predict in advance our costs to fulfill our obligations under these long-term contracts. If we fail to accurately predict our costs, due to inflation or other factors, we could incur significant losses. Also, the presence or absence of such contracts may cause substantial variation in our results of operations between fiscal periods and, as a result, our results of operations for any given fiscal period may not be predictive of our results for subsequent fiscal periods. The resulting uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our stock price. We are subject to existing and potential additional regulation and government inquiry, which can impose burdens on our operations and narrow the markets for our products. We are subject, both directly and indirectly, to the adverse impact of existing and potential future government regulation of our operations and markets. For example, exportation of our products, particularly our CBRNE detection products, is subject to strict regulatory control in a number of jurisdictions. The failure to satisfy export control criteria or obtain necessary clearances could delay or prevent shipment of products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, the life sciences industry, which is the market for our principal products, has historically been heavily regulated. There are, for example, laws in several jurisdictions restricting research in genetic engineering, which can operate to narrow our markets. Given the evolving nature of this industry, 23 Table of Contents legislative bodies or regulatory authorities may adopt additional regulation that adversely affects our market opportunities. Additionally, if ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of genetic information, gene therapy or genetically modified organisms become widespread, we may have less demand for our products. Our business is also directly affected by a wide variety of government regulations applicable to business enterprises generally and to companies operating in the life sciences industry in particular. We note that, as a result of developing and selling products which are the subject of such regulation, we have been, are, and expect to be in the future, subject to inquiries from the government agencies which enforce these regulations, including the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Department of Defense, among others, as well as from state or foreign governments and their departments and agencies. As a result, from time to time, the attention of our management and other resources may be diverted to attend to these inquiries. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations or obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in a variety of fines or other censures or an interruption in our business operations which may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Our commercial success depends on avoiding the infringement of other parties' patents and proprietary rights as well as avoiding the breach of any licenses relating to our technologies and products. Given that there may be patents of which we are unaware, particularly in the U.S. where patent applications are confidential, avoidance of patent infringement may be difficult. Various third-parties hold patents which may relate to our technology, and we may be found in the future to infringe these or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties, either with products we are currently marketing or developing or with new products which we may develop in the future. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our current or future products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. We may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, especially if the patent holder is a competitor. In addition, even if we can obtain the license, it may be non-exclusive, which will permit others to practice the same technology licensed to us. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. Under some circumstances in the U.S., these damages could include damages equal to triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing by them or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or license payments they are required to make to the patent holder. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products based on similar technology. Furthermore, we will suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any successful infringement action against us may harm our business. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our continued success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products throughout the world. We rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued, or which may be issued to us in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology could materially impair our ability to be commercially competitive. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on the protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Furthermore, others may have, or may in the future independently develop, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that are brought by us which could be expensive and time consuming and, if determined adversely, could adversely affect our patent position. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, and we may be similarly sued by others. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and diverts our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to maintain our sales and service staff to meet demand for our products and services. Our future revenue and profitability will depend in part on our ability to maintain our team of marketing and service personnel. Because our products are technical in nature, we believe that our marketing, sales and support staff must have scientific or technical expertise and experience. Competition for employees with these skills is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and 25 Table of Contents retain sufficient qualified sales and service people, and we may not be able to maintain and develop an efficient and effective sales, marketing and support department. If we fail to continue to attract or retain qualified people, then our business could suffer. We plan significant future growth, and there is a risk that we will not be able to manage this growth. Our success will depend on the expansion of our operations. Effective growth management will place increased demands on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our future growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. Our failure to manage this growth effectively could impair our ability to generate revenue or could cause our expenses to increase more rapidly than revenue, resulting in operating losses. Armed hostilities could constrain our ability to conduct business internationally and could also disrupt our U.S. operations. The current world unrest, or the responses of the United States, may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to the economic instability in the United States. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could have an impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability, our insurance premiums or the ability to purchase insurance and our ability to deliver our products to our customers. The consequences of these risks are unpredictable, and their long-term effect upon us is uncertain. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. International sales account and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and our ability to sell our products internationally, include: •changes in foreign currency exchange rates; •changes in regulatory requirements; •legislation and regulation, including tariffs, relating to the import or export of high technology products; •the imposition of government controls; •political and economic instability, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental restrictions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances; •costs and risks of deploying systems in foreign countries; •compliance with export laws and controls in multiple jurisdictions; •limited intellectual property rights; and •the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, including unfavorable labor regulations, specifically those applicable to our European operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future. 26 Table of Contents We may lose money when we exchange foreign currency received from international sales into U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. In addition, currency fluctuations could cause the price of our products to be more or less competitive than our principal competitors' products. Currency fluctuations will increase or decrease our cost structure relative to those of our competitors which could lessen the demand for our products and affect our competitive position. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. From time to time we enter into certain hedging transactions and/or option and foreign currency exchange contracts which are intended to offset some of the market risk associated with our sales denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot predict the effectiveness of these transactions or their impact upon our future operating results, and from time to time they may negatively affect our quarterly earnings. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the currency translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and from the exposure associated with transactions of our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective subsidiary's functional currency. While our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the United States are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency. During consolidation, these results are translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries report therefore could cause significant fluctuations in our reported results. Moreover, as exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. Additionally, to the extent monetary assets and liabilities, including debt, are held in a different currency than the reporting subsidiary's functional currency, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have a significant impact on our reported financial results, and may lead to increased earnings volatility. We may record significant gains or losses related to both the translation of assets and liabilities held by our subsidiaries into local currencies and the remeasurement of inter-company receivables and loan balances. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. Our ability to satisfy our obligations depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. If we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios related to maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to make certain payments; incur additional debt; incur certain liens; make certain investments, including derivative agreements; merge, consolidate, sell or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with affiliates. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other 27 Table of Contents factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that facility and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to impairment. As a result of our acquisitions we have recorded goodwill and other intangible assets which must be periodically evaluated for potential impairment. We assess the realizability of the reported goodwill and other intangible assets annually, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in the earnings associated with the reporting segment these acquisitions are reported within. A decline in our stock price and market capitalization may also cause us to consider whether goodwill and other intangible assets may require an impairment assessment. Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill will depend on the future cash flows of the reporting segment in addition to how well we integrate the businesses acquired. Various international tax risks could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. We are subject to international tax risks. Distributions of earnings and other payments received from our subsidiaries may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the countries where they are operating or are formed. If these foreign countries do not have income tax treaties with the United States or the countries where our subsidiaries are incorporated, we could be subject to high rates of withholding taxes on these distributions and payments. We could also be subject to being taxed twice on income related to operations in these non-treaty countries. Because we are unable to reduce the taxable income of one operating company with losses incurred by another operating company located in another country, we may have a higher foreign effective income tax rate than that of other companies in our industry. The amount of the credit that we may claim against our U.S. federal income tax for foreign income taxes is subject to many limitations which may significantly restrict our ability to claim a credit for all of the foreign taxes we pay. We currently have reserves established on the statutory books of certain international locations. Within our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the potential tax liabilities associated with these reserves have been recorded as long-term deferred tax liabilities. If these reserves are challenged, and we are unable to successfully defend the need for such reserves, these liabilities could become current resulting in a negative impact to our anticipated cash flows from operations over the next twelve months. The unpredictability and fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and may in the future vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect us include the following: •the timing of sales of our products and services; •the timing of recognizing revenue and deferred revenue under U.S. GAAP; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •increases in sales and marketing, product development or administration expenses; •the mix of services provided by us and third-party contractors; •our ability to attain and maintain quality levels for our products; 28 Table of Contents •costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and •the effectiveness of transactions entered into to hedge the risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced a decrease in revenue in the first, second and third quarters of each fiscal year relative to the prior fourth quarter, which we believe is due to our customers' budgeting cycles. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. As of March 8, 2010, our majority stockholders, including our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Frank Laukien, and Director and Chief Operating Officer of Bruker BioSpin Joerg Laukien and other Laukien family members owned, in the aggregate, approximately 57% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter and bylaws, as well as Delaware law. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our bylaws, as well as Delaware law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party: •staggered board of directors, where stockholders elect only a minority of the board each year; •advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; •a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) we believe are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2009 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 