D. Risk Factors There is a high degree of risk associated with our company and business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Our Markets The markets we target are highly cyclical and we do not have information that enables us to predict with accuracy the cycles in these markets. Also, these markets are negatively affected by periods of economic downturns. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclicality. As a result of our market penetration to the semiconductor industry, we experienced growth from this market from 2004 until the second quarter of 2006. From third quarter 2006 to first half of 2008 we experienced both upturns and downturns. During the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009 the semiconductor industry experienced a significant downturn, as a result of severe global economic recession and industry overcapacity. During the second half of 2009 and 2010 we experienced growth due to the increased capacity and demand in this industry. The printed circuit board (“PCB”) and the integrated circuit substrate (“IC substrate”) industries are also cyclical and experienced a prolonged and severe downturn in 2002 and 2003, an expansion and growth during 2004, and significant fluctuations on a quarterly and annual basis thereafter. During the second half of 2008 and during 2009 our sales of automated optical inspection (“AOI”) systems to manufacturers of printed circuit boards and the IC substrate industry were severely affected by the global economic recession. During 2010 we experienced growth due to the increased capacity and demand. The cyclical variations in our industries are very difficult to predict. In the event of a reduction in demand during cyclical downturns, as those we have experienced in the past and are likely to experience in the future, we may have only a limited ability to reduce expenses without harming our ability to rapidly grow when our markets recover and demand increases again. For example, in order to maintain such ability, we are required to incur significant ongoing expenditures related to engineering, research and development and worldwide customer service and support operations. Accordingly, we may incur losses during downturns or capacity adjustments, affecting the markets we serve. We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur additional losses in the future. Moreover, if our business deteriorates, we could face liquidity problems. In 2010 we recorded net income of $2.8 million. Despite having had net income in 2010, we incurred net losses of $11.8 million, $9.6 million and $7.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may not be able to achieve or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to generate consistent profitability could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. In 2010 we used $0.04 million in cash in our operations, while in 2009 our operations provided $3.9 million in cash. On December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $9.6 million, in addition to which we have $5.2 million in restricted cash. We may use cash in our operations during 2011 for working capital and may continue to incur significant additional legal expenses and other costs associated with certain patent infringement actions. In 2009, the District Court of Minnesota rendered a judgment in favor of a competitor in a patent infringement case against the Company awarding damages of approximately $6.8 million and pre-judgment interest of approximately $1.2 million. On August 10, 2010 the Company filed its appeal of t his judgment. The Company posted an $8.5 million bond to stay execution of any money judgment pending resolution of the appeal. Payment or exercise of the bond, if required, may adversely affect our liquidity and require us to further reduce our expenses and/or to arrange for additional financing. In 2011, the Company was ordered to pay an additional $645,946 in supplemental damages, and the plaintiffs filed motions seeking $1.5 million for alleged contempt and related attorney fees. Camtek believes it has strong defenses to these charges and intends to vigorously oppose these motions. See below “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us”. 7 If available liquidity is not sufficient to meet our operating and other obligations as they come due, our plans include pursuing additional financing arrangements from banks or others, the availability and terms of which are not assured, or further reducing expenditures as necessary to meet our cash requirements. We may experience fluctuations in our future operating results, making it difficult to predict future results. Our revenues and net income (loss), in any particular period may be lower (or greater) than revenues and net income (loss), in a preceding or comparable period. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our earnings. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may be meaningless, and you should not rely on them as indications of our future performance. Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: · the size, timing and shipment of substantial orders; · product mixtures; · customer budget cycles and installation schedules; · product introductions and the penetration period of new products; · timing of evaluation and qualification of our products by new customers; · temporary shifts in industry capacity; · pricing of our products; · timing of new product upgrades or enhancements; · timing of installation or, in some cases, of acceptance of our products by our customers; · interest and exchange rates; and · possible impairment of goodwill and other assets. Our future success depends on our ability to increase revenues from sales of AOI systems to both the final manufacturing (“back end”) and wafer processing (“front end”) markets and from the automated sample preparation systems to the front end market of the semiconductor industry. If our share in these markets fails to grow or we will fail to acquire customers for our new systems and applications, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are planning to increase our revenues from sales of AOI systems to both the back end and front end markets. Our future success in the semiconductor industry depends on our ability to continue to sustain and increase the acceptance rate of our AOI systems and new applications we included in our AOI systems offered to the back end market. From 2009 and during 2010 we started to record initial revenues from both the Gannet, our AOI system to the front end market, and the Xact, our automated sample preparation system, acquired through the acquisition of SELA - Semiconductor Engineering Laboratories Ltd ("Sela"). Our success also depends on the acceptance rate of both new systems. If the markets for our systems in the semiconductor industry do not develop at the rate we expect, whether as a result of our inability to obtain repeat orders from our customers or to acquire customers who would adopt our new systems, as well as our new applications to other AOI systems, an economic downturn, intensified competition, presentation to the market of alternative technologies, costly penetration of our new systems, changes in technology, changes in product standards, or otherwise - our results will be adversely affected. 8 In 2008 our revenues from the semiconductor industry increased by 48% above 2007 to $30 million, as a result of several multiple orders of technology-driven purchases and penetration to new customers with new applications. In 2009 our revenues from the semiconductor industry amounted to $20 million, a decrease which resulted from the global economic recession experienced at that time. In 2010 our revenues from the semiconductor industry, amounted to approximately $46.7 million as a result of the increase in capacity in this industry and our initial sales of the Gannet and Xact. Since an injunction was issued in the lawsuit brought against us by Rudolph Technologies Inc. (see “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us” below), we are prohibited from selling our Falcon systems in the United States. In the United States we sell our advanced AOI systems to the back end market of the semiconductor industry, the Condor. Therefore, although we faced some decline in our revenues in the United States as a result of the injunction, we continue to sell there and to generate revenues from the Condor. Longer sales process for new products may increase our costs and delay time to market of our products, both of which may negatively impact our revenues, results of operations, cash flow and inventory. Excess inventory can lead to material inventory write-offs. Our sales process to new and existing customers involves: demonstrations and testing against industry benchmarks in our sales centers; sales and technical presentations and presentations regarding our products’ competitive advantages; and installation of the systems at the customer’s site for side-by-side competitive evaluations for a period of approximately six months. More evaluation time is devoted during the initial penetration period for new products, currently the Gannet and the sample preparation system, the Xact (see Item 4.B – Business Overview – Product Lines), and for new customers in new markets, since these circumstances usually require qualification of the systems by the customers, and engineering efforts to fix errors, customize tasks and add new features. Considering the above factors, the length of time until we recognize revenue can vary and influence our revenues, cash flow and results of operations. The long sales process may cause an increase in inventory levels and a risk for inventory to decline in value. In the second half of 2009 we increased our products offering to our customers in the semiconductor industry by introducing the Gannet and sample preparation systems, which increases this risk. Moreover, our customers often require that we deliver our products with short lead times. In order to meet our customers’ needs in the timeframe they require, we usually need to pre-order components and subsystems based on our forecasts of future orders, rather than on actual orders. In order to compensate for unexpected delays, we have had to predict our needs further into the future. Our predictions may not correspond to our actual future needs. We operate an international sales and manufacturing organization. A substantial majority of our sales has been to manufacturers in the Asia Pacific region. The concentration of our sales and other resources within a particular geographical region subjects us to additional risks that could impede our plans for expansion and growth. The majority of our sales were in the Asia Pacific region. In 2010, our sales in the Asia Pacific region accounted for approximately 83% of our total revenues, of which approximately 38% of our total revenues are from sales in China and Hong Kong, 19% from sales in Korea and 9% from sales in Taiwan. In addition, parts of the assembly of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry are made in our manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China. A number of Asian countries have experienced or could experience political and economic instability. For example, Taiwan and China have had a number of disputes, North and South Korea, and Japan has for a number of years experienced significant economic instability. Changes in local legislation, changes in governmental controls and regulations, changes in tariffs and taxes, trade restrictions, a downturn in economic or financial conditions, political instability, an outbreak of hostilities or other political upheaval as well as any extraordinary events having an adverse effect on the economy or business environment in this region would likely harm the operations of our customers in these countries and may cause a significant decline in our future revenues and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. These general risks are heightened in China, where the nature of the economy and the legal parameters are rapidly evolving and where foreign companies may face cultural obstacles. 9 The markets we serve are highly competitive. There are dominant market participants in each of the markets we operate in and some of our competitors have greater resources, all of which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability or plan our cash flow. Competition in the markets we serve is intense. During market downturns competition has intensified due to the reduced demand for the type of products that we manufacture. When competitors respond to declining demand by offering discounts, free evaluation machines or more favorable credit terms, we may need to implement some or all of the same methods in order to maintain our market position. These could mean lower prices for our products and a corresponding reduction in our gross margin, as well as favorable payment terms to our customers and a corresponding decline in cash flow. If we have to lower prices to remain competitive and are unable to reduce our costs to offset price reductions or are unable to introduce new, higher performance products with higher prices, our operating results may be adversely affected. If we have to implement more favorable payment terms to our customers, our cash flow may be adversely affected. In the back end and front end markets of the semiconductor industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant for AOI systems is Rudolph Technologies Inc., with additional competitors including KLA-Tencor Corporation, Topcon Corporation, Toray Industries, Inc., Nidec Tosok Corporation and Hitachi Ltd. Sample preparation competitors are FEI Company, SII Nanotechnology Japan., Hitachi Ltd. and Carl Zeiss, Inc. In addition, there have been several mergers and acquisitions that changed the competitive map in our market. For example, Rudolph Technologies Inc.'s acquisition of August Technologies Corporation in 2005 and the acquisition of the bumped wafer inspection line of RVSI Inspection, LLC, in January 2008, continuing with Solvision Inc.'s acquisition by Zygo Corporation in February 2008 and the purchase of 96% of ICOS Vision Systems Corp. NV's shares by KLA-Tencor in May 2008. These acquisitions can reinforce the previously smaller competitors with resources, financial backing and the better market position of the acquiring companies, while bringing new forces to the marketplace. As a result, Camtek may need to overcome unfavorable market share perception and invest more R&D efforts in maintaining its technological position. In the printed circuit board and IC substrate industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is Orbotech Ltd., with additional competitors including Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Company, Lloyd-Doyle Limited, Gigavis Co. Ltd., Shirai Electronics Industrial Co. Ltd., ATI Electronics Pty Ltd., local AOI vendors in China and Taiwan and Utechzone Co. Ltd., with whom we have entered into cooperation for the sale of Utechzone's automated final inspection (“AFI”) products by us. In addition, there is a market for used AOI systems for printed circuit board manufacturers, which may reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices in certain cases. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources and offer a broader range of products and services. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, develop additional or superior products, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. 10 Technology in the markets in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to keep pace with these changes or with emerging industry standards. This could result in a loss of revenues. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and new product introductions. Potential new technologies and improvements to existing production equipment and methods could improve production yields, thereby reducing the need to use our AOI systems or our sample preparation systems in these industries. In addition, new technologies could emerge as alternatives to using our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new technologies for the printed circuit boards, IC substrates and silicon wafers markets. These products must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes, with products offered by our competitors or with emerging industry standards, our ability to attract new business and generate revenues may be damaged. We seek to expand our activity into unsaturated markets adjacent to our existing served markets, such as the inspection of silicon wafers at various steps during their manufacturing process inside the wafer fabrication facility. Technological developments in production processes and in process control may reduce the growth we anticipate in demand for inspection systems. If this happens, we may not be able to cover our investments in penetrating these markets, or will have to increase our R&D and marketing expense to adapt our products to such changes. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us. Third parties have asserted claims, and may assert additional claims in the future, that we have violated their patents or that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims against us, even if without merit, could lead to protracted litigation, could cost us a significant amount of money to defend and could divert management’s attention from our business. Successful claims against us could limit our ability to sell products in certain jurisdictions. On July 14, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota (“Court”) by one of the Company's competitors in the field of semiconductor wafer inspection equipment, August Technology Corporation (today Rudolph Technologies Inc., hereinafter “Rudolph,” having acquired August Technology Corporation), alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,826,298 (“’298 patent”) and seeking injunctive relief and damages. On March 5, 2009 a jury verdict was rendered in favor of Rudolph, awarding damages of approximately $6.8 million with regard to sales of Camtek's Falcon products in the United States. The jury also found that the infringement was not willful. On August 28, 2009, the Court entered judgment ordering the Company to pay the jury award, as well as an additional $1.2 million in prejudgment interest. The Court also issued an injunction (“Injunction”) ordering the Company to discontinue all sales and marketing of Falcon in the United States. Pursuant to the terms of the Injunction, service and repair of Falcons sold prior to the jury verdict is permitted to keep the systems in original operating condition. The Injunction relates only to the Company's Falcon operations in the United States, and should not have an effect on any of the Company's other operations. The Company filed an appeal with the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on August 10, 2010, after the Court’s denial of the Company’s post-judgment motions. On November 17, 2010, the Magistrate Judge found that Rudolph was entitled to $645,946 in supplemental damages reflecting Falcon sales occurring after the time period considered by the jury, and on January 7, 2011, the Court upheld the supplemental damages award. The Company has posted a bond in the Court, staying collection of any award pending resolution of the appeal. On March 9, 2011, Rudolph filed a motion seeking $322,973 in enhanced damages for an allegedly willful post-verdict Falcon sale, as well a motion seeking $1.2 million and unspecified attorneys fees for alleged contempt of the Injunction. The Company believes it has strong defenses to these charges and intends to vigorously oppose these motions. An appeal hearing is scheduled for April 7, 2011, but we expect final decision on our appeal to be received no earlier then the second half of 2011. We believe that we have good grounds to be ultimately successful with the appeal, but see also "We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur additional losses in the future. Moreover, if our business deteriorates, we could face liquidity problems" above. On May 10, 2004, a lawsuit was filed against the Company in the District Court in Nazareth, Israel, by our competitor, Orbotech Ltd., alleging that the Dragon and Falcon systems infringe upon a patent held by Orbotech Ltd. and requesting injunctive relief and damages. The patent upon which the claim is asserted expired in February 2008. The court advised the parties to turn to mediation. The parties participated in one mediation meeting, after which they have decided to end the mediation and to hold direct negotiations. Despite the unsuccessful direct negotiations, the court ordered another mediation meeting which is scheduled for July 2011. Currently, court sessions have been postponed for as long as the mediation process continues. We believe that we have substantial defenses against the validity of Orbotech’s patent and substantial defenses against Orbotech’s claims. 11 On February 23, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Jerusalem by Orbotech Ltd., alleging infringement of patent held by Orbotech Ltd. regarding a specific illumination block (an apparatus for illuminating and controlling the illumination of scanned objects), seeking injunctive relief and damages. The court ruled, based on a court’s scientific advisor's opinion and prima facie evidence, that Camtek infringed the patent, and granted Orbotech a provisional remedy, i.e. interim relief, which prevents Camtek from manufacturing the allegedly infringing illumination block in suit. The claim currently awaits the court's decisions in several preliminary motions filed by both parties. The patent upon which the claim is asserted expired in February 2007. At the court's recommendation, the parties held one mediation meeting, after which they have decided to conduct direct negotiations between them, without the mediator. These negotiations were unsuccessful. We believe that we have good defenses in the infringement aspect of the claim. We further believe that we have claims with respect to the validity of the asserted patent, as well as other defenses such as estoppel and lack of good faith on the part of Orbotech. On June 1, 2010, Rudolph filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota in which Rudolph alleged infringement of their U.S. Patent 7,779,528 relating to semiconductor wafer inspection technology similar to that described in the ‘298 patent. The complaint has not yet been served. However, we believe that we have good defenses and intend to aggressively defend ourselves from the allegations in this claim and our right to sell our tools in the United States. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our defense against these claims. If these claims will be ultimately successful, they could have a negative impact on our business by impairing our ability to sell our systems, and they could result in pecuniary damages against us and significant legal and other defense costs, which would impact our cash resources and profitability. In the event we do not prevail against these claims, we may also be liable for any court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the claimants in connection with these litigations. Even if we will be successful in our defense against these claims, we will still incur significant legal expenses while resolving these matters. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier and/or subcontractor. If one or more of our third-party suppliers or subcontractors does not provide us with key components or subsystems, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, and we may incur substantial costs to obtain these components from alternate sources. We rely on single source and limited source suppliers and subcontractors for a number of essential components and subsystems of our products. We do not have agreements with all of these suppliers and subcontractors for the continued supply of the components or subsystems they provide. If some of our key suppliers encounter difficulties and financial problems or rapid increases in demands, they might be unable to supply us with the necessary components or subsystems and meet our requirements in a timely manner. An interruption in supply from these sources or an unexpected termination of the manufacture of key components or subsystems would disrupt production and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers, hence could have an adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operation. Although we have taken and currently take precautions against this kind of events, an unexpected termination or disruption of supply would require an investment in capital and manpower resources in order to shift to other suppliers and might cause a significant delay in introducing replacement products or a significant increase in inventory which could have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flow and results of operation. Certain of the components for our machines are supplied, directly or indirectly, from Japan. At this stage we are unable to evaluate what effect, if any, the recent earthquake in Japan may have on our supply chain and therefore on our revenues. Since the beginning of 2010 our AOI systems to the back end semiconductor industry, the Falcon and Condor, are manufactured by a single subcontractor who performs part of the material planning, material procurement including key components from our approved suppliers, manufacturing, testing, assembly and packaging work with respect to these systems. If this subcontractor should encounter financial difficulties or the inability to meet our requirements in a timely manner, we could suffer from an unexpected termination or disruption of supply from this subcontractor, which would cause late deliveries of our products to our customers, require an investment in resources in order to shift to another supplier and might adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operation. The cleaving process in Sela division’s MC600 systems use diamond knives. Such knives are manufactured by a single source in Europe, with whom Sela has an exclusive agreement. The knives are consumable items with a limited life cycle. The manufacturing process for these knives demands expertise and experience. Breakdown of the manufacturing process has happen in the past, and was treated by the manufacturer in a prompt and effective manner. Sela has over ten years of experience with this supplier and has never encountered a situation that compromised its ability to supply consumables to its customers. Nevertheless, at present, we are experiencing such breakdown that has depleted our stock surplus. As in the past the manufacturer is in the process of locating the root cause of this breakdown and applying corrective measures, but we cannot be sure what would be the time required to solve this current issue or its affect on our sales and service to our current installed base. 12 We may encounter difficulties in purchasing key components and subsystems, or overestimate our needs, to meet customer demand. In the current highly-competitive business environment, our customers require us to fill orders within a very short period of time. Our products are complex and require essential components and subsystems that are produced by a number of suppliers and subcontractors. These suppliers and subcontractors cannot always supply such components and subsystems within the time frame demanded by our customers. Therefore, we are required to predict future demands. We believe that we have sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on time. However, if market conditions rapidly change and customer demand increases, we will be required to order additional components and subsystems. If our suppliers and subcontractors are unable to timely meet our increased demand, we might not be able to adequately meet our customers’ demands. Our inability to satisfy any increase in customer orders could result in the loss of sales and could cause customers to seek products from our competitors. We may also overestimate or incorrectly estimate the product mix of our future needs, which could result in an excess inventory of certain components and subsystems. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively. We differentiate our products and technologies from those of our competitors by using our proprietary software, our image processing algorithms, ink formulations, ion gun design and advanced image acquisition systems and the integration of our advanced hardware components. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trade secrets, patents, trademarks, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how and intellectual property, including with respect to hardware and software components of our products, our digital ink formula and our adaptive ion milling (“AIM”) technology. These measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies and it may be possible for a third party, including a competitor, to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technologies without authorization or to develop similar technologies independently. Additionally, our products may be sold in countries, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. In addition we have a manufacturing facility in China, in which we assemble most of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry, where the intellectual property laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, potential risk may be associated with the protection of our intellectual property which in turn may affect our competitive advantage. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in the prices of our products becoming less competitive or in additional expenses being recorded. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our products' prices in most countries are denominated in dollars except for Europe, Japan and as of 2011 also part of our revenues from products in China. In those countries, if there is a significant devaluation in the local currency compared to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that local currency and may be less competitive. In addition, much of our service income is denominated in local currencies. If a larger number of our sales were to be denominated in currencies other than dollars, our reported revenue and earnings would be subject to a greater degree of foreign exchange fluctuations. We generate most of our revenues from products in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our salary and operating expenses in NIS. As most of our revenues are denominated in dollars and as our financial results are reported in dollars, we believe that inflation and fluctuations in the NIS/dollar exchange rate have no material effect on our revenues. However, a major portion of the costs of our Israeli operations, such as personnel, subcontractors, materials and facility-related costs, are incurred in NIS. An increase in the NIS value relative to the dollar will increase our costs expressed in dollars, and a decrease in the NIS value relative to the dollar will decrease our costs expressed in dollars. In addition, starting 2011, part of our revenues from products in China will be denominated in local currency. Most of the expenses and purchases in China are also denominated in local currency. As our financial results are reported in dollars, fluctuations in the CNY/dollar exchange rate may affect our revenues and level of expenses. We may, from time to time, take various measures designed to reduce our exposure to these effects, but any such steps may be inadequate to protect us from currency rate fluctuations. Failure to protect adequately against currency rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 We may face risks of interruptions in our production capabilities. Our major manufacturing facility is located in Migdal Ha’Emek, in the Northern part of Israel. Any event affecting this site, including natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business (see also in “We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier and/or subcontractor” above). We also have a manufacturing facility in China, in which we assemble most of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry. Therefore, we may be influenced by changing events in China; for example, our manufacturing activity in China may suffer as a result of changes in China's geopolitical status or fluctuations in its economic stability. In addition, we may be exposed to sourcing risks, such as supply-chain and business interruption issues. Any event affecting this site may disrupt our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. We have expanded and may attempt to expand further our activity in the markets we operate in through M&A activity. Such activity may result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. In 2009, we invested in the development of new growth engines by acquiring the assets and certain liabilities of Printar Ltd. (“Printar”) and the entire share capital of SELA – Semiconductor Engineering Laboratories Ltd. (“SELA”), both Israeli companies; see below in Item 4.B "Business Overview – Our Business. We plan to grow our business, in part through acquisitions. Our existing operations, as well as any future acquired businesses or assets, could involve numerous risks, including: post-merger integration difficulties; diversion of management's attention from our core business and the operations acquired in 2009 ; failure to estimate the acquired business future performance and failure to execute on such expectations; failure to launch new products to our existing or new markets; inaccurate evaluation of expected competition and/or of the fair value of certain assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired operations. In addition, we cannot be certain that any future acquisition will be successful. If the operation of the business of any acquisition disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Even if we successfully integrate the acquired businesses with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of these acquisitions as a result of, for example, performances below expectations, changes in the economic or market conditions and the entering of stronger competitors or new technologies. In addition, principally as a result of acquisition activity, our future results of operations would be influenced by the possibility of impairment charges being incurred as a result of decline in value of goodwill and other intangible assets, an ongoing amortization of intangible assets acquired and financing expenses due to re-evaluation of contingent liabilities and other liabilities assumed presented at fair value (see also in Item 5 below - “Critical Accounting Policies“). Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, decrease in our cash resources, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other well-established and well-capitalized entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. 14 The unavailability of credit insurance may adversely affect our willingness to sell to certain customers. Since the second quarter of 2006, we have purchased credit insurance from an Israeli insurance company to cover certain sales. During crisis periods, credit insurance which previously covered some of our customers may be unavailable. In addition the insurance company can refuse to insure certain customers mainly small and private companies, in general, specifically in China. This could adversely affect our willingness to sell products to these customers. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our continued growth and success significantly depend on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management and key employees. If our operations rapidly expand, we believe that we will need to promote and hire qualified engineering, administrative, operational, financial and marketing personnel. In particular, we may find it difficult to hire key personnel with the requisite knowledge of our business, products and technologies. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. During periods of economic growth, competition for qualified engineering and technical personnel is intense. As a result of the acquisition of Sela and Printar’s assets we employ certain key employees of these two operations. There is no assurance that these key employees will continue to be employed by us, and a discontinuation of their employment could result in negative effect on our business. Our relationship with Priortech may give rise to conflicts of interest. We purchase products of, or sell products to, Priortech Ltd., our principal shareholder, and other companies owned or controlled by it, directly or indirectly, and act jointly with respect to governmental and administrative matters and the purchase from third parties of various products and services, which may create conflicts of interest. Despite Israeli law procedural requirements, including obtaining special shareholder approvals for interested party transactions, we cannot be certain that those procedures will eliminate the possible detrimental effects of any of these transactions and activities. In addition, Mr. Rafi Amit acts as the Active Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, on a 75% basis, as well as acting as Priortech’s Chairman of the Board of Directors and providing consulting and management services to Priortech on a 25% basis. Mr. Yotam Stern, our Executive Vice President, Business & Strategy, spends 40% of his time serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Priortech and other positions in the Priortech group (for more details regarding recent changes in senior management see Item 6 B below - "Compensation – Employment Agreements"). We may decide to obtain additional capital which would cause dilution to our shareholders’ holdings. If we decide to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities and are successful at raising such capital, the percentage ownership of our shareholders could be diluted. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares being taxed at as ordinary income rates rather than capital gain rates, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions generally will apply to certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. 15 Based on an analysis of our assets and income, we believe that in 2010 we were not a PFIC. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2011. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors, including the relative value of our passive assets and our non-passive assets, our market capitalization and the amount and type of our gross income. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2011 or in any future taxable year. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and the related tax consequences, please see “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company". Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past. During the period from January 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011, the closing price of our ordinary shares ranged from $2.21 to $4.65. During the period from January 1, 2009 through March 31, 2010, the closing price of our ordinary shares ranged from $0.25 to $3.23. Our ordinary shares may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the following: · global economic conditions, which generally influence stock market prices and volume fluctuations; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · market conditions relating to our customers’ industries; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · large block transactions in our ordinary shares; · an absence of an active trading market may limit our shareholders’ ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods. · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, M&A transactions, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements of significant claims or proceedings against us and developments in such proceedings; · adverse decisions in litigation matter; · additions or departures of our key personnel; and · future sales of our ordinary shares. Stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, political events or hostilities in Israel, the surrounding region or worldwide could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. 16 In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Currently, we are facing a class action complaint, as detailed in Item 8A – Legal Proceedings. This class action complaint could be protracted and divert management’s attention and resources. Our principal shareholder, Priortech, holds a controlling interest in us and will be able to exercise its control in ways that may be adverse to your interests. Priortech beneficially holds 60.5% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Priortech has the power to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of making it more difficult to obtain approval for a change in control of us. Messrs. Rafi Amit, Yotam Stern, Itzhak Krell, David Kishon, heirs of Haim Langmas, Zehava Wineberg and Hanoch Feldstien control Priortech and may be deemed to control us. Changes in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results. We prepare our financial statements to conform to U.S. GAAP. From time to time, recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the United States (the “FASB”) and the SEC, issue new and/or revised accounting standards or guidance. Changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely or significantly affect the way in which the Company records and reports its operating results, cash flows and financial position. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. Our principal offices, sole research and development facility and one of our manufacturing facilities are located in the State of Israel. We depend on components imported from outside of Israel and almost all of our sales occur outside of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: · any major hostilities involving Israel; · a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; · the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; and · a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. 17 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. In July 2006 there were extensive hostilities along Israel's northern border, with Lebanon, in proximity to where we are located, and in the winter of 2008-2009 Israel was engaged in an armed conflict in the Gaza Strip. None of the above had any material impact on our operations. Further, in the last couple of months throughout the Middle East there has been political turmoil and outbreaks of violence, the effects of which are yet to unfold but contribute to the general atmosphere of instability in the region. Increased hostilities, current and future armed conflicts, further adverse developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies of those countries directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of our key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Some of our employees in Israel, including certain key employees, are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli army and are subject to being called up for reserve duty at any time. The absence of one or more of our officers and key employees for significant periods of time due to military service could be disruptive to our operations. The Israeli government programs and tax benefits in which we have participated in the past and in which we currently participate or from which we receive benefits require us to meet several conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our tax expenses. We, Camtek Ltd., and our subsidiary Sela, benefit from certain Israeli government programs and tax benefits, particularly from tax exemptions, from the Approved Enterprise status of our manufacturing facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits or similar program in the future, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, these tax benefits could be cancelled, and we could be required to refund those tax benefits already received. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels, and our requests for tax exemption on income from our manufacturing facilities may not be approved. The government grants we receive for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products or to transfer technologies outside of Israel. From our inception through 2000, we received government grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (the “OCS”), for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. In March 2001, we commenced repayment of many of these grants pursuant to an understanding reached with the OCS. As of June 1, 2005, we have fully repaid our previously received grants from the OCS. Except for special circumstances and if we obtain governmental consents and pay to the OCS amounts which may be substantial, the terms of these grants prohibit us from selling or transferring rights in the technology developed with the grants outside of Israel and allow sale or transfer of rights within Israel only with special governmental approvals, even after full repayment of the grants. Elements of our technologies, including in the areas of electronic hardware, image processing, electro-optics, physics and mechanics, were developed with OCS grants. In addition, we may only manufacture products developed with these grants outside of Israel pursuant to the approval of a special governmental committee, and any approval of this nature may also require us to pay a further significant amount of royalties than the terms of the grants required, unless the amount of production outside Israel is less than 10% of the original rate of production and the OCS has not objected to the transfer of products. The restrictions regarding the sale or transfer of technology or manufacturing rights out of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into strategic alliances or enter into merger or acquisition transactions in the future that provide for the sale or transfer of our technology or manufacturing rights. 18 As of December 31, 2010, a dispute has arisen between us and the OCS in Israel in the amount of approximately $600 thousand regarding the royalty rate to be paid in respect of certain of our supported products, the assembly of which has been moved to a foreign subsidiary. Based on an opinion of our legal advisors, we believe that the probability that we will be required to pay this amount is less than 50%. Accordingly, no provision has been recorded in our financial statements in respect of this matter. Sela received government grants from the OCS for the financing of a significant portion of its product development expenditures in previous years. As of December 31, 2010 the amount of unpaid grants received, including interest accrued by Sela, amounted to $3.0 million. As part of the acquisition of Printar’s assets and certain liabilities, we assumed Printar’s liability to the OCS. In addition, in 2009 and 2010 we received additional grants with respect to the development programs of the digital material deposition systems in the amount of $0.6 million. As of December 31, 2010 the amount of unpaid grants received including interest accrued by Camtek, including the liabilities assumed from Printar, amounted to $5.2 million. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this Annual Report or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and our Israeli attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to assert U.S. federal securities laws claims or to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in actions originally instituted in Israel. Some provisions of Israeli law could inhibit the acquisition of us by others. Some provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger at a shareholders’ meeting called upon at least 21 days’ notice of each of the merging companies. A merger may not be completed until at least 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal by each of the merging companies with the Israeli Registrar of Companies, and 30 days have passed since the resolution was adopted by the general meeting of each of the merging companies. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a special tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, someone would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by way of a special tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if, as a result of an acquisition of shares, the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. For more information on the provisions of Israeli law in these contexts, please see sections “Share Capital” and “Israeli Taxation.” 19 