Item 1A. Risk Factors. THIS ANNUAL REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD CAUSE OUR ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE DISCUSSED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT. THESE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES INCLUDING THE FOLLOWING: Intense competition from new and existing competitors could impair our ability to grow our business and sell our products and technologies. The markets for our products and technologies are highly fragmented and intensely competitive. Aggressive competition from both hardware and software products and technologies could result in price reductions and loss of sales, which would materially harm our business. Our business is becoming increasingly sensitive to the introduction of new products and technologies, price changes, and marketing efforts by numerous and varied competitors. Accordingly, our future success will be highly dependent upon our timely completion and introduction of new products and technologies and features at competitive prices and performance levels that address the evolving needs of our customers. We continue to experience aggressive price competition and increased customer sensitivity to product prices, and pricing and margin pressures are likely to increase in the future. Because of this competition, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and technologies to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. We compete for sales of switching systems and extension products with companies such as Raritan Computer, Rose Electronics, Minicom Advanced Systems, Agilent Technologies, Aten International, Belkin, Lantronix, and Digital V6. We also face competition from software providers (such as Microsoft, Computer Associates, Tivoli, and BMC Software), who may be able to offer competitive software products at a much lower cost or even bundled for free, and from server manufacturers (including our OEM customers), who are able to offer their competitive technologies or products at the time of the server sale. These software and hardware products address many of the problems our switching systems and technologies, extension products, and remote access products are designed to address. Current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or products and to changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion, and sale of their products and technologies than we do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that enhance the ability of their products and technologies to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and competitive pressure may materially harm our business. Certain of our customers, such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Microsoft, presently offer competitive hardware and/or software products and technologies that address many of the problems our products and technologies address. These customers could decide to manufacture their own switching or remote access products, enhance their own internally-developed switching, IPMI, or other embedded technologies, or offer products or technologies supplied by competitors. Companies with hardware manufacturing experience or network management products, many of which are substantially larger than we are and have significantly more financial resources than we do, also offer products or technologies that compete with us. Established companies with hardware manufacturing or network management experience (such as Intel, Cisco, or EMC) could also offer new products, new technologies, or new solutions that compete with our products and technologies. Our failure to respond to rapid technological change or to introduce successful new products and technologies may result in reduced revenue or revenue growth. The process of developing or acquiring new products and technologies and enhancing existing products and technologies is complex, costly, and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. After we develop a product, we must then accurately forecast volumes and configurations that meet customer requirements, manufacture appropriate volumes quickly and at low cost, and train our sales force and resellers. Any delay in the development, production, marketing of, or training for new products or technologies could result in our not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. Sales of switching, extension, and remote access products and technologies are characterized by rapid technological advances, frequent new product and technological introductions and enhancements, and significant price competition. If we do not 11 keep pace with these changes, we will lose customers, and our business will be adversely affected. The introduction of products or technologies incorporating superior alternatives such as switching software, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in pricing structure could render our existing products and technologies and those under development obsolete or unmarketable. New technologies offered by us or our competitors could compete with our existing products at a lower price, which would reduce our revenue. Our products combine components, such as printed circuit boards, connectors, semiconductors, memory, cable assemblies, power supplies and enclosures that are manufactured by other companies and are generally available to competitors and potential competitors. Our future success will depend in large part upon continued innovative application of such commercially available components, together with continued enhancements to our proprietary software, firmware, and other technologies, the expansion and enhancement of existing products and technologies, and the development and introduction of new products and technologies that address changing customer needs on a cost-effective and timely basis. If we fail to respond on a timely basis to technological developments, changes in industry standards, customer requirements, or software innovations, we will lose customers, and our business will be greatly harmed. Similar results could occur if we experience significant delays in the development or introduction of new products or technologies. Due to our significant reliance on OEM relationships, our development efforts may often be focused on developing new products, technologies, or enhancements for OEM customers. As a result, our OEM relationships may negatively affect our ability to develop new and enhanced products and technologies for our non-OEM customers. Moreover, these new products, technologies, or enhancements for OEM customers may not be available to, or readily marketable to, other customers without significant modification and delay. The termination or significant disruption of our relationship with certain OEMs or other customers for whom we devote significant product development resources is likely to result in lost opportunities with respect to the development of products, technologies, or enhancements for our other customers. We are likely to experience fluctuations in operating results. We have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in operating results, on a quarterly and an annual basis, and we expect these fluctuations will continue in the future. Our operating results will be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • The volume and timing of orders, particularly from OEM and other large customers; • The timing of shipments; • The timing of new product introductions, new technologies, and enhancements by us and by our competitors; • Changes in product or distribution channel mixes; • Changes in pricing policies or price reductions; • Competition from new products and technologies and price reductions by competitors; • The availability and cost of supplies and components; • Sales and marketing expenses related to entering into new markets, introducing new products, new technologies, and retaining current OEM and other large customers; and • Fluctuations in sales of servers due to changes in economic conditions or capital spending levels. Our operating results will continue to be affected by seasonal trends, by general conditions in the server market, and by general economic conditions. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, some degree of seasonality due to customer buying cycles. We believe that the third and fourth quarters will generally have higher net sales levels due to customer budgeting and procurement cycles, which may depress net sales in other quarters. In addition, European sales are often weaker during the summer months. In the past, revenue in our fourth quarter of each year has typically been higher than revenue in prior quarters for the year, and we typically see a sequential decline in revenue from the fourth quarter of a year to the first quarter of the following year. While it is difficult to predict revenue in any quarter, we expect that this pattern will continue in the future. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Our quarterly sales have also reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total sales occur toward the end of the quarter, and this trend has become more pronounced in recent periods. This uneven sales pattern makes 12 prediction of revenue, earnings, and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. Other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical financial results are not meaningful indicators of our future operating results, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of equity research analysts, the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, increase our costs and expenses, and impair our financial condition. Sales outside the United States make up almost half of our revenue, and over half of our manufacturing takes place outside the United States. Accordingly, our future revenue, gross margin, expenses, and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: • Ongoing instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; • Currency fluctuations, which could contribute to variations in sales of products and technologies and could also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; • Longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; • Tax or trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing, and marketing of or payments for products; • Local labor conditions and other regulations; • Differing technology standards or customer requirements; • Fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry; • Natural or manmade disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, and typhoons, fires, power shortages, blackouts, or telecommunications failures; and • Medical epidemics, such as “Bird Flu” or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. The factors described above also could disrupt our product manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in Asia and Europe for the assembly and manufacture of many of our products. Our gross margins are expected to vary and may decline. Gross margins may vary or decline from period-to-period depending on a number of factors, including: • The ratio of OEM sales to branded sales, since OEM sales typically have lower gross margins than branded sales; • Product mix, because sales of some of our products and technologies will have lower gross margins than sales of other products or technologies; • Raw materials, freight, and labor costs; • Introduction of new products and technologies by us and by our competitors; and • The level of outsourcing of our manufacturing and assembly services. We expect that our gross margins may vary and may decline in the future primarily due to the factors listed above and to 13 increased competition and the introduction of new products and technologies that may affect product prices. A substantial portion of our business consists of sales to a limited number of OEM customers that are not obligated to continue doing business with us, and these sales vary considerably from quarter to quarter. A substantial portion of our sales is concentrated among a limited number of OEM customers. Sales to these OEMs represented approximately 48% of net sales in 2005, 45% of net sales in 2004, and 46% of net sales in 2003. Sales to Hewlett-Packard represented approximately 20% of our net sales in 2005, 23% of our net sales in 2004, and 23% of our net sales in 2003. Sales to Dell represent approximately 15% of our net sales in 2005, 12% of our net sales in 2004, and 14% of our sales in 2003. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, period-to-period variability in sales to these OEM customers. Any cancellation, rescheduling, or reduction of orders by OEM customers in the future could materially adversely affect our operating results. Although our OEM customers typically place orders for products up to several months prior to scheduled shipment dates, these orders are subject to cancellation. Our OEM business is subject to many risks, including: • Contract termination or reduced or delayed orders; • Short order cycles and difficulty in predicting sales because our OEM customers do not have long-term commitments to purchase from us; • Changes in the OEMs’ internal product life cycles including the delay of planned new product introductions and uncertainty over product end-of-life decisions; • Adoption of competing products or technologies developed by third parties for the OEMs or by the OEMs’ internal development teams; and • Changes in corporate ownership, financial condition, business direction, or product mix by the OEMs. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressures and significant variability in orders from our OEM customers, which may in the future have a material adverse effect on our quarterly sales and operating results. The loss of one or more large OEM customers would materially harm our business. While we have contracts with some of our existing OEM customers, none of our OEM customers is obligated to purchase products from us except pursuant to binding purchase orders. Consequently, any OEM customer could cease doing business with us at any time. Our dependence upon a few OEMs also results in a significant concentration of credit risk, thus a substantial portion of our trade receivables outstanding from time to time may be concentrated among a limited number of customers. In addition, OEM customers have longer payment cycles that increase the likelihood of aged or problem accounts receivable. We use multiple warehouses for many of our OEM customers to fulfill their orders under a just-in-time inventory management system, which requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels of our products at each of these warehouses to satisfy our OEMs anticipated customer demand, and we generally recognize revenue only when these OEM customers take possession of our products. We are required to plan production, order components, and undertake our manufacturing activities prior to the time that these orders become firm or the products are accepted. In addition, our OEM customers have requested, and are likely to continue to request from time to time, that we delay shipment dates or cancel orders for products that are subject to firm orders. As a result, at any time we may be holding a significant amount of OEM-branded products in inventory, and our sales to OEMs for future quarters are difficult to predict. The inability to accurately predict the timing and volume of orders for our OEM customers during any given quarter could adversely affect operating results for that quarter and, potentially, for future quarters. If we underestimate sales, we may not be able to fill orders on a timely basis. This could cause customer dissatisfaction and loss of future business. If we overestimate sales, we may experience increased costs from inventory storage, waste, and obsolescence. A substantial portion of our business consists of sales of branded products, and these sales are difficult to forecast. Failure to accurately forecast these sales could lead to costly overproduction or product shortages. A substantial portion of our sales consists of sales of branded products. We expect these sales to increase in the future, and if we are successful in increasing branded sales as a percentage of net sales, our quarterly sales and operating results will become more dependent upon the volume and timing of branded product orders received during the quarter. Because many customers of our branded products typically place orders shortly before their requested shipment date, revenues from branded sales are difficult to forecast. With continued industry-wide initiatives by distributors and resellers to reduce their inventories and to shorten their lead 14 times, our major distributor and reseller customers are reducing early commitments to firm orders. Furthermore, many purchasers typically require prompt delivery of products. This results in a limited backlog of orders for these products and requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated customer demand. The inability to accurately forecast the timing and volume of orders for branded products during any given quarter could adversely affect operating results for such quarter and, potentially, for future periods. If we underestimate sales, we will not be able to fill orders on a timely basis. This could cause customer dissatisfaction and loss of future business. If we overestimate sales, we will experience increased costs from inventory storage, waste, and obsolescence. We will need to expand sales through distributors and resellers in order to develop our business and increase revenue. We expect to rely increasingly on distributors and resellers, VARs, and systems integrators for the distribution and sale of our branded products. Our strategy contemplates the expansion of our distributor and reseller network both domestically and internationally, particularly in Asia. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train, and motivate new distributors and resellers and expand our relationships with current distributors and resellers. We may not be successful in expanding our distributor and reseller relationships. We will be required to invest significant additional resources in order to expand these relationships, and the cost of this investment may exceed the margins generated from this investment. In addition, distributors and resellers often have rights of return, and in the future, these returns from our existing or any new distributors and resellers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our agreements with our current distributors and resellers are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated on short notice by either party without cause, and any new distributor or reseller agreements are likely to contain similar provisions. Distributors and resellers are not obligated to purchase products from us and frequently offer products of several different manufacturers, including competitors’ products, and distributors and resellers may give higher priority to the sale of our competitors’ products. A reduction in sales efforts by our distributors or resellers could lead to a reduction in our sales and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully develop our international distribution networks and international sales efforts, results of operations may suffer. We are working to develop, integrate, and expand our international distribution networks in an effort to increase international sales of switching, extension, remote access, and other products. We may not be successful in developing or expanding the international distribution network or in marketing and selling products in foreign markets, particularly Asia. If the revenues generated by our international sales are not adequate to recover the expense of establishing, expanding, and maintaining an international distribution network, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If international sales become a more significant component of net sales, our business could become more vulnerable to the risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including: • Difficulties in managing foreign resellers; • Longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; • The effects of seasonal customer demand; • Changes in regulatory requirements; • Difficulties in meeting the requirements of different international product regulations; • Risks relating to the protection of our intellectual property rights; • The impact on our marketing expenses and our research and development resources as we localize our product offerings to meet local user requirements such as language translations and hardware compatibility issues; • Export restrictions, tariffs, and other trade barriers; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • Potentially adverse tax consequences and political instability. The existence or occurrence of any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 We are dependent upon third-party suppliers and outsourced manufacturing. Disruption of our access to these supplies and services, or problems with the quality of supplies or services, could prevent us from filling customer orders and harm our business. The principal components of our products are electronic components, power supplies, semiconductors, memory, cable assemblies, line filters, enclosures, and printed circuit boards, all of which are purchased from outside vendors. We generally buy components under purchase orders and generally do not have long-term agreements with our suppliers. Also, we generally do not maintain large inventories of components. Any termination of, or significant disruption of, our relationships with the suppliers of our product components may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner which could result in customer dissatisfaction and lost sales. We have occasionally experienced, and we may in the future experience, shortages or delays in delivery of components. Although alternate suppliers are available for most of the components and services needed to produce our products, the number of suppliers of some components is limited, and qualifying a replacement supplier and receiving components from alternate suppliers could take several months. We have limited ability to control quality issues (particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parities), and we depend upon suppliers to deliver components that are free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost, and in compliance with specifications and delivery schedules. Disruption in supply, a significant increase in the cost of one or more components, failure of a third party supplier to remain competitive in functionality or price, or the failure of a supplier to comply with any of our procurement needs could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to customers on a timely basis, thereby delaying our revenue recognition and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on third party manufacturers for subassembly of products and for final assembly, quality assurance, and testing of some of our products. These outsourcing arrangements and any future outsourcing arrangements involve numerous risks, including the economic and financial viability of these manufacturers, reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty obligations on the part of such manufacturers, we are primarily responsible to our customers for warranty obligations. Our products are subject to warranty claims and returns. Increased warranty claims or returns could harm our business. We typically offer a 30-day unconditional money-back guarantee on our appliance products sold in North America. We also offer warranties for parts and service on all our products, ranging from one to three years (and, in the case of some of our Equinox branded products, five years). Although our historical return experience has not been significant, our returns may increase in the future. An increase in returns would have an adverse effect on our sales and could negatively affect our financial results. We may, as a result of competitive pressures or customer demands, change our warranty policies in the future to provide coverage that is greater in scope and duration than the coverage we currently offer. If we were to increase our warranty coverage, our risk of warranty claims, and therefore our warranty expense and reserves, would likely increase. We must meet the increased demands on customer service operations or customer satisfaction and sales could suffer. Continued growth of our sales is likely to be accompanied by increasing demands on customer service operations. As a result of our commitment to a high level of customer service, we will need to invest significant resources in the maintenance and improvement of our customer service resources. Any failure to maintain adequate customer service could cause customer dissatisfaction, result in reduced sales of products and, accordingly, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Executive officers and other key personnel may depart, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our ability to grow the business. We are greatly dependent on the ability to retain key management, sales, and technical personnel, and our future success is highly dependent upon the personal efforts of our management, sales, and technical personnel. The loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have historically used stock options as a key component in our executive and employee compensation programs in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. Many of our employee stock options either have exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces the value of the stock options to employees, or are fully vested. This could affect our ability to retain present employees. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have finalized changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that now require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy, or find it 16 difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Competition for employees with the skills required, particularly engineering and other technical personnel, is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain highly skilled employees in sufficient numbers to sustain our current business or to support future growth. We may need to offer additional compensation or incentives to attract and retain these and other employees. Difficulties encountered during changing economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. For the last several years, we have experienced rapid revenue and customer growth and expansion in the number of employees, product offerings, customers, operating locations, and suppliers. In addition, we have acquired a number of companies in the same time period. This growth and these acquisitions have placed significant strain on our managerial, operational, and financial resources and resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel. There can be no assurance that our management, personnel, systems, procedures, and controls are, or will be, adequate to support our existing and future operations or that we will continue to grow. Our ability to effectively manage during changing economic conditions will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial, and information systems and internal controls and will likely require additional management personnel. In addition, we believe that we must continue to develop greater engineering, marketing, sales, and customer service capabilities in order to develop new products and technologies, secure new customers, and effectively serve the evolving needs of present and future customers. We may not be successful in strengthening these capabilities. Without adequate management, engineering, product development, marketing, sales, and customer service capabilities, our ability to effectively manage during changing economic conditions, expand and enhance our product lines, further penetrate existing markets, and develop new markets will be significantly limited. If we are unable to effectively manage during changing economic conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Because our business and operating results depend to a significant extent on the general conditions in the server market, any adverse change in the server market due to adverse economic conditions, declining capital spending levels, or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, we continue to see industry-wide initiatives by OEMs and by distributors and resellers to reduce their inventories and to shorten their lead times, thereby reducing early commitments to firm orders by our major OEM and our distributor and reseller customers. We have limited protection of proprietary rights and face risks of third party infringements. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect proprietary rights in our products. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by invoking the benefits of the patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and unfair competition laws of the United States and other countries. These laws, however, afford only limited protection. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, or that the steps we take in the future, will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or technologies or that our competitors will not independently develop proprietary or other technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or technologies. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued several patents to us for various aspects of our products. We have various corresponding patent applications pending under the provisions of the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which permits the filing of corresponding foreign patent applications in numerous foreign countries within a limited time period. We also have other United States and foreign patent applications pending. There can be no assurance that any additional patents will be issued from any of those pending applications or that any patents will be issued in any additional countries where our products can be sold. Claims allowed in our patents or in any pending patent applications may not be of sufficient scope or strength for, or provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. Also, competitors may develop their own intellectual property or technologies, obtain their own patents, or challenge the validity of, or be able to design around, our patents. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, or sold (particularly certain countries in Asia) may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus increase the likelihood of piracy of our technologies and products. In 2005, we settled our patent infringement suit against Raritan Computer Inc. We received an initial payment of $5 million, and we will receive royalty payments for five years based on a fixed percentage of the sales of certain Raritan products subject to a minimum quarterly payment of $750,000. In October 2003, we filed a complaint for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Alabama against ClearCube Technology, Inc. The ClearCube complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs under three Avocent patents. ClearCube has filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, unenforceability, invalidity, and misuse of the Avocent patents. A Markman hearing on claims construction was held in February 2006. We may initiate claims or litigation against other third parties for infringement of proprietary rights or to establish the validity of proprietary rights. Similarly, our competitors may initiate claims or litigation against us alleging infringement of their 17 proprietary rights or improper use of their intellectual property. Existing litigation, and any other litigation relating to intellectual property to which we become a party, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risk of counterclaims or other litigation against us, and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Litigation is expensive, and the existing litigation or any other litigation by or against us could result in significant additional expense and divert the efforts of technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable determination. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, suspend or cease the manufacture, use, and sale of any infringing products, expend significant resources to redesign products or develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes, or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in such development or that such licenses would be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and any such development or license could require us to expend substantial time and other resources. In the event that any third party makes a successful claim against us, or our customers, and a license is not made available on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The network server, electronics, and related industries are characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights or positions, which has resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have in the past been, and we may from time to time in the future be, a party in proceedings alleging infringement of intellectual property rights owned by third parties. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such intellectual property rights. However, licenses may not be offered on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or cease the manufacture of products requiring such technology. Additionally, current or future competitors could obtain patents that may prevent us from developing or selling our products. We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, technologies and companies that could disrupt our business or expose us to other risks. A key component of our engineering and product development strategy is the acquisition of technologies and companies. We recently announced that we have signed a definitive agreement to acquire Cyclades Corporation, and that transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2006. We acquired Equinox Systems Inc. in 2001, 2C Computing, Inc. in 2002, Soronti, Inc. in 2003, and Crystal Link Technologies, OSA Technologies, Inc., and Sonic Mobility, Inc. in 2004. We intend to continue to execute our strategy through the acquisition of technologies or companies or through investments in complementary companies, products, or technologies, and it is likely we will complete such acquisitions or investments in the future. These acquisitions and investments involve many risks, including the following: • Difficulty integrating the acquired company’s personnel, products, technologies, and operations; • Diversion of management’s attention; • Difficulty in combining product and technology offerings and entering into new markets or geographical areas in which we have no or limited direct experience and where our competitors may have stronger market positions; • Loss of key personnel; • Delays or difficulties in coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, facilities, and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; • Difficulty in completing projects associated with acquired in-process research and development; • Incurring amortization expense related to certain intangible assets and recording goodwill and non-amortizable assets that will be subject to impairment testing and possible impairment charges; • Dilution of existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities, including the assumption of any stock options issued by the acquired company; • Overpayment for any acquisition or investment; • Assumption of liabilities of the acquired company, including any potential intellectual property infringement claims; and • Incurring substantial write-offs, restructuring charges, and transactional expenses. 18 Our failure to manage these risks and challenges could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, if we do not successfully address these challenges in a timely manner, we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies on which the value of a transaction was based. Future transactions could cause our financial results to differ from expectations of market analysts or investors for any given quarter. Our reorganization into five separate business divisions or units could disrupt our business or affect our profitability. Our reorganization into five new business divisions became effective in the first quarter of 2006. The creation of these five business units was designed to streamline our operations and put vital decisions closer to our customers, but the allocation of our previously existing business among the five divisions could confuse and distract our customers, suppliers, and employees. In addition, the reorganization could adversely affect or delay our development and introduction of new products and technologies, result in the loss of management, technical, or other key personnel, disrupt our supplier or customer relationships, jeopardize our supplier or sales channels and our branding and marketing efforts, and increase our administrative expense, all of which could affect our profitability. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, in tax laws, or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in currency exchange losses. Currently, a majority of our international business is conducted in U.S. dollars. However, as we expand our international operations, it is likely that international business will increasingly be conducted in foreign currencies. In particular, the introduction of the euro has led many of our European customers to request or insist that our sales to them be denominated in euros instead of U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have caused, and are expected to increasingly cause, currency translation gains and losses. While we attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future quarterly and annual operating results, and we may experience currency losses in the future. Unforeseen environmental costs could negatively affect our future earnings. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, and international laws governing the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Many of our products are subject to various federal, state, and international laws governing chemical substances in products, including those regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances and those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, or personal injury claims if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that will apply to specified electronics products put on the market in the European Union as of July 1, 2006 (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) and similar legislation currently proposed in China and other countries. The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict, and liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively and on a joint and several basis. We could also face significant costs and liabilities in connection with product take-back legislation. The European Union has finalized the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including computers and peripherals, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products. This deadline to enact and implement the directive by individual European Union governments generally was August 13, 2004, although extensions were granted to some countries (such legislation, together with the directive, the “WEEE Legislation”), and producers are financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other geographies, including in the United States and Japan, the cumulative impact of which could be significant for us. We will incur some costs under the WEEE legislation but the amount and timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Provisions in our charter documents and in Delaware law may discourage potential acquisition bids for us and may prevent changes in management that stockholders may favor. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction that stockholders may favor. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging others from making tender 19 offers for shares, and as a result, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common stock from reflecting the effects of actual or rumored takeover attempts and may prevent stockholders from reselling their shares at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. These provisions may also prevent changes in management that stockholders may favor. Our charter documents do not permit stockholders to act by written consent, limit the ability of stockholders to call a stockholders meeting, and provide for a classified board of directors, which means stockholders can only elect, or remove, a limited number of directors in any given year. Furthermore, the board of directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The board of directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of such preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction without further action by our stockholders. In addition, Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us. Delaware law prevents certain Delaware corporations, including Avocent, from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with any interested stockholder for three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 