ITEM 1A. Risk Factors for further detail. In 2005, Exelon and Generation entered into certain derivatives to economically hedge a portion of the oil price exposure related to the phase-out of tax credits. These derivatives could result in after-tax cash proceeds to Exelon of up to $42 million in 2007 in the event the tax credits are completely phased out. Additionally, under current laws, the tax credits related to the production of synthetic fuel expire on December 31, 2007. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Interest rates. The Registrants use a combination of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt to reduce interest-rate exposure. The Registrants may also use interest-rate swaps when deemed appropriate to adjust exposure based upon market conditions. Additionally, the Registrants may use forward-starting interest-rate swaps and/or treasury rate locks when deemed appropriate to lock in interest-rate levels in anticipation of future financings. See ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for further information. 30 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrants Exelon Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 61 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President Clark, Frank M. 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ComEd McLean, Ian P. 57 Executive Vice President and President, Power Team Mehrberg, Randall E. 51 Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Legal Officer Moler, Elizabeth A. 58 Executive Vice President, Governmental and Environmental Affairs and Public Policy Skolds, John L. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, President, Exelon Energy Delivery and President, Exelon Generation Snodgrass, S. Gary 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Young, John F. 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer Hilzinger, Matthew F. 43 Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller Generation Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 61 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon Young, John F. 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President McLean, Ian P. 57 Executive Vice President, Exelon, and President, Power Team Crane, Christopher M. 48 Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear Schiavoni, Mark A. 51 Senior Vice President and President, Exelon Power Veurink, Jon D. 42 Vice President and Controller ComEd Name Age Position Clark, Frank M. 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mitchell, J. Barry 59 President Costello, John T. 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer McDonald, Robert K. 51 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer Pramaggiore, Anne R. 48 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs Hooker, John T. 58 Senior Vice President, Legislative and Governmental Affairs Galvanoni, Matthew R. 34 Vice President and Controller PECO Name Age Position Rowe, John W. 61 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, Exelon, and Director Young, John F. 50 Executive Vice President, Finance and Markets and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon, and Chief Financial Officer Skolds, John L. 56 Executive Vice President, Exelon, President, Exelon Energy Delivery, and Director O’Brien, Denis P. 46 President and Director Crutchfield, Lisa 43 Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs Galvanoni, Matthew R. 34 Vice President and Controller 31 Table of Contents Each of the above executive officers holds such office at the discretion of the respective company’s board of directors until his or her replacement or earlier resignation, retirement or death. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Rowe was President and Co-Chief Executive of Exelon, Co-Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and President, Co-Chief Executive Officer of PECO; and Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd and Unicom. Mr. Rowe was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Clark was Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff of Exelon and President of ComEd; Senior Vice President, Distribution Customer and Marketing Services and External Affairs of ComEd; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd; Governmental Affairs Vice President; and Governmental Affairs Manager. Mr. Clark was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Mr. Clark is listed as an executive officer of Exelon by reason of his position as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ComEd. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McLean was Senior Vice President of Exelon; and President of the Power Team division of PECO. Mr. McLean was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mehrberg was Senior Vice President of Exelon. Mr. Mehrberg was elected as an officer of Exelon effective December 3, 2001. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Moler was Senior Vice President, Government Affairs and Policy of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Director of Unicom and ComEd. Ms. Moler was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Skolds was Senior Vice President, Exelon, and President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear. Mr. Skolds was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Snodgrass was Chief Administrative Officer of Exelon; Senior Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; Vice President of ComEd and Unicom; and Vice President of USG Corporation. Mr. Snodgrass was elected as an officer of Exelon effective October 20, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Young was President of Exelon Generation; President of Exelon Power; Senior Vice President of Sierra Pacific Resources Corporation; President of Avalon Consulting; and Executive Vice President of Southern Generation. Mr. Young was elected as an officer effective March 3, 2003. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hilzinger was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Credit Acceptance Corporation; and Vice President, Controller of Kmart Corporation. Mr. Hilzinger was elected as an officer of Exelon effective April 15, 2002. Mr. Hilzinger was Principal Accounting Officer for ComEd and PECO through December 31, 2006. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Crane was Vice President for Exelon Nuclear; and Vice President for BWR Operations of ComEd. Mr. Crane was elected as an officer of Generation effective December 27, 2000. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Schiavoni was Vice President of Operations; and Vice President of Northeast Operations of Exelon Power. Mr. Schiavoni was elected as an officer of Generation effective September 8, 2003. 32 Table of Contents Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Veurink was a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP. Mr. Veurink was elected as an officer of Generation effective January 5, 2004. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Mitchell was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO; Vice President and Treasurer of Exelon; and Vice President, Treasury and Evaluation, and Treasurer of PECO. Mr. Mitchell was elected as President of ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Costello was Senior Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery Technical Services. Mr. Costello was Senior Vice President of Exelon Energy Delivery Customer and Marketing Services; and Vice President, Customer Operations. Mr. Costello was elected to his listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. McDonald was Senior Vice President of Planning and Chief Risk Officer of Exelon. Mr. McDonald has also served as Chief Risk Officer of Exelon, Vice President of Planning of Exelon and Vice President of Risk Management of Exelon. He was elected to his listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Pramaggiore was Vice President, Regulatory and Strategic Services of ComEd. She has also served as Lead Counsel of ComEd. Ms. Pramaggiore was elected to her listed position with ComEd effective November 28, 2005. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. Hooker served as Senior Vice President, ComEd, Legislative and External Affairs and Exelon Energy Delivery Real Estate and Property Management. Mr. Hooker has also served as Vice President Exelon Energy Delivery Property Management and ComEd Legislative and External Affairs; Vice President Distribution Services and Public Affairs; and Vice President of Governmental Affairs. Prior to his election to his listed position, Mr. O’Brien was Executive Vice President of PECO; Vice President of Operations of PECO; Director of Transmission and Substations of PECO; and Director of BucksMont Region of PECO. Mr. O’Brien was elected as an officer of PECO effective January 1, 2001. Prior to his election to his listed positions, Mr. Galvanoni was Director of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Exelon. Mr. Galvanoni has also served as Director of Accounting and Reporting, Generation; Director of Reporting, Exelon; and was a senior manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Mr. Galvanoni was elected to his listed positions effective January 1, 2007. Prior to her election to her listed position, Ms. Crutchfield served as Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, PECO; and Vice President and General Manager at Southern Service Center. Ms. Crutchfield was elected to her listed position effective January 1, 2007. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Registrants each operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond their control. The Registrants’ management regularly evaluates the most significant risks of the Registrants’ businesses and discusses those risks with the Risk Oversight Committee of the Exelon Board of Directors and the ComEd Board of Directors. The following items identify the material risks that the Registrants’ management discussed in December 2006. • The safe and efficient operation of Generation’s nuclear fleet is a significant factor in Exelon’s results of operations. Although Generation’s nuclear plants are among the most efficient in the United States, there is a risk that Generation’s nuclear capacity factors could be significantly lower than planned or operating or fuel costs could be significantly higher than expected. 33 Table of Contents • After 2006 in Illinois, Generation has been selling, and after 2010 in Pennsylvania, Generation will be selling more of its electricity through bilateral agreements with new and existing counterparties at prices susceptible to market fluctuations. As a result, over time Exelon will shift from a company with relatively stable cash flows from its regulated affiliates to a company with cash flows that could vary significantly with changes in market prices for electricity and natural gas. • Prior to 2007, Generation supplied electricity to ComEd at prices that were below market prices. Generation supplies electricity to PECO at prices that are currently below prevailing market prices under a PPA that expires at the end of 2010. ComEd’s customers are experiencing increases in their costs for electric service beginning in 2007, and PECO’s customers could expect to see increases in their electric bills after 2010. In Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states, there is growing pressure on state regulators and governments to take steps to reduce the impact of price increases on retail customers. A move away from fully competitive generation markets as a result of regulatory or statutory requirements could significantly affect Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations. • ComEd’s and PECO’s business plans are based on the assumption that the utilities will receive fair regulatory treatment and therefore, based on current Federal and state regulatory structures, can recover from customers revenue sufficient to cover their costs and earn a fair return. ComEd and PECO face the risk that rates for electric service will be set at levels that do not cover their costs of the purchase and distribution of electricity plus a fair return on their investments in transmission and distribution systems. • Generation attempts to reduce its exposure to energy market price fluctuations through derivative transactions. Hedging increases liquidity requirements due to margining requirements. Generation’s current PPA with PECO does not include a margin requirement. Beginning in 2007, Generation’s forward supply contracts with ComEd and third parties in Illinois do include margin requirements. Beginning in 2011, Generation’s contracts for supply of electricity to PECO may also include margin requirements. Generation will need to maintain expanded credit facilities to meet these margin requirements. • Exelon and Generation maintain and manage trust funds to meet future employee pension, postretirement and nuclear decommissioning costs. The fund investments are market instruments that will yield uncertain returns. There is a risk that the fund investments may not achieve projected returns, which could adversely affect Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations and cash flows. • Active employee and retiree health care and pension cost are a significant part of Exelon’s cost structure. The costs associated with health care or pension obligations could escalate at rates higher than anticipated, which would adversely affect Exelon’s results of operations and cash flows. • The nature of the Registrants’ businesses has the potential to have significant effects on the general public due to severe weather, environmental or nuclear incidents, gas explosions, or prolonged electricity outages. The financial impact of an incident that interrupts the normal operation of a Registrant’s business for an extended period of time could be significant. • Exelon is subject to extensive environmental regulation and associated compliance costs. Regulations under section 316(b) of the Federal Clean Water Act require actions to address the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms in the cooling water intakes of electric generation facilities. A number of Generation’s facilities will be affected by these regulations, which could impose significant compliance costs on Generation for required modifications of its facilities. The risks listed above are discussed in further detail below, along with other risk factors identified by the Registrants. These risk factors, as well as the risks discussed in ITEM 7. Management’s 34 Table of Contents Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Exelon—Liquidity and Capital Resources, may adversely affect the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. While each of the Registrants believes it has identified and discussed the key risk factors affecting its business, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be significant that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition. Generation Market Transition Risks Due to its dependence on two of its significant customers, ComEd and PECO, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non-performance or change in the creditworthiness of either of its most significant customers. Generation currently provides power under a PPA with PECO and supplier forward contracts with ComEd to meet 100% of PECO’s electricity supply requirements and up to 35% of ComEd’s electricity supply requirements. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEd’s and PECO’s continued payments under these supplier forward contracts and the PPA and would be adversely affected by negative events affecting these agreements, including the non-performance or a change in the creditworthiness of either ComEd or PECO. A default by ComEd or PECO under these agreements would have an adverse effect on Generation’s results of operations and financial position. Generation’s business may be negatively affected by the restructuring of the energy industry. Regional Transmission Organizations. Generation is dependent on wholesale energy markets and open transmission access and rights by which Generation delivers power to its wholesale customers, including ComEd and PECO. Generation uses the wholesale regional energy markets to sell power that Generation does not need to satisfy its long-term contractual obligations, to meet long-term obligations not provided by its own resources and to take advantage of price opportunities. Wholesale markets have only been implemented in certain areas of the country and each market has unique features, which may create trading barriers among the markets. Approximately 79% of Generation’s generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long-term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generation’s future results of operations, however, will depend on (1) FERC’s continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the development of competitive wholesale power markets, such as the PJM market and (2) with respect to PJM, the absence of material changes to market structure that limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the market. Provider of Last Resort. PECO and ComEd have POLR obligations to meet their respective retail customers’ energy supply needs. To enable it to fulfill that obligation through the end of 2010, PECO has a full-requirements PPA with Generation. To fulfill its obligation for energy supply beginning in 2007, ComEd has and will in the future conduct procurement auctions. In the first ICC-approved procurement auction, 14 wholesale suppliers, including Generation, won the right to provide to ComEd the energy supply it needs to serve its retail customers from January 1, 2007 through May 31, 2008. Generation’s share of this supply is 35%. Because retail customers in both Pennsylvania and Illinois can switch from PECO or ComEd to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet PECO’s obligation to supply PECO with all of the energy PECO needs to fulfill its POLR obligation and to provide the supply needed to serve Generation’s 35% share of the ComEd load is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting 35 Table of Contents projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is the ability of retail customers to switch to competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the PECO and/or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generation’s costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generation’s revenues. If more of such customers switch than Generation anticipates, the PECO and /or ComEd load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, caused Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to competition in the energy industry. Generation’s financial performance depends in part on its ability to respond to competition in the energy industry. As a result of industry restructuring, numerous generation companies created by the disaggregation of vertically integrated utilities have become active in the wholesale power generation business. In addition, independent power producers have become prevalent in the wholesale power industry. These new generating facilities may be more efficient than Generation’s facilities. The introduction of new technologies could lower prices and have an adverse effect on Generation’s results of operations or financial condition. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. Generation’s financial growth depends in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. As the demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Both Illinois and Pennsylvania statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass these tests administered by FERC, it could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Nuclear Operations Risks Generation’s financial performance may be negatively affected by liabilities arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generation’s results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generation’s operating costs by requiring Generation to generate additional energy from its fossil or hydroelectric facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generation’s obligations to ComEd and PECO and other committed third-party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to generate energy from its nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and currently average approximately 24 days in duration. When refueling outages at wholly and co-owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and/or lower energy sales. Each 24-day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. The number of refueling outages, including the AmerGen plants and the co-owned plants, was 11 in 2006 with 9 planned for 2007. The projected total non-fuel capital expenditures for the nuclear plants operated by Generation will increase 36 Table of Contents in 2007 compared to 2006 by approximately $37 million as Generation continues to invest in equipment upgrades to ensure safe reliable operations. Total operating and maintenance expenditures are expected to increase by approximately $52 million in 2007 compared to 2006 as a result of inflationary cost increases. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generation’s operations. Certain of Generation’s nuclear units have been identified as having a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions, including those required to address performance issues, could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization and/or increased outage costs. It is difficult to predict the total cost of these remediation procedures. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of spent nuclear fuel, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Also, any regulatory action relating to the availability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel may adversely affect Generation’s ability to fully decommission the nuclear units. In addition, through the NRC’s “waste confidence” rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 30 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generation’s nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generation’s results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs. Should a national policy for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for spent nuclear fuel could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses, and may affect Generation’s ability to fully decommission its nuclear units. Environmental risk. If application of the Section 316(b) regulations establishing a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts from the entrainment and impingement of aquatic organisms at existing generating stations requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Oyster Creek, Salem or other Exelon power plants, this could result in material costs of compliance. In addition, the amount of the costs required to retrofit Oyster Creek may negatively impact Generation’s decision to renew the operating license. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generation’s nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation 37 Table of Contents may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co-owners. Nuclear accident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors, including Generation’s, generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed Generation’s resources, including insurance coverages, and significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price-Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance (currently $300 million for each operating site). Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $10.76 billion limit for a single incident. Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company to which Generation belongs, provides property and business interruption insurance for Generation’s nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members. Generation’s portion of the NEIL distribution for 2006 was $44 million, which was recorded as a reduction to operating and maintenance expenses in its Consolidated Statement of Operations. Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generation’s four retired units) addressing Generation’s ability to meet the NRC-estimated funding levels (NRC Funding Levels) including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. As of December 31, 2006, Generation identified trust funds for 6 units, which, at current market levels, are being funded at a rate less than anticipated with respect to NRC Funding Levels. In December 2006, Generation made a submission to the NRC addressing this issue, demonstrating in accordance with NRC requirements, that the trust funds for these 6 units indeed met NRC Funding Levels and remain adequately funded compared to the NRC Funding Level, when using alternate evaluation criteria allowed by NRC regulations. The NRC Funding Levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence at the end of current licensed life. Forecasting investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generation’s nuclear decommissioning trusts are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generation’s nuclear plants, Generation may be required to provide other means of funding its decommissioning obligations. Other Operating Risks Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. A significant portion of Generation’s portfolio is used to provide power under a long-term PPA with PECO and supplier forward contracts with ComEd beginning January 2007, as a result of the expiration of the PPA between Generation and ComEd at the end of 2006. To the extent portions of the 38 Table of Contents portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generation’s output is sold on the wholesale market. To the extent its portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of ComEd and PECO under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generation’s financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost-effectively meet the load requirements of ComEd and PECO, manage its power portfolio and effectively handle the changes in the wholesale power markets. Generation relies on the availability of electric transmission facilities that it does not own or control to deliver its wholesale electric power to the purchasers of the power, which may adversely affect its ability to deliver power to its customers. Generation depends on transmission facilities owned and operated by other companies, including ComEd and PECO, to deliver the power that it sells at wholesale. If transmission at these facilities is disrupted or transmission capacity is inadequate, Generation may not be able to sell and deliver its wholesale power. The North American transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at a point within the grid can cause a systemic response that results in an extensive power outage. If a region's power transmission infrastructure is inadequate, Generation’s recovery of wholesale costs and profits may be limited. In addition, if restrictive transmission price regulation is imposed, the transmission companies may not have sufficient incentive to invest in expansion of transmission infrastructure. FERC has required electric transmission services to be offered unbundled from commodity sales since 1996. Although this encourages wholesale market transactions for electricity, access to transmission systems may not be available if transmission capacity is insufficient because of physical constraints or because it is contractually unavailable. Generation also cannot predict whether transmission facilities will be expanded in specific markets to accommodate competitive access to those markets. The expansion of PJM and the growth of other RTOs mitigate this risk to a degree as RTOs facilitate bilateral transactional activity in the physical wholesale markets wholly within those RTOs without any need to secure transmission service. Generation is exposed to price fluctuations and other risks of the wholesale power market that are beyond its control, which may negatively impact its results of operations. Generation fulfills its energy commitments from the output of the generating facilities that it owns as well as through buying electricity under long-term and short-term contracts in both the wholesale bilateral and spot markets. The excess or deficiency of energy owned or controlled by Generation compared to its obligations exposes Generation to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets, and Generation’s cash flows may vary accordingly. Generation’s cash flows from generation that is not used to meet its long-term supply commitments, including its commitments to ComEd and PECO, are largely dependent on wholesale prices of electricity and Generation’s ability to successfully market energy, capacity and ancillary services. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity supplied would be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, primarily natural gas. Consequently, the open-market wholesale price of electricity likely reflects the cost of natural gas plus the cost to convert natural gas to electricity. Therefore, changes in the supply and cost of natural gas generally affect the open market wholesale price of electricity. Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money or energy will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to 39 Table of Contents purchase or sell power in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to the risks of whatever default mechanisms exist in that market, some of which attempt to spread the risk across all participants, which may or may not be an effective way of lessening the severity of the risk and the amounts at stake. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. Generation’s credit risk profile is anticipated to change based on the creditworthiness of new and existing counterparties, including ComEd and Ameren. Additionally, due to the possibility of rate freeze legislation in Illinois affecting both ComEd and Ameren, Generation may be subject to the risk of default and, in the event of a bankruptcy filing by ComEd or Ameren, a risk that the bankruptcy may result in rejection of contracts for the purchase of electricity. A default by ComEd or Ameren on contracts for purchase of electricity, or a rejection of those contracts in a bankruptcy proceeding, could result in a disruption in the wholesale power markets. For additional information on the ComEd auction and the various regulatory proceedings and possible legislative actions, see Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the retail businesses subject Generation to credit risk resulting from a different customer base. Risk of Credit Downgrades. Generation’s trading business is required to meet credit quality standards. If Generation were to lose its investment grade credit rating or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under trading agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. If Generation had lost its investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2006, it would have been required to provide approximately $880 million in collateral. Immature Markets. Certain wholesale spot markets are new and evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets, as was experienced in California in 2000, could adversely affect Generation’s business. Hedging. Power Team buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generation’s power generation portfolio. This activity may cause volatility in Generation’s future results of operations. Weather. Generation’s operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. Generation plans its business based upon normal weather assumptions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual requirements. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation capacity and transmission, limiting Generation’s ability to source or send power to where it is sold. These conditions, which may not have been fully anticipated, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when those markets are weak. Generation’s risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its energy trading activities. Power Team's power trading (including fuel procurement and power marketing) activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with 40 Table of Contents these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its power trading and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generation’s business is capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects. Generation’s results of operations could be adversely affected if Generation were unable to effectively manage its capital projects. Generation’s financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of fossil and nuclear fuel. Generation depends on coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel assemblies to operate its generating facilities. Coal is procured for coal-fired plants through annual, short-term and spot-market purchases. Natural gas is procured through annual, monthly and spot-market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained through long-term uranium concentrate inventory and supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel assemblies are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. It is not possible to predict the ultimate cost or availability of these commodities. Generation uses long-term contracts and financial instruments such as over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments to mitigate price risk associated with these commodity price exposures. ComEd and PECO The following risk factors separately apply to each ComEd and PECO as further noted below. Regulatory Risks Changes in ComEd’s and PECO’s terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and/or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines, which may not be limited by statute. Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. For example, in ComEd’s most recent rate cases in Illinois, the ICC took eleven months to issue its orders which were followed by rehearing proceedings and numerous appeals. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters and customer initiatives. These settlements are typically subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by the Illinois and Pennsylvania state regulators for establishing rates. Nevertheless, the expectation is that 41 Table of Contents ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR obligations, whereby each utility is required to provide electricity service to customers in its service area who choose to obtain their electricity from the utility. The ultimate outcome of these regulatory actions will have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEd’s and PECO’s results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, lengthy proceedings and time delays in implementing new rates relative to when costs are actually incurred could have a material adverse effect on ComEd’s and PECO’s results of operations and cash flows. ComEd’s and PECO’s established rates are subject to subsequent prudency reviews by the state regulators. The ICC and PAPUC can adjust various portions of ComEd’s and PECO’s, respectively, established rates, including rates for the procurement of electricity and the recovery of MGP remediation costs, in the regulatory process as a result of subsequent prudency reviews. The prudency reviews add uncertainty to established rates. Increases in customer rates may lead to a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances for ComEd and PECO. Future recoverability of any additional uncollectible customer balances is subject to regulatory proceedings. Effective January 2007, ComEd’s customer rates for delivery service and procurement of electricity increased. Additionally, ComEd’s residential customers have the choice to elect to defer certain increases to future periods. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. PECO’s gas rates may change quarterly based on market conditions which may lead to higher prices. Additionally, PECO’s electric rates have increased in recent years as permitted under the Electric Restructuring Settlement and the PECO/Unicom Merger Settlement Agreements. Due to increased rates and the future collection of deferred balances, ComEd and PECO may experience a greater amount of uncollectible customer balances. ComEd may file for voluntary relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code if rate rollback and freeze legislation is enacted into law. In January 2007, ComEd began billing customers under new rates approved by the ICC. These rates reflect the pricing in supplier forward contracts entered into as a result of a reverse-auction competitive bidding process for ComEd’s procurement of electricity. Various governmental and consumer groups have opposed the increased rates that are a byproduct of this auction, and legislation previously proposed in the Illinois House that, if enacted, would provide for a rate rollback and three-year rate freeze extension. If such legislation is enacted into law, ComEd would have contractual obligations to purchase electricity under the supplier forward contracts at prices higher than the rates it would be allowed to collect from its customers for electricity. ComEd has estimated that it could incur operating losses of approximately $1.4 billion per year ($850 million after taxes) or more, depending on various factors, if rates were rolled back and the transition period rate freeze is extended through 2009. Also, ComEd’s ability to obtain new financing or the ability to refinance maturing debt instruments in 2007, would be severely limited due to expected shortfalls in cash flow, likely further credit downgrades to below investment grade and the threat of a bankruptcy filing. ComEd’s projected cash shortfall under a rate freeze extension is anticipated to be approximately $1.4 billion or more in 2007. If rate rollback and rate freeze legislation is passed and allowed to take effect, the associated negative financial implications could lead ComEd to file for voluntary relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. 42 Table of Contents The impact of not meeting the criteria of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS No. 71) could be material to ComEd and PECO. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of SFAS No. 71. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd, and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one-time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss). The impact of not meeting the criteria of SFAS No. 71 could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2006, the income statement gain could have been as much as $2.3 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEd’s regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2006, the income statement charge could have been as much as $3.7 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECO’s regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record an income statement gain or charge in an equal amount related to ComEd’s and PECO’s regulatory assets and liabilities in addition to a charge against other comprehensive income of up to $1.4 billion (before taxes) related to Exelon’s regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEd’s goodwill, which would be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A write-off of regulatory assets and liabilities also could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law. See Notes 1, 4, 8 and 19 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory issues, ComEd’s goodwill and regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Mandatory RPS could negatively affect ComEd’s and PECO’s costs. Federal or state legislation mandating the use of renewable and alternative fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could result in significant changes in ComEd’s and PECO’s businesses, including renewable energy credit purchase costs, purchased power and potentially renewable energy credit costs and capital expenditures. ComEd and PECO continue to monitor developments related to RPSs at the Federal and state levels. For additional information, see ITEM 1. Business “Environmental Regulation—Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards”. ComEd and PECO could be subject to higher transmission operating costs in the future as a result of PJM’s regional transmission expansion plan (RTEP). On November 7, 2006, FERC established hearing procedures to review the cost allocations proposed by PJM for a number of PJM mandated RTEP projects that will be placed into service over the next three years. ComEd and PECO did not challenge PJM’s allocations of cost to them but, due to the uncertain scope of the matter and the nature of certain allocation issues specifically reserved for hearing, the matter may have an adverse impact on ComEd’s and PECO’s operating costs in the future. PECO may be subject to the risk of a legislative or regulatorily mandated requirement to purchase Philadelphia Gas Works (PGW). PGW is a municipal gas utility owned by the City of Philadelphia that provides service almost exclusively within Philadelphia. One Pennsylvania state legislator recently submitted legislation to the 43 Table of Contents Pennsylvania General Assembly that would provide the PAPUC with the authority to investigate PGW’s fitness to provide gas service and, if deemed unfit, to require a qualified public utility to purchase PGW’s gas assets. If such legislation is enacted, PECO, with a gas service territory contiguous to, and an electric service territory that includes Philadelphia, could be subject to a proceeding in which efforts are made to require PECO to purchase PGW’s gas assets. While PECO believes that such a forced purchase would be unlawful, such a proceeding could expose PECO potentially to significant economic risk. PECO may be required to change various business processes as a result of PAPUC management audit findings. Under Pennsylvania law, a public utility is subject to a broad management and operations audit conducted by the PAPUC or a consultant hired by the PAPUC every five to eight years. PECO is currently undergoing such an audit by a consultant hired by the PAPUC. Areas of the audit include, among others, electric and gas operations, corporate governance, customer service, and affiliate relations. A final audit report is expected to be issued by the PAPUC in the third quarter of 2007. The audit could result in recommendations that PECO change various business processes to improve its effectiveness in providing electric and gas service to its customers. Financial and Operating Risks ComEd’s and PECO’s respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. Demand for electricity within ComEd’s and PECO’s service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. In addition, as with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. ComEd’s and PECO’s operating costs, and customers’ and regulators’ opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. Failures of the equipment or facilities used in ComEd’s and PECO’s delivery systems can interrupt the transmission and delivery of electricity and related revenues and increase repair expenses and capital expenditures. Those failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction, the level of regulatory oversight and ComEd’s and PECO’s maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in the event of extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers. The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers may decrease PECO’s results of operations and cash flows. Gas rates charged to customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to PECO, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to PECO. Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customer’s bill and may be adjusted quarterly, are designed for PECO to recover the cost of the gas commodity and pipeline transportation and storage services that PECO procures to service its customers. PECO’s cash flows can be impacted by differences between the time period when gas is purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. 44 Table of Contents When purchased gas cost charges increase substantially reflecting higher gas procurement costs incurred by PECO, customer usage may decrease, resulting in lower distribution charges and lower profit margins for PECO. In addition, increased purchased gas cost charges to customers also may result in increased bad debt expense from an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances. The effects of weather and the related impact on electricity and gas usage may decrease ComEd’s and PECO’s results of operations. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Because of seasonal pricing differentials, coupled with higher consumption levels, ComEd and PECO typically report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year. However, extreme weather conditions or storms may stress ComEd’s and PECO’s transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each company’s ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEd’s and PECO’s operations. ComEd’s and PECO’s businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. ComEd’s and PECO’s businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in internal infrastructure projects. ComEd’s and PECO’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if they are unable to effectively manage their own respective capital projects or if they do not receive full recovery of their own respective capital costs through future regulatory proceedings. Other Exelon’s and ComEd’s goodwill may become impaired, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.7 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2006 in connection with the PECO/Unicom merger. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), goodwill will remain at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is based upon an annual analysis prescribed by SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142) that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, such as the impairments recorded during 2006 and 2005, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written off and expensed, reducing equity. There is a possibility that additional goodwill may be impaired at ComEd, and at Exelon, in 2007 or later periods. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments in future years will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables, including changing interest rates, utility sector market performance, ComEd’s capital structure, market prices for power, results of ComEd’s post-2006 rate proceedings, operating and capital expenditure requirements and other factors, some not yet known. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on Exelon’s and ComEd’s operating results. See ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates for further discussion on goodwill impairments. 45 Table of Contents General Business The following risk factors may adversely impact several or all of the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows. Exelon’s generation and energy delivery businesses may be negatively affected by possible state legislative or regulatory actions that could limit the retail price of electricity or place burdens on its generation business. Criticism of restructured electricity markets in public forums escalated during 2006 as retail rate freezes expired in a number of states as fuel prices increased, thereby driving up retail prices for electricity. ComEd’s customers are experiencing increases in their costs for electric service beginning in 2007, and PECO’s customers could expect to see increases in their electric bills after 2010. Consumers in other states are also experiencing significant rate increases. In Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states, there is growing pressure for state regulatory and political processes to take steps to reduce the impact of price increases on retail customers. The political pressure for states to retreat from allowing competitively-priced supplies to serve retail load and to return to cost-based regulation of generation resources or take other actions directed at generators of electricity creates heightened risk of limitations on the retail price of electricity, which could significantly affect the results of operations of ComEd and PECO, and a heightened risk of imposition of restrictions and other burdens on Exelon’s generation business, which could significantly affect Generation’s results of operations. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal legislative or regulatory actions that could weaken competition in the wholesale markets or affect pricing rules in the RTO markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which escalated during 2006 as retail rate freezes expired and prices for electricity increased with rising fuel prices, is expected to continue in 2007. A number of advocacy groups have urged FERC to reconsider its support for competitive wholesale electricity markets, and to require the RTOs to revise the rules governing the RTO-administered markets. In particular, the advocacy groups oppose the RTOs’ use of a “single clearing price” for electricity sold in the RTO markets. FERC has announced that it will convene a series of public conferences during 2007 to address the issues surrounding electric competition. While FERC has not proposed to revise its pricing rules, these events create heightened risk of changes in FERC’s rules governing wholesale electricity markets, which in turn could significantly affect Generation’s results of operations. In addition, FERC has proposed to revise the tests that market participants must satisfy to be entitled to market-based rates. The actual impacts of any new rules that are approved as a result of FERC’s future ruling related to market-based rates could significantly affect Generation’s results of operations. Results of operations may be negatively affected by increasing costs. Inflation affects the Registrants through increased operating costs and increased capital costs for plant and equipment. As a result of the regulatory recovery process for ComEd and PECO, rate caps for PECO and price pressures due to competition, ComEd and PECO may not be able to recover the costs of inflation from their customers on a timely basis. In addition, the Registrants face rising medical benefit costs, including the current costs for active and retired employees. These medical benefit costs are increasing at a rate that is significantly greater than the rate of general inflation. Additionally, it is possible that these costs may increase at a rate which is higher than anticipated by the Registrants. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage their medical benefit costs or other increasing costs, their results of operations could be negatively affected. 46 Table of Contents Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations to decommission Generation’s nuclear plants and under Exelon’s pension and postretirement benefit plans. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants’ projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets, as was experienced from 2000 to 2002, may increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Exelon’s pension and postretirement benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans. If the Registrants are unable to successfully manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets, their results of operation and financial position could be negatively affected. Exelon’s holding company structure could limit its ability to pay dividends. Exelon is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. Exelon’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends by its operating subsidiaries. The payments of dividends to Exelon by its subsidiaries in turn depend on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings. Under applicable Federal law, Generation, ComEd and PECO can pay dividends only from the amount of retained, undistributed or current earnings. Under Illinois law, ComEd may not pay any dividend on its stock, unless, among other things, its earnings and earned surplus are sufficient to declare and pay a dividend after provision is made for reasonable and proper reserves, or unless ComEd has specific authorization from the ICC. During 2006, ComEd did not pay any dividend. Exelon and Generation will be negatively affected if ComEd files for voluntary relief under the provisions of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. There is a risk that ComEd will be required to seek protection in bankruptcy if legislation is enacted in Illinois to extend the rate freeze that expired in January 2007. Exelon anticipates that a bankruptcy filing by ComEd would have significant adverse consequences for Exelon and Generation. These adverse consequences may include, but are not limited to: a significant loss in value of Exelon’s investment in ComEd; possible dilution of Exelon’s ownership interest in ComEd; possible reductions in credit ratings which could increase borrowing costs; uncertainty in collection of receivables from ComEd for services provided by BSC; uncertainty in the enforcement of Generation’s rights under its supplier forward contracts with ComEd and possible rejection of the supplier forward contracts in a ComEd bankruptcy; significant legal and other costs associated with the bankruptcy filing; possible negative income tax consequences; and possible reduced ability to effectively administer and allocate the costs of the various Exelon-sponsored benefit plans. These items, along with other possible negative effects of a ComEd bankruptcy, could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. As a result of the Energy Policy Act, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, will be subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. These standards are currently being applied on a 47 Table of Contents voluntary basis and are expected to become mandatory in June 2007. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk electric system operates reliably and is guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with new reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal and are an important aspect of their operations. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean-up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies will be one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. Generation will incur material costs of compliance if regulations under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act require retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at power plants owned by Generation. In addition, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos-related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to contribute to a fund with a material contribution to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos-related disease and exposure. In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrant’s remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. Select northeast and mid-Atlantic states have developed a model rule, via the RGGI, to regulate carbon emissions from fossil-fired generation in participating states starting in 2009. Federal and/or state legislation to regulate carbon emissions could occur in the future. If these plans become effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs to either further limit the emissions from certain of their fossil-fuel fired facilities or in procuring emission allowance credits issued by various governing bodies. For additional information regarding environmental matters, including nuclear generating station groundwater, see “Environmental Regulation” in ITEM 1 of this Form 10-K. War, acts and threats of terrorism and natural disaster may adversely affect Exelon’s results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. Exelon does not know the impact that any future terrorist attacks may have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. In addition, any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military 48 Table of Contents campaign may affect its operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. The possibility alone that infrastructure facilities, such as electric generation, electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror may affect Exelon’s operations. Additionally, the continuing military activity in Iraq, Afghanistan and other wars may have an adverse effect on the economy in general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect Exelon’s revenues or restrict its future growth. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war may affect Exelon’s results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures have resulted in and are expected to continue to result in increased costs. Additionally, Exelon is affected by changes in weather and the occurrence of hurricanes, storms and other natural disasters in its service territory and throughout the U.S. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive which could result in increased costs including supply chain costs. Changes in the availability and cost of insurance mean that the Registrants have greater exposure to economic loss due to property damage and liability. The Registrants carry property damage and liability insurance for their properties and operations. As a result of significant changes in the insurance marketplace, the available coverage and limits may be less than the amount of insurance obtained in the past, the costs of obtaining such insurance may be higher and the recovery for losses due to terrorist acts may be limited. The Registrants are self-insured for deductibles and to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained. A claim that exceeds the amounts available under property damage and liability insurance, together with the deductible, could negatively affect the Registrants’ results of operations. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), such as Exelon’s decision to defer the tax gain on ComEd’s 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected, and tax credits, including the potential phase-out of tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal, in the financial statements. Other than as noted below, the Registrants do not record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets related to capital losses that the Registrants believe will be realized in future periods. See Notes 1 and 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Increases in state income taxes and fees. Due to the revenue needs of the states in which the Registrants operate, various state income tax and fee increases have been proposed or are being considered. The Registrants cannot predict whether legislation or regulation will be introduced, the form of any legislation or regulation, whether any such legislation or regulation will be passed by the state legislatures or regulatory bodies, or, if enacted, whether any such legislation or regulation would be effective retroactively or prospectively. If enacted, these changes could increase state income tax expense and could have a negative impact on the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows. In connection with the first reverse-auction competitive bidding process, which took place in Illinois during September 2006, Exelon assessed any impacts from the results of the auction on its state 49 Table of Contents income tax obligations and considered potential strategies and/or alternative interpretations that may be employed to mitigate these impacts. As a result, Exelon does not believe the results of the auction will significantly affect the provision for state income taxes reported by Exelon on an annual basis. However, management’s estimates of future income tax rates are affected by various factors and actual income tax obligations may differ from management’s estimates. See Note 4 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the reverse-auction competitive bidding process. 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. Exelon, through its ComEd subsidiary, has taken certain tax positions, which have been disclosed to the IRS, to defer the tax gain on the 1999 sale of its fossil generating assets. Exelon’s ability to continue to defer all or a portion of this liability depends on whether its treatment of the sales proceeds as having been received in connection with an involuntary conversion is proper pursuant to applicable law. Exelon’s ability to continue to defer the remainder of this liability may depend in part on whether its tax characterization of a sale leaseback transaction into which ComEd entered in connection with the fossil plant sale is proper pursuant to applicable law. The Federal tax returns and related tax return disclosures covering the period of the 1999 sale are currently under IRS audit. The IRS has indicated its position that the ComEd sale leaseback transaction is substantially similar to a leasing transaction, a sale-in, lease-out (SILO), the IRS is treating as a “listed transaction” pursuant to guidance it issued in 2005. A listed transaction is one that the IRS considers to be a potentially abusive tax shelter. As a result of the IRS characterization of the lease transaction as a listed transaction, the IRS is likely to vigorously challenge the transaction and has sought to obtain information not normally requested in audits. Exelon disagrees with the IRS’ characterization of its sale leaseback as a SILO and believes its position is correct under the tax law and will aggressively defend that position upon audit and any subsequent appeals or litigation. In November 2006, ComEd received from the IRS a notice of proposed adjustment disallowing the deferral of gain associated with its position that proceeds from the fossil plant sales resulted from an “involuntary conversion.” ComEd plans to protest this adjustment following receipt of the final IRS audit report, which is expected in late 2007. A successful IRS challenge to ComEd’s positions would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that becomes currently payable. As of December 31, 2006, Exelon’s potential cash outflow, including tax and interest (after tax), could be as much as $960 million. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, it could negatively affect Exelon’s results of operations by as much as $166 million (after tax) related to interest expense. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Investments in synthetic fuel-producing facilities. Exelon, through three wholly owned subsidiaries, has investments in synthetic fuel-producing facilities. Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code provides tax credits for the sale of synthetic fuel produced from coal. However, Section 45K contains a provision under which tax credits are phased out (i.e., eliminated) in the event crude oil prices for a year exceed certain thresholds. Recent events, such as terrorism, natural disasters and strong worldwide demand, have significantly increased the price of domestic crude oil and, therefore, have created uncertainty as to the value of future synthetic fuel tax credits. At December 31, 2006, Exelon has estimated the 2007 phase-out of tax credits to be 18%. This estimate for 2007 may change significantly due to the volatility of oil prices. Absent any efforts to mitigate price exposure, a phase-out could result in the reduction of non-operating net income generated by the investments. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Executive Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources in ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for further detail. 50 Table of Contents Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance. Exelon and certain of its subsidiaries have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non- performance of these guaranteed obligations by the third parties, Exelon and its subsidiaries could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance could have a material impact on the financial statements of Exelon and its subsidiaries. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding guarantees. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. The Registrants may continue to pursue investments that fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. With the repeal of PUHCA, the Registrants are free to make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions that were formerly not permitted under PUHCA and that might present more risk than the types of investments and mergers and acquisitions that were permitted under PUHCA. However, with the repeal of PUHCA, it is possible that FERC or the state public utility commissions may impose certain other restrictions on the investments that the Registrants may make. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 