Item 1A. Risk Factors Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks that may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Changes in economic conditions could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by changes in economic conditions, including finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value. Recent negative developments in the financial industry and U.S. and global credit markets may affect our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 in the subprime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets generally and the expectation of a general economic downturn beginning in 2008. Commercial as well as consumer loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new Federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively affect our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely affect our financial performance. Our Southern California business focus and economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. The Bank’s operations are located primarily in Los Angeles and Orange counties. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the Bank’s market area, or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations. Our concentrations in commercial real estate loans located primarily in Southern California could have adverse effects on credit quality. Approximately 30.7 percent of the Bank’s loan portfolio consists of commercial real estate and construction loans, primarily in Southern California. Because of this concentration, a deterioration of the Southern California commercial real estate market could have adverse consequences for the Bank. Among the factors that could contribute to such a decline are general economic conditions in Southern California, interest rates and local market construction and sales activity. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. Our ability to increase our asset base depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful. We must manage our funding resources to enable us to meet our ongoing operations costs and our deposit and borrowing obligations as they come due. Liquidity is essential to our business and any inability to raise funds could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Sources of funds to meet our operating needs and obligations include deposits; interest and 12 fee income on loans and other products and services; earnings on our investment securities portfolio; revenue from the sale or securitization of loans; new capital infusions and borrowings, such as from the Federal Home Loan Banks. Adverse regulatory developments or a decline in our financial condition or a decline in financial market conditions generally, such as the recent turmoil faced by depository financial institutions in the domestic and worldwide credit markets, could have a significant impact on our ability to meet our liquidity needs, including our ability to attract deposits in an increasingly competitive environment. We may not be able to pay dividends in the future. A substantial source of Hanmi Financial’s income from which we pay Hanmi Financial obligations and distribute dividends to our stockholders is from the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. As a result of our net loss for 2007 after the goodwill impairment charge and the increased provision for credit losses, the Bank must obtain the prior approval of the DFI and the FRB in order to pay dividends to Hanmi Financial. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our outstanding common stock. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for a further discussion of restrictions on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Hanmi Financial. Our operations may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by Federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We believe that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future and will be sufficient to offset any problem assets. However, should our asset quality erode and require significant additional provision, resulting in consistent net operating losses at the Bank, our capital levels will decline and we will need to raise capital. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short-term impact of the implementation Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive Federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. Further, Federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, in making loans and attracting and retaining employees. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may differ depending upon the nature and level of competition. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As described herein, the Bank substantially increased its provision for credit losses in 2007, as compared to 2006 and 2005, as a result of increases in historical loss factors, increased charge-offs and migration of more loans into more adverse risk categories. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage our recent and possible future 13 growth. Future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Our stock price can be volatile due to many factors. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, in addition to those described above, including: • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; • new technology used, or services offered, by our competitors; • natural disasters, such as earthquakes; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 14 