ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As noted in the introductory section above titled, “Uncertainties Affecting Forward-Looking Statements”, the Company’s financial condition is subject to substantial risks. You should take them into account in evaluating any investment decision. It is not possible to predict or identify all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The following discussion is a summary of what we believe to be our most significant risk factors. These and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements made in this report. No matter how accurate our foresight, how well we evaluate risks, and how effective we are at mitigating them, it is still possible that one of these problems or some other issue could have serious consequences for the Company. See related discussions in this document and our other SEC filings for more details and subsequent disclosures. A court hearing discussed in Item 1 above will be held to consider approval of the Settlement. While the Company expects that the Settlement will be approved, there is no guarantee that will happen. If the Court does not approve the Settlement, the Company and AWI will have to consider their respective positions in light of the Court’s action. If the Settlement with AWI is approved, the Company would receive 98,697 shares of reorganized AWI stock under the Settlement. That stock has traded at values between $35.25 and $56.72 per share from October 2006 through March 30, 2007. The circumstances of AWI will affect the value of those shares, and the Company’s ability to sell those shares at favorable prices will significantly affect our cash balance and total assets. A final federal income tax return for the Company and AWI on a consolidated basis is expected to be filed for 2006 by September 15, 2007. Both the Company and AWI will report substantial tax losses in this tax return. The Company will claim a loss due to the cancellation of its ownership of AWI on October 2, 2006. The amount of the Company’s loss used in the upcoming tax return as an offset to past income in order to generate refunds depends on elections made with the return. Further, the amount of the Company’s loss realized from the cancellation of its ownership of AWI depends on the acceptance by the Internal Revenue Service of the calculated amount of the Company’s worthless stock deduction. Some portion of the Company’s worthless stock loss may be used as a carry back against taxable income in prior years, with the remainder, if any, to be applied to future tax years. The Company’s ability to use the balance of any tax loss carry forward is subject to limitations that may be applicable for federal income tax purposes in the event of certain changes in ownership of the Company, and to the Company’s ability to generate future taxable income. There is no assurance such a limiting change in ownership has not and will not occur. Further, since October 2, 2006, the Company has conducted no business and has had no operations or employees, so there is no assurance that there will be significant future taxable income. 