Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Because substantially most of our current sales are dependent on two specific product lines, factors that adversely affect the pricing and demand for these product lines could substantially reduce our sales. We are currently dependent on two process control product lines. We expect revenues from these product lines to continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for at least the next 12 months. As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, these product lines, such as competition and technological change, could significantly reduce our sales. The markets we target are highly cyclical and it is difficult to predict the length and strength of any downturn or expansion period. The semiconductor capital equipment market and industries, which are highly cyclical, experienced a steep upturn in 2010, after a significant decline in sales in 2008 and 2009. According to Gartner, Inc., a market research company, the forecast for year 2012 (as of March 2012), predicts a 9.8% decrease in wafer fab equipment (WFE) spending. Although we rely on market research companies, we cannot predict the length and strength of the downturns or expansions. Our inability to significantly reduce spending during a protracted slowdown in the semiconductor industry could reduce our prospects of achieving continued profitability. Historically, we have derived all of our revenues, and we expect to continue to derive practically all of our revenues, from sales of our products and related services to the semiconductor industry. Our business depends in large part upon capital expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated demand for semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has experienced severe and protracted cyclical downturns and upturns. Specifically, during 2010, the semiconductor industry experienced a steep upturn of over 100%, which followed a severe downturn in 2008 and 2009. During cyclical downturns, as those we have experienced in the past and are likely to experience in the future, material reductions in the demand for the type of capital equipment and process technology that we offer may result in a decline in our sales. In addition, our ability to significantly reduce expenses in response to any downturn or slowdown in the rate of capital investment by manufacturers in these industries may be limited because of: Ÿ our continuing need to invest in research and development; Ÿ our continuing need to market our new products to new and existing customers; and Ÿ our extensive ongoing customer service and support requirements worldwide. As a result, we may have difficulty achieving continued profitability. 2 If we do not respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological change, our ability to attract and retain customers could be diminished, which would have an adverse affect on our sales and ability to remain competitive. The semiconductor manufacturing industry is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive and generate sales revenue will depend in part upon our ability to develop new and enhanced systems at competitive prices in a timely and cost-effective manner and to accurately predict technology transitions. Because new product development commitments must be made well in advance of sales, new product decisions must anticipate the future demand for products. If we fail to correctly anticipate future demand for products, our sales and competitive position will suffer. In addition, the development of new measurement technologies, new product introductions or enhancements by our competitors could cause a decline in our sales or loss of market acceptance of our existing products. We depend on OEM suppliers for sales of our integrated metrology systems, and the loss of our OEM suppliers as customers or as business partners could harm our business. We believe that sales of integrated metrology systems will continue to be an important source of our revenues. Sales of our integrated metrology systems depend upon the ability of OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) to sell semiconductor equipment products that are able to include our metrology systems as components. If our OEMs are unable to sell such products, or if they choose to focus their attention on products that do not integrate our systems, our business could suffer. If we were to lose our OEMs as customers or as business partners for any reason, our inability to realize sales from integrated metrology systems could harm our business. We may not be able to develop or market new products, which could slow or prevent our growth. If any of our systems fail to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, we cannot ship them until such time as they have met such specifications. If we experience significant delays or are unable to ship our products to our customers as a result of our internal processes or for any other reason, our business and reputation may be adversely affected. Our products are complex and require technical expertise to design and manufacture. Various problems occasionally arise during the manufacturing process that may cause delays and/or impair product quality. We actively monitor our manufacturing processes to ensure that our products meet our internal quality specifications. Any significant delays stemming from the failure of our products to meet or exceed our internal quality specifications, or for any other reasons, would delay our shipments. Shipment delays could be harmful to our business, revenues and reputation in the industry. We are exposed to cyber security risks that, if materialized, may affect our business and operations. Our global operations are linked by information systems, including telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, network communications, email and various computer hardware and software applications. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our tools and servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems and tools located at customer sites, or could be subject to system failures or malfunctions for other reasons. System failures or malfunctioning could disrupt our operations and our ability to timely and accurately process and report key components of our financial results. We may incorporate open source technology in some of our software and products, which may expose us to liability and have a material impact on our product development and sales Some of our software and products may utilize open source technologies. These technologies may be subject to certain open source licenses, including but not limited to the General Public License, which, when used or integrated in particular manners, impose certain requirements on the subsequent use of such technologies, and pose a potential risk to proprietary nature of products. In the event that we have or will in the future, use or integrate software that is subject to such open source licenses into or in connection with our products in such ways that will trigger certain requirements of these open source licenses, we may (i) be required to include certain notices and abide by other requirements in the absence of which we may be found in breach of the copyrights owned by the creators of such open source technologies; and/or (ii) be required to disclose our own source code or parts thereof to the public, which could enable our competitors to eliminate some or any technological advantage that our products may have over theirs. Any such requirement to disclose our source code or other confidential information related to our products, and the failure to abide by license requirement resulting in copyright infringement, could materially adversely affect our competitive position and impact our business results of operations and financial condition. New product lines that we may introduce in the future may contain defects, which will require us to allocate time and financial resources to correct. Our new product lines may contain defects when first introduced. If there are defects, we will need to divert the attention of our personnel from our ongoing product development efforts to address the detection and correction of the defects. In the past, no liability claims have been filed against us for damages related to product defects, and we have not experienced any material delays as a result of product defects. However, we cannot provide assurances that we will not incur these costs or liabilities or experience these lags or delays in the future. Moreover, the occurrence of such defects, whether caused by our products or the products of another vendor, may result in significant customer relations problems and adversely affect our reputation and may impair the market acceptance of our products. 3 We have historically generated losses and may incur future losses. Since our inception in 1993, we have had several years of losses and only three profitable years. We may incur a net loss in future years. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $8.5 million. We plan to increase our aggregate operating expenses in 2012 relative to 2011. However, our ability to generate profits is dependent mainly on our ability to increase sales. In the future, our sales may not grow and we may not achieve profitability. Our dependence on a single manufacturing facility magnifies the risk of an interruption in our production capabilities. We have only one manufacturing facility, which is located in Ness-Ziona, Israel. Although we adopted a disaster recovery plan, any event affecting this site, including natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. Because shipment dates may be changed and customers may cancel or delay orders with little or no penalty, our backlog may not be a reliable indicator of actual sales. We schedule production of our systems based upon order backlog and customer forecasts. We include in backlog only those orders to which the customer has assigned a purchase order number and for which delivery has been specified. In general, because shipment dates may be changed and customers may cancel or delay orders with little or no penalty, our backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding period. We experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely impact our share price. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past. This trend may continue. A principal reason is that we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of a relatively small number of systems to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, our revenues and results of operations for any given quarter may decrease due to factors relating to the timing of orders, the timing of shipments of systems, and the timing of recognizing these revenues. Furthermore, our quarterly results are affected by the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor capital equipment market and industries. We also have a limited ability to predict revenues for future quarterly periods and, as a result, face risks of revenue shortfalls. If the number of systems we actually ship, and thus the amount of revenues we are able to record in any particular quarter, is below our expectations, the adverse effect may be magnified by our inability to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for the revenue shortfall. We depend on a small number of large customers, and the loss of one or more of them would lower our revenues. Like our peers serving the semiconductor market, our customer base is highly concentrated among a limited number of large customers, primarily because the semiconductor industry is dominated by a small number of large companies. We anticipate that our revenues will continue to depend on a limited number of major customers, although the companies considered to be our major customers and the percentage of our revenue represented by each major customer may vary from period to period. The loss of any one of our major customers would adversely affect our sales and revenues. Furthermore, if any of our customers become insolvent or have difficulties meeting their financial obligations to us for any reason, we may suffer losses. 4 We operate in an extremely competitive market, and if we fail to compete effectively, our revenues and market share will decline. Although the market for process control systems used in semiconductor manufacturing is currently concentrated and characterized by relatively few participants, the semiconductor capital equipment industry is intensely competitive. We compete mainly with Nanometrics, Inc., Rudolph Technologies, Inc., and KLA-Tencor Corp. which manufacture and sell integrated and/or stand-alone process control systems. In addition, we compete with original semiconductor equipment manufacturers, such as Tokyo Electron Ltd., which manufactures integrated metrology products and with original semiconductor equipment manufacturers, such as Applied Materials, Inc., which develop in-situ sensors and products. Established companies, both domestic and foreign, compete with our product lines, and new competitors enter our market from time to time. Some of our competitors have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. If a particular customer selects a competitor’s capital equipment, we expect to experience difficulty in selling to that customer for a significant period of time. A substantial investment is required by customers to evaluate, test, select and integrate capital equipment into a production line. As a result, once a manufacturer has selected a particular vendor’s capital equipment, we believe that the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application and frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements with the same vendor. Accordingly, unless our systems offer performance or cost advantages that outweigh a customer’s expense of switching to our systems, it will be difficult for us to achieve significant sales from that customer once it has selected another vendor’s system for an application. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside of our control, including: Ÿ the contribution of our equipment to the customers’ productivity; Ÿ our product quality and performance; Ÿ our global technical service and support; Ÿ the return on investment (ROI) of our equipment and its cost of ownership; Ÿ the breadth of our product line; Ÿ our success in developing and marketing new products; and Ÿ the extendibility of our products. If we fail to compete in a timely and cost-effective manner against current or future competitors, our revenues and market share will decline. The ongoing consolidation in our industry may harm us if our competitors are able to offer a broader range of products and greater customer support than we can offer. We believe that the semiconductor capital equipment market is undergoing consolidation. A number of capital equipment suppliers have been acquired by larger equipment manufacturers. For example, in 2005 Rudolph Technologies, Inc. acquired August Technologies, Inc., in 2006 Nanometrics acquired Soluris, Inc. and Accent Technologies, Inc., in 2007 KLA-Tencor Corp. acquired Therma-Wave, Inc. and Nanometrics acquired Tevet Ltd., and in 2011 Nanometrics acquired Nanda Technologies. We believe that similar acquisitions and business combinations involving our competitors and customers may occur in the future. These acquisitions could adversely impact our competitive position by enabling our competitors and potential competitors to expand their product offerings and customer service, which could provide them an advantage in meeting customers’ needs, particularly with those customers that seek to consolidate their capital equipment requirements with a smaller number of vendors. The greater resources, including financial, marketing, intellectual property and support resources, of competitors involved in these acquisitions could allow them to accelerate the development and commercialization of new competitive products and the marketing of existing competitive products to their larger installed bases. Accordingly, such business combinations and acquisitions by competitors or customers could jeopardize our competitive position. We may not be successful in our efforts to identify, complete and integrate future acquisitions, which could disrupt our current business activities and adversely affect our results of operations or future growth. Any future acquisitions may involve many risks, including the risks of: Ÿ diverting management’s attention and other resources from our ongoing business concerns; Ÿ entering markets in which we have no direct prior experience; Ÿ improperly evaluating new services, products and markets; Ÿ being unable to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; Ÿ being unable to integrate new technologies or personnel; Ÿ incurring the expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities; and Ÿ the departure of key management and employees. 5 If we are unable to successfully complete future acquisitions or to effectively integrate any future acquisitions, our ability to grow our business or to operate our business effectively could be reduced, and our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. Even if we are successful in completing acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of the acquired business without encountering difficulty regarding different business strategies with respect to marketing and integration of personnel with disparate business backgrounds and corporate cultures. A couple of our major customers have no cancellation fee with regard to cancellation of orders, and we have been facing difficulties to collect cancellation fees from another customer. Our supply agreements with some of our largest customers do not include cancellation fee provisions with regard to cancellation of these customer’s orders. In addition, during the recent slowdown in the semiconductors industry, another customer cancelled its orders and we were unable to collect cancelation fees from that customer. Due to this reason, our ability to rely on our backlog for future forecasting and planning is limited, which in turn may hamper our ability to forecast our financial results. Some of our contracts and arrangements potentially subject us to the risk of significant or non-limited liability. We produce highly complex optical and electronic components and, accordingly, there is a risk that defects may occur in any of our products. Such defects can give rise to significant costs, including expenses relating to recalling products, replacing defective items, writing down defective inventory and loss of potential sales. In addition, the occurrence of such defects may give rise to product liability and warranty claims, including liability for damages caused by such defects. In our commercial relationship with customers, we attempt to negotiate waivers of consequential damages arising from damages for loss of use, loss of product, loss of revenue and loss of profit caused by our products. Similarly, with respect to our commercial relationship with subcontractors and suppliers, we attempt to negotiate arrangements which do not include a limitation of liabilities and limitation of consequential damages. However, some contracts and arrangements we are bound by expose us to product liability claims resulting in personal injury or death, up to an unlimited amount, and the incurrence of the risk of material penalties for consequential or liquidated damages. Additionally, under such contracts and arrangements, we may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused the damage in question, and such claims could result in significant costs and expenses relating to attorneys’ fees and damages. Although we have not incurred material penalties for consequential or liquidated damages during the past, we may incur such penalties in the future. Such penalties for consequential or liquidated damages may be significant and could negatively affect our financial condition or results of operations. Because of our small size, we depend on a small number of employees who possess both executive and technical expertise, and the loss of any of these key employees would hurt our ability to implement our strategy and to compete effectively. Because of our small size and our reliance on employees with both executive and advanced technical skills, our success depends significantly upon the continued contributions of our officers and key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise, which is in high demand among our competitors, and the loss of any of these individuals could cause our business to suffer. We do not maintain life insurance policies for our officers and directors. Our lengthy sales cycle increases our exposure to customer delays in orders, which may result in obsolete inventory and volatile quarterly revenues. Sales of our systems depend, in significant part, upon our customers adding new manufacturing capacity or expanding existing manufacturing capacity, both of which involve a significant capital commitment. We may experience delays in finalizing sales following initial system qualification while a customer evaluates and approves an initial purchase of our systems. In general, for new customers or applications, our normal sales cycle takes between six to 12 months to complete. During this time, we may expend substantial funds and management effort, but fail to make any sales. Lengthy sales cycles subject us to a number of significant risks, including inventory obsolescence and fluctuations in operating results, over which we have limited control. 6 Because of the technical nature of our business, our intellectual property is extremely important to our business, and our inability to protect our intellectual property would harm our competitive position. As of March 1, 2012, we have been granted 95 U.S. patents and have 19 U.S. patent applications pending including US provisional patent applications. In addition, we have been granted approximately 46 non-U.S. patents and have 30 non-U.S. patent applications pending. We cannot assure that: Ÿ pending patent applications will be approved; Ÿ any patents will be broad enough to protect our technology, will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged or invalidated by third parties; or Ÿ the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. We also cannot assure that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate our products or, if patents are issued to us, design around these patents. Furthermore, because patents may afford less protection under foreign law than is available under U.S. law, we cannot assure that any foreign patents issued to us will adequately protect our proprietary rights. In addition to patent protection, we also rely upon trade secret protection, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other intellectual property protection methods to protect our confidential and proprietary information. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that others will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our technology. Furthermore, we may be required to institute legal proceedings to protect our intellectual property. If such legal proceedings are resolved adversely to us, our competitive position and/or results of operations could be harmed. For additional information on our intellectual property, see “Item 4B – Intellectual Property” in this annual report on Form 20-F. There has been significant litigation involving intellectual property rights in the semiconductor and related industries, and similar litigation involving Nova could force us to divert resources to defend against such litigation or deter our customers from purchasing our systems. We have been, and may in the future be, notified of allegations that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by others. In addition, we may be required to commence legal proceedings against third parties, which may be infringing our intellectual property, in order to defend our intellectual property. In the future, protracted litigation and expense may be incurred to defend ourselves against alleged infringement of third party rights or to defend our intellectual property against infringement by third parties. Adverse determinations in that type of litigation could: Ÿ result in our loss of proprietary rights; Ÿ subject us to significant liabilities, including treble damages in some instances; Ÿ require us to seek licenses from third parties, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or Ÿ prevent us from selling our products. Any litigation of this type, even if we are ultimately successful, could result in substantial cost and diversion of time and effort by our management, which by itself could have a negative impact on our profit margin, available funds, competitive position and ability to develop and market new and existing products. For additional information on our intellectual property, see “Item 4B – Intellectual Property” in this annual report on Form 20-F. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier. Any disruption or termination of these supply channels may adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products and to deliver them to our customers. We purchase components, subassemblies and services from a limited number of suppliers and occasionally from a single source. Disruption or termination of these sources could occur (due to several factors, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquake, energy shortages, flooding or other natural disasters), and these disruptions could have at least a temporary adverse effect on our operations. Although we generally maintain an inventory of critical components used in the manufacture and assembly of our systems, such supplies may not be sufficient to avoid potential delays that could have an adverse effect on our business. 7 To date, we have not experienced any material disruption or termination of our supply sources. However, on March 11, 2011, an earthquake followed by a tsunami devastated the north-east coast of Japan, causing thousands of deaths and extensive damage, as well as a potential nuclear disaster. Although our direct suppliers in Japan reported that damage to their physical assets was not significant on a consolidated basis and therefore we have no evidence that continuous supply will be interrupted, the damages caused to Japan’s energy supplies, local infrastructure and distribution channels could potentially adversely affect us in the future. In addition, the 2011 floods in Thailand disrupted hard drive production by companies with factories in Thailand, including Seagate, Toshiba and Western Digital. As a results, Intel Corporation has cut its revenue forecast for the fourth quarter of 2011 by about 7%, saying that floods in Thailand that have constrained hard drive production will affect PC sales. Although we were not directly impacted by these specific cases, other cases in the future may impact our business. A prolonged inability on our part to obtain components included in our systems on a cost-effective basis could adversely impact our ability to deliver products on a timely basis, which could harm our sales and customer relationships. We are dependent on international sales, which expose us to foreign political and economic risks that could impede our plans for expansion and growth. Our principal customers are located in Taiwan, South Korea, China, the United States, Germany, Japan and Singapore, and we produce our products in Israel. International operations expose us to a variety of risks that could seriously impact our financial condition and impede our growth. For instance, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and import and export license requirements could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in the countries adopting or changing those restrictions, tariffs or requirements. This could reduce our sales by a material amount. We may be affected by instability in the global economy, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil. Instability in the global credit markets, including the recent European economic and financial turmoil related to sovereign debt issues in certain countries, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions, such as changes in energy costs, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. The world has recently experienced a global macroeconomic downturn, and if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales in Asia, our sales could be hurt by the instability of Asian economies. A number of Asian countries have experienced political and economic instability. For instance, Taiwan and China have had a number of disputes, as have North and South Korea, and Japan has for a number of years experienced significant economic instability. Additionally, the Asia-Pacific region is susceptible to the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, cyclones, tsunamis and flooding. We have a subsidiary in Taiwan and we have significant customers in Japan and South Korea as well as in China. An outbreak of hostilities or other political upheaval, economic downturns or the occurrence of a natural disaster in these or other Asian countries would likely harm the operations of our customers in these countries, causing our sales to suffer. A large number of our ordinary shares continue to be owned by a relatively small number of shareholders, whose future sales of our shares, if substantial, may depress our share price. If our principal shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, the market price of our ordinary shares may fall. As of March 1, 2012, we had 26,549,142 ordinary shares outstanding. Based on reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which we also refer to herein as the Commission or SEC, information provided to us by our transfer agent and information provided by certain shareholders, our largest shareholder held approximately 8.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares as of March 1, 2012. 8 Certain shareholders may control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors. To the best of our knowledge, approximately 15% of our outstanding ordinary shares are cumulatively held by two of our shareholders. As a result, and although we are currently not aware of any voting agreement between such shareholders, if these shareholders voted together or in the same manner, they would have the ability to control the outcome of corporate actions requiring an ordinary majority vote of shareholders as set in the Company’s Amended and Restated Articles of Association. Even if these two shareholders do not vote together, each one of them may have the ability to influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring the vote of shareholders as set in the Company’s Amended and Restated Articles of Association. For additional information on our major shareholders, see “Item 7A – Major shareholders” in this annual report on Form 20-F. The market price of our ordinary shares may be affected by a limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. In the past there has been a limited public market for our ordinary shares and there can be no assurance that an active trading market for our ordinary shares will continue. An absence of an active trading market could adversely affect our shareholders’ ability to sell our ordinary shares in short time periods. Our ordinary shares have experienced, and are likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares without regard to our operating performance. We manage our available cash through various bank institutions and invest large portions of our cash reserves in bank deposits. A bankruptcy of one of the banks in which or through which we hold or invest our cash reserves, might prevent us to access that cash for an uncertain period of time. We manage our available cash through various bank institutions and invest large portions of our cash reserves in bank deposits. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 96% of our cash reserves were invested in Israeli based bank institutions, and approximately 4% of our cash was invested in or through U.S. based bank institutions. A bankruptcy of one of the banks in which we hold our cash reserves or through which we invest our cash reserves, might prevent us to access that cash for an uncertain period of time. We may fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 imposes certain duties on us and our executives and directors. Our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404, which started in connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, have resulted in increased general and administrative expense and a diversion of management time and attention, and we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires (i) management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and (ii) an attestation report issued by an independent registered public accounting firm on our internal control over financial reporting, in connection with the filing of our Annual Report on Form 20-F for each fiscal year. We have documented and tested our internal control systems and procedures in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. While our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel may adversely affect our growth and revenues. Our principal offices and manufacturing facilities and many of our suppliers are located in Israel. Although most of our sales are currently being made outside Israel, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. 9 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its Arab neighbors. In July 2006, there have been extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon and to a lesser extent in the Gaza Strip. Since June 2007, the Hamas militant group has taken over the Gaza Strip from the Palestinian Authority, and the hostilities along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip have increased, escalating to a wide scale attack by Israel in December 2008, in retaliation to rocket attacks into southern Israel. Moreover, since December 2010, there has been a wave of protests and civil resistance demonstrations in several countries in the Middle East and North Africa, including Egypt and Syria, which share a border with Israel. The demonstrations and acts of civil resistance in Egypt led to the resignation of the former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak and to extensive revisions in the Egyptian governmental structure. It is not clear how this revolutionary wave, also known as the Arab Spring, will develop and how it will affect the political and security situation in the Middle East. It is also not clear how it will affect Israel and its relationship with its Arab neighbors. In addition, it is widely believed that Iran, which has previously threatened to attack Israel, has been stepping up its efforts to achieve nuclear capability. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. The tension between Israel and Iran may escalate in the future and turn violent, which could affect the Israeli economy generally and us in particular. Moreover, the resumption of hostilities in the region, and the on-going tension in the region, have a negative effect on the stability of the region which might have a negative effect on our business and harm our growth and revenues. For further detail see “Item 4B — Political and economic conditions in Israel” in this annual report on Form 20-F. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform up to 84 days of military reserve service on a three year basis until the age of 40 for soldiers and until the age of 45 for officers. This time-period may be extended by the Military Chief of the General Staff and the approval of the Minister of Defense or by a directive of the Minister of Defense in the event of a declared national emergency. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service. To date, our operations have not been materially disrupted as a result of these military service obligations. Any disruption in our operations due to such obligations would adversely affect our ability to produce and market our existing products and to develop and market future products. Provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Association and Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Nova, which could prevent a change of control and negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. See Item 10.B, “Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association.” for a more detailed discussion regarding some anti-takeover effects of Israeli law. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of Nova, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Association and by the Israeli Companies Law, 5759-1999 (the “Companies Law”). These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, pursuant to the Companies Law each shareholder of an Israeli company has to act in good faith in exercising his or her rights and fulfilling his or her obligations toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders and class meetings, on amendments to a company’s articles of association, increases in a company’s authorized share capital, mergers, and transactions requiring shareholders’ approval under the Companies Law. In addition, a controlling shareholder of an Israeli company or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholder vote or who has the power to appoint or prevent the appointment of a director or officer in the company, or has other powers toward the company has a duty of fairness toward the company. However, Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness. Because Israeli corporate law has undergone extensive revision in recent years, there is little case law available to assist in understanding the implications of these provisions that govern shareholder behavior. 10 Because most of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our expenses is incurred in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and mainly New Israeli Shekels, our profit margin may be seriously harmed by currency fluctuations. We generate most of our revenues in U.S. dollars, but incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars, and mainly New Israeli Shekels, commonly referred to as NIS. As a result, we are exposed to risk of devaluation of the U.S. dollar in relation to the NIS and other currencies. In that event, the dollar cost of our operations in countries other than the U.S. will increase and our dollar measured results of operations will be adversely affected. During 2011, the U.S. dollar appreciated against the NIS by 7.6%, after appreciating by approximately 1.7% in the previous three years. We cannot predict the future trends in the rate of devaluation or revaluation of the U.S. dollar against the NIS, and our operations also could be adversely affected if we are unable to hedge against currency fluctuations in the future. We participate in government programs under which we receive tax and other benefits. These programs impose restrictions on our ability to use the technologies developed under these programs. In addition, the reduction or termination of these programs would increase our costs. We receive grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor for research and development programs that meet specified criteria. We are also eligible to receive tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as “approved enterprises”. To maintain our eligibility for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including paying royalties related to grants received and making specified investments in fixed assets. Some of these programs also restrict our ability to manufacture particular products and transfer particular technology, which was developed as part of the “approved enterprises” outside of Israel, by requiring approval of the research and development committee nominated by the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor under applicable law. Such approval may be given only if the recipient abides by all the provisions of the law and related regulations. Approval to manufacture products outside of Israel or consent to the transfer of technology, if requested, might not be granted. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the benefits received could be cancelled. We could also be required to pay increased taxes or refund any benefits previously received, adjusted for inflation and interest. In each of the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded an aggregate of $2.2 million, in grants under Israeli government programs. As of December 31, 2011, our contingent liability to the Office of the Chief Scientist for grants received was approximately $17.5 million. (See also Note 7A to our consolidated financial statements contained elsewhere in this report). From time to time, we submit requests for new grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist and for expansion of our approved enterprise programs. These requests might not be approved. Also, the Israeli government may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. The termination or reduction of these grants or tax benefits could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we increase our activities outside Israel due to, for example, future acquisitions, our increased activities generally will not be eligible for inclusion in Israeli tax benefit programs. Accordingly, our effective corporate tax rate could increase significantly in the future. Any shareholder with a cause of action against us as a result of buying, selling or holding our ordinary shares may have difficulty asserting a claim under U.S. securities laws or enforcing a U.S. judgment against us or our officers, directors or Israeli auditors. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel, and we maintain most of our operations in Israel. Most of our officers and directors as well as our Israeli auditors reside outside of the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, if you wish to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us, or our officers, directors and auditors, you will probably have to file a claim in an Israeli court. Additionally, you might not be able to bring civil actions under U.S. securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. We have been advised by our Israeli counsel that Israeli courts generally enforce a final executory judgment of a U.S. court for liquidated amounts in civil matters after a hearing in Israel. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. However, payment in the local currency of the country where the foreign judgment was given shall be acceptable, subject to applicable foreign currency restrictions. Our shares are listed for trade on more than one stock exchange, and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. This may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on these markets in different currencies, U.S. dollars on The NASDAQ Global Market and New Israeli Shekels on the TASE. These markets have different opening times and close on different days. Different trading times and differences in exchange rates, among other factors, may result in our shares being traded at a price differential on these two markets. In addition, market influences in one market may influence the price at which our shares are traded on the other. 11 We may be classified as a “passive foreign investment company” for U.S. income tax purposes, which could have significant and adverse tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income consists of specified types of passive income, or, on average, at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company (a “PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Classification of Nova as a PFIC could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including having gain realized on the sale or other disposition of our shares being treated as ordinary income as opposed to capital gain income, and computing tax liability on that gain, as well as on dividends and other distributions, as if the income had been earned ratably over each day in the U.S. holder’s holding period for the shares. In addition, an interest charge will be imposed on the amount of the tax allocated to these taxable years. It may be possible for U.S. holders of common shares to mitigate certain of these consequences by making an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund” under Section 1295 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) or a “mark-to-market election” under Section 1296 of the Code. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. We believe that in 2011 we were not a PFIC. Nonetheless, because the determination of whether we are, or will be, a PFIC for a taxable year depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to various interpretations, there is a risk that we were a PFIC in 2011. Absent one of the elections described above, if we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds our ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC regardless of whether we cease to meet the PFIC tests in one or more subsequent years. Currently we expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2012. However, PFIC status is determined based on our assets and income over the course of each taxable year, and is dependent on a number of factors, including the value of a corporation’s assets, the trading price of our ordinary shares and the amount and type of its gross income. Therefore, there can be no assurances that we will not become a PFIC for the current fiscal year ending on December 31, 2012, or any future year, or that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge any determination made by us concerning our PFIC. For a discussion on how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “U.S. Taxation – Passive Foreign Investment Companies.” 