ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations are subject to many risks that could adversely impact future financial condition and performance and thus, the market value of our common stock. The risk factors applicable to us are the following: Fluctuations in interest rates may affect profitability. Our profitability and cash flows depend substantially upon net interest margin. Net interest margin is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments, and rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. The rates described above are highly sensitive to many factors not in our control, such as general economic conditions and policies of regulatory and governmental agencies. Changes in interest rates will affect net interest margin and thus profitability and cash flows. We attempt to manage our interest rate risk but cannot eliminate this risk. Our profitability depends upon and may be affected by local economic conditions. The general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate are a key component to our success. This comes from both the rural Middle Peninsula and urban Richmond markets in which we operate. Changes in the general economic conditions in these markets, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, may influence the rate of growth experienced for both loans and deposits and negatively affect financial condition, performance and profitability. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We compete for deposits, loans and other financial services in markets with numerous other banks, thrifts and financial institutions. There are many financial institutions in these markets that have been in business for many years and are significantly larger, have customer bases well established and have higher lending limits and greater financial resources. Concentrations in loans secured by real estate may increase credit losses, which would have a negative affect on our financial results. Many of the our loans are secured by real estate (both commercial and residential) in our market area. A variety of loans secured by real estate are offered, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. At December 31, 2005, approximately 84.1% of our loans were secured by real estate. A major change in the real estate market, such as deterioration in value of the property, or in the local or national economy, could adversely affect our customer’s ability to pay these loans, which in turn could adversely impact us. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. An essential element of our business is to make loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. Experience in the banking industry indicates that some portion of our loans may only be partially repaid or may never be repaid at all. Loan losses occur for many reasons beyond our control. Although we believe that we maintain our allowance for loan losses at a level adequate to absorb losses in our loan portfolio, estimates of loan losses are subjective and their accuracy may depend on the outcome of future events. We may be required to make significant and unanticipated increases in the allowance for loan and lease losses during future periods, which could materially affect our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Bank regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory authorities may require adjustments to the allowance for loan losses or may require recognition of additional loan losses or 9 Table of Contents charge-offs based upon their own judgment. Any change in the allowance for loan losses or charge-offs required by bank regulatory authorities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our profitability and the value of shareholder’s investments may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels in the financial services area. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, and will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are generally intended to protect depositors and not shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase costs and thus place other financial institutions that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We depend on key personnel for success. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan and lease losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our current executive officers and other key personnel. We have an experienced management team that the Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing our operations. However, losses of or changes in our current executive officers or other key personnel and their responsibilities may disrupt our business and could adversely affect financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current executive officers or other key personnel. If additional capital were needed in the future to continue growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. It is anticipated that we will be able to support this growth through the generation of additional deposits at branch locations as well as investment opportunities. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support continued growth and to maintain capital levels. The ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time. We may not be able to obtain additional capital in the amounts or on terms satisfactory to us. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. Changes in accounting standards could impact reported earnings. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, SEC and other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some instances, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the restatement of prior period financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents 