ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Each of the Registrants operates in a market and regulatory environment that poses significant risks, many of which are beyond the Registrant’s control. Management of each Registrant regularly meets with the Chief Risk Officer and the RMC, which is comprised of officers of the Registrants, to identify and evaluate the most significant risks of the Registrants’ businesses, and the appropriate steps to manage and mitigate those risks. The Chief Risk Officer and senior executives of the Registrants discuss those risks with the risk oversight and audit committees of the Exelon board of directors and the ComEd and PECO boards of directors. In addition, the Exelon board of directors’ generation oversight and energy delivery oversight committees, respectively, evaluate risks related to the generation and energy delivery businesses. The risk factors discussed below may adversely affect one or more of the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows and the market prices of their publicly traded securities. Each of the Registrants has disclosed the known material risks that affect its business at this time. However, there may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed by a Registrant to be material that may adversely affect its performance or financial condition in the future. The Registrants’ most significant risks arise as a consequence of: (1) Generation’s position as a predominantly nuclear generator selling power into competitive wholesale markets, and (2) the role of both ComEd and PECO as operators of electric transmission and distribution systems in two of the largest metropolitan areas in the United States. The Registrants’ major risks fall primarily under the following categories: • Market and Financial Risks. Exelon’s and Generation’s market and financial risks include the risk of price fluctuations in the wholesale power markets. Wholesale power prices are a function of supply and demand, which in turn are driven by factors such as the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas and coal, that drive the wholesale market prices that Generation’s nuclear power plants receive, the rate of expansion of subsidized low carbon generation such as wind energy in the markets in which Generation’s output is sold, and the impacts on energy demand of factors such as weather, economic conditions and implementation of energy efficiency and demand response programs. • Regulatory and Legislative Risks. The Registrants’ regulatory and legislative risks include changes to the laws and regulations that govern competitive markets and utility cost recovery, and that drive environmental policy. In particular, Exelon’s and Generation’s financial performance may be adversely affected by changes that could affect Generation’s ability to sell power into the competitive wholesale power markets at market-based prices. In addition, potential regulation and legislation regarding climate change and renewable portfolio standards could increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities, which could put downward pressure in some markets on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generation’s nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generation’s nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. • Operational Risks. The Registrants’ operational risks include those risks inherent in running the nation’s largest fleet of nuclear power reactors and large electric and gas distribution systems. The safe and effective operation of the nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations as well as the ability to maintain the availability, reliability and safety of its energy delivery systems are fundamental to Exelon’s ability to protect and grow shareholder value. Additionally, the operating costs of ComEd and PECO and the opinions of customers and regulators of ComEd and PECO are affected by those companies’ ability to maintain the reliability and safety of their energy delivery systems. • Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Constellation. As a result of the merger agreement announced with Constellation on April 28, 2011, Exelon is subject to additional risks. 35 Table of Contents A discussion of each of these risks and other risk factors is included below. Market and Financial Risks Generation is exposed to price fluctuations in the wholesale power market, which may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Generation hedges the price risk associated with the generation it owns, or controls, through long-term power purchase agreements. Absent any hedging activity through long-term, fixed price transactions, Generation would be exposed to the risk of rising and falling spot market prices in the markets in which its assets are located, which would mean that Generation’s cash flows would vary accordingly. The wholesale spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Many times, the next unit of electricity will be supplied from generating stations fueled by fossil fuels, and, therefore, the market price of power will reflect the market price of the marginal fuel. As such, changes in the market price of fossil fuels will cause comparable changes to the market price of power. For example, the use of new technologies to recover natural gas from shale deposits has increased natural gas supply and reserves, placing further downward pressure on natural gas prices and could reduce Generation’s revenue, and, therefore, adversely affecting the its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, further delay or elimination of EPA air quality regulations will tend to place downward pressure on market prices and could reduce Generation’s revenue, and, therefore, adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further, in the event that alternative generation resources, such as wind and solar, are mandated through RPS or otherwise subsidized or encouraged through climate legislation or regulation and added to the supply, they could displace a higher marginal cost fossil plant, which could reduce the price at which market participants sell their electricity. This occurrence could then reduce the market price at which all generators in that region, including Generation, would sell their output, and could also result in an impairment of such plants. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity. Worse than expected economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. The result is that higher-cost generating resources do not run as frequently, putting downward pressure on market prices for electricity. The continued sluggish economy in the United States has in fact led to a slow down in the growth of demand for electricity. If this continues, it could adversely affect the Registrants’ ability to pay dividends or fund other discretionary uses of cash such as growth projects. A slow recovery could result in a prolonged depression of or further decline in commodity prices, which could also adversely affect Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. In addition to price fluctuations, Generation is exposed to other risks in the wholesale power market that are beyond its control and may negatively affect its results of operations. (Exelon and Generation) Credit Risk. In the bilateral markets, Generation is exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Generation money, or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from Generation, will not perform their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Generation might be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, Generation is exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTO’s and ISO’s, the purpose of which is to spread such risk across all market participants. Generation is also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. 36 Table of Contents In addition, Generation’s retail sales subject it to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that may be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customer’s account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. Unstable Markets. The wholesale spot markets remain evolving markets that vary from region to region and are still developing practices and procedures. Problems in or the failure of any of these markets could adversely affect Generation’s business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. Market performance and other factors may decrease the value of decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and increase the related obligations, which then could require significant additional funding. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy may adversely affect the value of the investments held within Generation’s NDTs and Exelon’s employee benefit plan trusts. The Registrants have significant obligations in these areas and Exelon and Generation hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which may fall below the Registrants’ projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments may increase the funding requirements to decommission Generation’s nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements associated with Exelon’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, Exelon’s pension and other postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions or changes to Social Security or Medicare eligibility requirements may also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. If future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets or other factors are not recoverable from ComEd and PECO customers, the results of operations and financial positions of ComEd and PECO could be negatively affected. Ultimately, if the Registrants are unable to manage the decommissioning trust funds and benefit plan assets and obligations, their results of operations and financial positions could be negatively affected. Unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets may adversely affect the Registrants’ businesses in several ways, including the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, the Registrants’ ability to meet long-term commitments, Generation’s ability to hedge effectively its generation portfolio, and the competitiveness and liquidity of energy markets; each could adversely affect the Registrants’ financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet their financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from the Registrants’ respective operations. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad can adversely affect the Registrants’ ability to access the capital markets or draw on their respective bank revolving credit facilities. The Registrants’ access to funds under those credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Registrants if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from the Registrants and other borrowers within 37 Table of Contents a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to Generation’s hedging strategy to reduce collateral-posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. In addition, the Registrants have exposure to worldwide financial markets, including Europe. The ongoing European debt crisis has contributed to the instability in global credit markets. Further disruptions in the European markets could reduce or restrict the Registrants’ ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 35%, or $2.7 billion, of the Registrants’ available credit facilities were with European banks. The credit facilities include $7.7 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $6.8 billion was available as of December 31, 2011. There were no borrowings under the Registrants’ credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. See Note 10 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the credit facilities. The strength and depth of competition in competitive energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that may affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to the respective businesses of the Registrants. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts such as the financial swap contract between Generation and ComEd as described further in Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations and cash flows. If any of the Registrants were to experience a downgrade in its credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of its trading counterparties, it would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral under its agreements with counterparties and could experience higher borrowing costs. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation’s business is subject to credit quality standards that may require market participants to post collateral for their obligations. If Generation were to be downgraded or lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating) or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards of trading counterparties, it would be required under its hedging arrangements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. The amount of collateral required to be provided by Generation at any point in time is dependent on a variety of factors, including (1) the notional amount of the applicable hedge, (2) the nature of counterparty and related agreements, and (3) changes in power or other commodity prices. In addition, if Generation were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Generation could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the power generation industry or Generation has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the credit rating agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of Generation. ComEd’s financial swap contract with Generation and its operating agreement with PJM contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating and market prices. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and ComEd were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required under the financial swap contract with Generation to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon 38 Table of Contents its liquidity. Collateral posting by ComEd under the financial swap will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Conversely, collateral requirements under the PJM operating agreement will generally increase as market prices rise and decrease as market prices fall. Given the relationship to market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if ComEd were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. PECO’s operating agreement with PJM and its natural gas procurement contracts contain collateral provisions that are affected by its credit rating. If certain wholesale market conditions exist and PECO were to lose its investment grade credit rating (based on its senior unsecured debt rating), it would be required to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may have a material adverse effect upon its liquidity. PECO’s collateral requirements relating to its natural gas supply contracts are a function of market prices. Collateral posting requirements for PECO with respect to these contracts will generally increase as forward market prices fall and decrease as forward market prices rise. Given the relationship to forward market prices, contract collateral requirements can be volatile. In addition, if PECO were downgraded, it could experience higher borrowing costs as a result of the downgrade. Either or both ComEd and PECO could experience a downgrade in its ratings if any of the credit rating agencies concludes that the level of business or financial risk and overall creditworthiness of the utility industry in general or ComEd or PECO in particular has deteriorated. ComEd or PECO could experience a downgrade if the current regulatory environments in Illinois and Pennsylvania become less predictable by materially lowering returns for utilities in the applicable state or adopting other measures to mitigate higher electricity prices. Additionally, the ratings for ComEd or PECO could be downgraded if its financial results are weakened from current levels due to weaker operating performance or due to a failure to properly manage its capital structure. In addition, changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies could also have a negative impact on the ratings of ComEd or PECO. ComEd and PECO conduct their respective businesses and operate under governance models and other arrangements and procedures intended to assure that ComEd and PECO are treated as separate, independent companies, distinct from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in order to isolate ComEd and PECO from Exelon and other Exelon subsidiaries in the event of financial difficulty at Exelon or another Exelon subsidiary. These measures (commonly referred to as “ringfencing”) may help avoid or limit a downgrade in the credit ratings of ComEd and PECO in the event of a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon. Despite these ringfencing measures, the credit ratings of ComEd or PECO could remain linked, to some degree, to the credit ratings of Exelon. Consequently, a reduction in the credit rating of Exelon could result in a reduction of the credit rating of ComEd or PECO, or both. A reduction in the credit rating of ComEd or PECO could have a material adverse effect on ComEd or PECO, respectively. See Liquidity and Capital Resources—Recent Market Conditions and Security Ratings for further information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on the Registrants’ cash flows. Generation’s financial performance may be negatively affected by price volatility, availability and other risk factors associated with the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuel. (Exelon and Generation) Generation depends on nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil to operate its generating facilities. Nuclear fuel is obtained predominantly through long-term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services and contracted fuel fabrication services. Coal, natural gas and oil are procured for generating plants through annual, short-term and spot-market purchases. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, coal, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions and counterparty default that may negatively affect the results of operations for Generation. 39 Table of Contents Generation’s risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with its commodity trading activities. (Exelon and Generation) Generation’s asset-based power position as well as its power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose Generation to risks of commodity price movements. Generation attempts to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when its policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations may be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, Generation cannot predict the impact that its commodity trading activities and risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position. Generation buys and sells energy and other products in the wholesale markets and enters into financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in Generation’s power generation portfolio. The proportion of hedged positions in its power generation portfolio may cause volatility in Generation’s future results of operations. Generation may not be able to effectively respond to increased demand for energy. (Exelon and Generation) Generation’s financial growth may depend in part on its ability to respond to increased demand for energy. If demand for electricity rises in the future, it may be necessary for the market to increase capacity through the construction of new generating facilities. Development by Generation of new generating facilities would require the commitment of substantial capital resources, including access to the capital markets. The wholesale markets for electricity and certain states’ statutes contemplate that future generation will be built in those markets at the risk of market participants. Thus, the ability of Generation to recover the costs of and to earn an adequate return on any future investment in generating facilities will be dependent on its ability to build, finance and efficiently operate facilities that are competitive in those markets. Additionally, construction of new generating facilities by Generation in markets in which it currently competes would be subject to market concentration tests administered by FERC. If Generation cannot pass the tests administered by FERC, Generation could be limited in how it responds to increased demand for energy. Financial performance and load requirements may be adversely affected if Generation is unable to effectively manage its power portfolio. (Exelon and Generation) A significant portion of Generation’s power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with ComEd, PECO and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, Generation’s output is sold in the wholesale market. To the extent its power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of its customers under the related agreements, Generation must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Generation’s financial results may be negatively affected if it is unable to cost-effectively meet the load requirements of its customers, manage its power portfolio and effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets. 40 Table of Contents Challenges to tax positions taken by the Registrants as well as tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions, could negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) 1999 sale of fossil generating assets. The IRS has challenged Exelon’s 1999 tax position on an involuntary conversion and like-kind exchange transaction. In the third quarter of 2010, Exelon and IRS Appeals reached a nonbinding, preliminary agreement to settle Exelon’s involuntary conversion and CTC positions and for the IRS to withdraw its assertion of a $110 million substantial understatement penalty related to the involuntary conversion position. However, Exelon and IRS Appeals failed to reach a settlement on the like-kind exchange position. Exelon expects to initiate litigation on this matter during 2012. If the IRS is successful in its challenge to the like-kind exchange position, it would accelerate future income tax payments and increase interest expense related to the deferred tax gain that would become currently payable. As of December 31, 2011, Exelon’s potential cash outflow, including tax and interest, could be as much as $860 million, of which $550 million would be paid by ComEd and the remainder by Exelon. If the deferral were successfully challenged by the IRS, Exelon’s results of operations could also be negatively impacted due to increased interest expense of up to $260 million, net of tax, of which $200 million would be recorded at ComEd and the remainder at Exelon. In addition to attempting to impose tax on the like-kind exchange position, the IRS has asserted penalties for a substantial understatement of tax, which could result in an after-tax charge of $86 million to Exelon’s and ComEd’s results of operations should the IRS prevail in asserting the penalties. The timing effects of the final resolution of the like-kind exchange matter are unknown. See Note 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax reserves and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Registrants are required to make judgments in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeals issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that may be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. The Registrants also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards and tax credits. See Notes 1 and 11 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Increases in customer rates and the impact of economic downturns may lead to greater expense for uncollectible customer balances. Additionally, increased rates could lead to decreased volumes delivered. Both of these factors may decrease ComEd’s and PECO’s results from operations and cash flows. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd’s and PECO’s current procurement plans include purchasing power through contracted suppliers and in the spot market. ComEd’s and PECO’s costs of purchased power are charged to customers without a return or profit component. For PECO, purchased natural gas costs are charged to customers with no return or profit component. Purchased power and natural gas prices fluctuate based on their relevant supply and demand. Significantly higher rates related to purchased power and natural gas can result in declines in customer usage, lower electric transmission and distribution revenues and potentially additional uncollectible accounts expense for ComEd and PECO as well as lower gas distribution revenues for PECO. Also, ComEd’s and PECO’s cash flows can be affected by differences between the time period when electricity and natural gas are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers. In addition to increased purchased power charges for ComEd and PECO customers and purchased natural gas costs for PECO customers, the impact of economic downturns on ComEd and PECO’s customers, such as unemployment for residential customers and less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, and the related regulatory limitations 41 Table of Contents on residential service terminations may result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances, which would negatively impact ComEd’s and PECO’s results from operations and cash flows. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for further discussion of the Registrants’ credit risk. The effects of weather may impact the Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. Extreme weather conditions or damage resulting from storms may stress ComEd’s and PECO’s transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs and limiting each company’s ability to meet peak customer demand. These extreme conditions may have detrimental effects on ComEd’s and PECO’s results of operations and cash flows. Generation’s operations are also affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, Generation may require greater resources to meet its contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms may affect the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting Generation’s ability to source or send power to where it is sold. In addition, drought-like conditions limiting water usage can impact Generation’s ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect by causing Generation to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when markets are weak. Certain long-lived assets recorded on the Registrants’ statements of financial position may become impaired, which would result in write-offs of the impaired amounts. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Long-lived assets represent the single largest asset class on the Registrants’ statement of financial position. Specifically, long-lived assets account for 59%, 49%, 58% and 64% of total assets for Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. The Registrants evaluate for impairment the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used whenever indications of impairment exist. Factors such as the business climate, including current energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered when evaluating long-lived assets for impairment. An impairment would require the Registrants to reduce the long-lived asset through a non-cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment, and such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants’ results of operations. Exelon holds certain investments in coal-fired plants in Georgia and Texas subject to long-term leases extending through 2028-2032. On an annual basis, Exelon reviews the estimated residual values of these leased assets to determine whether any indications of impairment exist. In determining the estimate of residual value, the expectation of future market conditions, including commodity prices, is considered. An impairment would require Exelon to reduce the value of its investment in the plants through a non-cash charge to expense. Such an impairment could have a material adverse impact on Exelon’s results of operations. Exelon and ComEd had approximately $2.6 billion of goodwill recorded at December 31, 2011 in connection with the merger between PECO and Unicom Corporation, the former parent company of ComEd. Under GAAP, goodwill remains at its recorded amount unless it is determined to be impaired, which is generally based upon an annual analysis that compares the implied fair value of the goodwill 42 Table of Contents to its carrying value. If an impairment occurs, the amount of the impaired goodwill will be written-off and expensed, reducing equity. The actual timing and amounts of any goodwill impairments will depend on many sensitive, interrelated and uncertain variables. A fully successful IRS challenge to Exelon’s and ComEd’s like-kind exchange income tax position or adverse regulatory actions such as early termination of EIMA in combination with changes in significant assumptions used in estimating ComEd’s fair value (e.g., discount and growth rates, utility sector market performance and transactions, operating and capital expenditure requirements and the fair value of debt) could result in an impairment. Such an impairment would result in a non-cash charge to expense, which could have a material impact on Exelon’s and ComEd’s operating results. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Notes 5 and 7 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on long-lived asset and goodwill impairments. The Registrants’ businesses are capital intensive and the costs of capital projects may be significant. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants’ businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments by Generation in energy generation and by ComEd and PECO in transmission and distribution infrastructure projects. The Registrants’ results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows could be adversely affected if they were unable to effectively manage their capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS for further information regarding the Registrants’ potential future capital expenditures. Exelon and its subsidiaries have guaranteed the performance of third parties, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants have issued certain guarantees of the performance of others, which obligate Exelon or its subsidiaries to perform in the event that the third parties do not perform. In the event of non-performance by the third parties, the Registrants could incur substantial cost to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on the operating results, financial condition, or cash flows of the Registrants. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Due to its significant contractual agreements with ComEd, Generation will be negatively affected in the event of non-performance or change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. (Exelon and Generation) Generation currently provides power under procurement contracts with ComEd for a significant portion of ComEd’s electricity supply requirements. In addition, Generation entered into a financial swap contract with ComEd, effective August 2007, to hedge a portion of ComEd’s electricity supply requirements through May 2013. Consequently, Generation is highly dependent on ComEd’s continued payments under these contracts and would be adversely affected by negative events impacting these contracts, including the non-performance or a significant change in the creditworthiness of ComEd. A default by ComEd under these contracts would have an adverse effect on Generation’s results of operations and financial position. Generation’s business may be negatively affected by competitive electric generation suppliers. (Exelon and Generation) Because retail customers where Generation serves load can switch from their respective energy delivery company to a competitive electric generation supplier for their energy needs, planning to meet Generation’s obligation to provide the supply needed to serve Generation’s share of an electric 43 Table of Contents distribution companies’ default service obligation is more difficult than planning for retail load before the advent of retail competition. Before retail competition, the primary variables affecting projections of load were weather and the economy. With retail competition, another major factor is retail customers switching to or from competitive electric generation suppliers. If fewer of such customers switch from its retail load serving counterparties than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be greater than anticipated, which could, if market prices have increased, increase Generation’s costs (due to its need to go to market to cover its incremental supply obligation) more than the increase in Generation’s revenues. If more customers switch than Generation anticipates, the load that Generation must serve will be lower than anticipated, which could, if market prices have decreased, cause Generation to lose opportunities in the market. Regulatory and Legislative Risks The Registrants’ generation and energy delivery businesses are highly regulated and could be subject to adverse regulatory and legislative actions. Fundamental changes in regulation or legislation could disrupt the Registrants’ business plans and adversely affect their operations and financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Substantially all aspects of the businesses of the Registrants are subject to comprehensive Federal or state regulation and legislation. Further, Exelon’s and Generation’s operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent upon the ability of Generation to sell power at market-based rates, as opposed to cost-based or other similarly regulated rates, and Exelon’s, ComEd’s and PECO’s operating results and cash flows are heavily dependent on the ability of ComEd and PECO to recover their costs for the retail purchase and distribution of power to their customers. In the planning and management of operations, the Registrants must address the effects of regulation on their businesses and changes in the regulatory framework, including initiatives by Federal and state legislatures, RTOs, ratemaking agencies and taxing authorities. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions affecting the Registrants’ businesses would require changes in their business planning models and operations and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Regulatory and legislative developments related to climate change and RPS may also significantly affect Exelon’s and Generation’s results of operations, cash flows and financial positions. Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change through GHG emission reductions, if enacted, could result in increased costs to entities that generate electricity through carbon-emitting fossil fuels, which could increase the market price at which all generators in a region, including Generation, may sell their output, thereby increasing the revenue Generation could realize from its low-carbon nuclear assets. However, regulation or legislation addressing climate change through an RPS could also increase the pace of development of wind energy facilities in the Midwest, which could put downward pressure on wholesale market prices for electricity from Generation’s Midwest nuclear assets, partially offsetting any additional value Exelon and Generation might derive from Generation’s nuclear assets under a carbon constrained regulatory regime that might exist in the future. The Registrants cannot predict when or whether any of these various legislative and regulatory proposals may become law or what their effect will be on the Registrants. Generation may be negatively affected by possible Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions that could affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. (Exelon and Generation) Federal and state legislative and regulatory bodies are facing pressures to address consumer concerns that energy prices in wholesale markets are too high because the competitive model is not working, and, therefore, are facing calls for some form of re-regulation or some other means of 44 Table of Contents reducing wholesale market prices. As the energy markets continue to mature, if the number of wholesale market power participants entering procurement proceedings shrinks, this could also influence how certain regulators and legislators view the effectiveness of these competitive markets. The criticism of restructured electricity markets, which has escalated in recent years as retail rate freezes have expired, is expected to continue. Generation is dependent on robust and competitive wholesale energy markets to achieve its business objectives. Approximately 75% of Generation’s generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long-term contracts, are located in the region encompassed by PJM. Generation’s future results of operations will depend on 1) FERC’s continued adherence to and support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets, such as PJM’s, and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect the competitiveness of the PJM market. Generation could also be adversely affected by state laws designed to reduce wholesale prices artificially below competitive levels, such as the New Jersey Capacity Legislation. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the New Jersey Capacity Legislation. In addition, FERC’s application of its Order 697 and its subsequent revisions could pose a risk that Generation will have difficulty satisfying FERC’s tests for market-based rates. Since Order 697 became final in June 2007, Generation has obtained orders affirming Generation’s authority to sell at market-based rates and none denying that authority. Generation’s most recent submission seeking reauthorization to sell at market-based rates was accepted by FERC on June 22, 2011 for the PJM region. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) was enacted into law on July 21, 2010. Its primary objective is to eliminate from the financial system the systemic risk that Congress believed was in part the cause of the financial crisis that unfolded during the Fall of 2008. Dodd-Frank ushers in a brand new regulatory regime applicable to the over-the-counter (OTC) market for swaps. Generation relies on the OTC swaps markets as part of its program to hedge the price risk associated with its generation portfolio. The significance of the effect on Generation will depend in part on whether it is determined to be a swap dealer or a qualifying end-user through a self-identification process, based on the meaning of those terms established in the final rules. If Generation is deemed a swap dealer, it will be required to register with the CFTC and execute most bilateral OTC derivative transactions through an exchange or central clearinghouse. This requirement could cause Generation to commit substantial additional capital to support the business and to cover increases in its collateral costs associated with margin requirements of the major exchanges such as the NYMEX. Generation would also face increased reporting and record-keeping requirements, would have to abide by CFTC-specified business conduct standards, and adhere to position limits in a potentially broad range of energy commodities. Even if Generation is not deemed a swap dealer, it will still face additional regulatory obligations under Dodd-Frank, including some reporting requirements, clearing some additional transactions that it would otherwise enter into over-the-counter, and having to adhere to position limits. More fundamentally, however, the total burden that the rules could impose on all market participants could cause liquidity in the bilateral OTC swaps market to decreases substantially. As Generation’s hedging program relies heavily on its ability to access the current bilateral OTC swaps market, the new rules could impede Generation’s ability to meet its hedge targets in a cost-effective manner. Generation continues to monitor and participate in the rulemaking process. Generation cannot predict the ultimate outcome that Dodd-Frank will have on its results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 45 Table of Contents Generation’s affiliation with ComEd and PECO, together with the presence of a substantial percentage of Generation’s physical asset base within the ComEd and PECO service territories, could increase Generation’s cost of doing business to the extent future complaints or challenges regarding ComEd and/or PECO retail rates result in settlements or legislative or regulatory requirements funded in part by Generation. (Exelon and Generation) Generation has significant generating resources within the service areas of ComEd and PECO and makes significant sales to each of them. Those facts tend to cause Generation to be directly affected by developments in those markets. Government officials, legislators and advocacy groups are aware of Generation’s affiliation with ComEd and PECO and its sales to each of them. In periods of rising utility rates, particularly when driven by increased costs of energy production and supply, those officials and advocacy groups may question or challenge costs incurred by ComEd or PECO, including transactions between Generation, on the one hand, and ComEd or PECO, on the other hand, regardless of any previous regulatory processes or approvals underlying those transactions. The prospect of such challenges may increase the time, complexity and cost of the associated regulatory proceedings, and the occurrence of such challenges may subject Generation to a level of scrutiny not faced by other unaffiliated competitors in those markets. In addition, government officials and legislators may seek ways to force Generation to contribute to efforts to mitigate potential or actual rate increases, through measures such as generation-based taxes and contributions to rate-relief packages. The Registrants may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The businesses which the Registrants operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Registrants conduct their operations and make capital expenditures. These regulations affect how the Registrants handle air and water emissions and solid waste disposal. Violations of these emission and disposal requirements can subject the Registrants to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, the Registrants are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by the Registrants and of property contaminated by hazardous substances they generate. The Registrants have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance, site remediation and clean-up. Remediation activities associated with MGP operations conducted by predecessor companies are one component of such costs. Also, the Registrants are currently involved in a number of proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future. If application of Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act, which establishes a national requirement for reducing the adverse impacts to aquatic organisms at existing generating stations, requires the retrofitting of cooling water intake structures at Salem or other Exelon power plants, this development could result in material costs of compliance. Pursuant to discussions with the NJDEP regarding the application of Section 316(b) to Oyster Creek, Generation agreed to permanently cease generation operations at Oyster Creek by December 31, 2019, ten years before the expiration of its operating license in 2029. Additionally, Generation is subject to exposure for asbestos-related personal injury liability alleged at certain current and formerly owned generation facilities. Future legislative action could require Generation to make a material contribution to a fund to settle lawsuits for alleged asbestos-related disease and exposure. 46 Table of Contents In some cases, a third party who has acquired assets from a Registrant has assumed the liability the Registrant may otherwise have for environmental matters related to the transferred property. If the transferee fails to discharge the assumed liability, a regulatory authority or injured person could attempt to hold the Registrant responsible, and the Registrant’s remedies against the transferee may be limited by the financial resources of the transferee. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in ComEd’s and PECO’s terms and conditions of service, including their respective rates, are subject to regulatory approval proceedings and/or negotiated settlements that are at times contentious, lengthy and subject to appeal, which lead to uncertainty as to the ultimate result and which may introduce time delays in effectuating rate changes. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) ComEd and PECO are required to engage in regulatory approval proceedings as a part of the process of establishing the terms and rates for their respective services. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including governmental bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns but who have the common objective of limiting rate increases or even reducing rates. The proceedings generally have timelines that may not be limited by statute. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. The potential duration of such proceedings creates a risk that rates ultimately approved by the applicable regulatory body may not be sufficient for ComEd or PECO to recover its costs by the time the rates become effective. Established rates are also subject to subsequent prudency reviews by state regulators, whereby various portions of rates can be adjusted, including recovery mechanisms for costs associated with the procurement of electricity or gas, MGP remediation, smart grid infrastructure, and energy efficiency and demand response programs. In certain instances, ComEd and PECO may agree to negotiated settlements related to various rate matters, customer initiatives or franchise agreements. These settlements are subject to regulatory approval. ComEd and PECO cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of any settlements or the actions by Illinois, Pennsylvania or Federal regulators in establishing rates, including the extent, if any, to which certain costs such as significant capital projects will be recovered or what rates of return will be allowed. Nevertheless, the expectation is that ComEd and PECO will continue to be obligated to deliver electricity to customers in their respective service territories and will also retain significant POLR and default service obligations to provide electricity and natural gas to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose an alternative supplier. The ultimate outcome and timing of regulatory rate proceedings have a significant effect on the ability of ComEd and PECO, as applicable, to recover their costs and could have a material adverse effect on ComEd’s and PECO’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the recently enacted EIMA and appeals in connection with ComEd’s 2007 and 2010 Illinois electric distribution rate cases. Federal or additional state RPS and/or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers, could negatively affect the results of operations and cash flows of ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of renewable and alternate fuel sources, such as wind, solar, biomass and geothermal, could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, especially if timely cost recovery is not allowed. The impact could include increased costs for RECs and purchased power and increased rates for customers. 47 Table of Contents Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs that require the implementation of new technologies, such as smart meters and smart grid, have increased capital expenditures and could significantly impact ComEd and PECO, if timely cost recovery is not allowed. Furthermore, regulated energy consumption reduction targets and declines in customer energy consumption resulting from the implementation of new energy conservation technologies could lead to a decline in the revenues of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. For additional information, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS “Environmental Regulation-Renewable and Alternative Energy Portfolio Standards.” ComEd and PECO are likely to be subject to higher transmission operating costs and investments in the future as a result of PJM’s RTEP and NERC compliance requirements. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Uncertainties exist as to the construction of new transmission facilities, their cost and how those costs will be allocated to transmission system participants and customers. In accordance with a FERC order and related settlement, PJM’s RTEP requires the costs of new transmission facilities to be allocated across the entire PJM footprint for new facilities greater than or equal to 500 kV, and requires costs of new facilities less than 500 kV to be allocated to the beneficiaries of the new facilities. On August 6, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit remanded to FERC its decision related to allocation of new facilities 500 kV and above for further proceedings. ComEd and PECO as transmission owners are subject to NERC compliance requirements. NERC provides guidance to transmission owners regarding assessments of transmission lines. The results of these assessments may require ComEd and PECO to incur incremental capital or operating and maintenance expenditures to ensure their transmission lines meet NERC standards. See Notes 2 and 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the FASB guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation could be material to Exelon, ComEd and PECO. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) As of December 31, 2011, Exelon, ComEd and PECO have concluded that the operations of ComEd and PECO meet the criteria of the authoritative guidance for accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation. If it is concluded in a future period that a separable portion of their businesses no longer meets the criteria, Exelon, ComEd and PECO are required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of their business. That action would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in their Consolidated Balance Sheets and the recognition of a one-time extraordinary item in their Consolidated Statements of Operations. The impact of not meeting the criteria of the authoritative guidance could be material to the financial statements of Exelon, ComEd and PECO. At December 31, 2011, the extraordinary gain could have been as much as $1.8 billion (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of ComEd’s regulatory assets and liabilities. At December 31, 2011, the extraordinary charge could have been as much as $ 610 million (before taxes) as a result of the elimination of PECO’s regulatory assets and liabilities. Exelon would record the same amount of extraordinary gain and charge related to ComEd’s and PECO’s regulatory assets and liabilities, respectively. Further, Exelon would record a charge against OCI (before taxes) of up to $3.0 billion and $32 million for ComEd and PECO, respectively, related to Exelon’s regulatory assets associated with its defined benefit postretirement plans. The impacts and resolution of the above items could lead to an additional impairment of ComEd’s goodwill, which could be significant and at least partially offset the extraordinary gain discussed above. A significant decrease in equity as a result of any changes could limit the ability of ComEd and PECO to pay dividends under Federal and state law and cause significant volatility in future results of operations. See Notes 1, 2 and 7 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for the effects of regulation, regulatory matters and ComEd’s goodwill, respectively. 48 Table of Contents Exelon and Generation may incur material costs of compliance if Federal and/or state regulation or legislation is adopted to address climate change. (Exelon and Generation) Various stakeholders, including legislators and regulators, shareholders and non-governmental organizations, as well as other companies in many business sectors, including utilities, are considering ways to address the effect of GHG emissions on climate change. In 2009, select Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states implemented a model rule, developed via the RGGI, to regulate CO2 emissions from fossil-fired generation. If carbon reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective, Exelon and Generation may incur costs either to limit further the GHG emissions from their operations or to procure emission allowance credits. The nature and extent of environmental regulation may also impact the ability of Exelon and its subsidiaries to meet the GHG emission reduction targets of Exelon 2020. For example, more stringent permitting requirements may preclude the construction of lower-carbon nuclear and gas-fired power plants. Similarly, a Federal RPS could increase the cost of compliance by mandating the purchase or construction of more expensive supply alternatives. For more information regarding climate change, see ITEM 1. BUSINESS “Global Climate Change” and Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Registrants could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, users, owners and operators of the bulk power transmission system, including Generation, ComEd and PECO, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. PECO as operator of a natural gas distribution system is also subject to mandatory reliability standards of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards may subject the Registrants to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. In addition, the ICC and PAPUC impose certain distribution reliability standards on ComEd and PECO, respectively. If the Registrants were found not to be in compliance with the mandatory reliability standards, they could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. The Registrants cannot predict the outcome of the legal proceedings relating to their business activities. An adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial positions and cash flows. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising out of their business operations, the most significant of which are summarized in Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on the Registrants’ results of operations. Operational Risks The Registrants’ employees, contractors, customers and the general public may be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and customers and the general public may be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near operations. As a result, employees, contractors, customers and the general public are at risk for serious injury, including loss of life. Significant risks include nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, pole strikes and electric contact cases. 49 Table of Contents Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events may adversely affect Exelon’s results of operations, its ability to raise capital and its future growth. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Generation’s fleet of nuclear power plants and ComEd’s and PECO’s distribution and transmission infrastructures could be impacted by natural disasters, such as seismic activity, more frequent and more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. An extreme weather event within the Registrants’ service areas can also directly affect their capital assets, causing disruption in service to customers due to downed wires and poles or damage to other operating equipment. An example of such an event was the 9.0 magnitude earthquake and ensuing tsunami experienced by Japan on March 11, 2011, that seriously damaged the nuclear units at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which are operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co. Also, in 2011, the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States experienced a 5.8 magnitude earthquake and flooding associated with hurricane Irene and tropical storm Lee. These events increase the risk to Generation that the NRC or other regulatory or legislative bodies may change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, licensed lives, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological aspects. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for Generation’s continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect the Registrants’ operations and their ability to raise capital. Exelon does not know the impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry in general and on Exelon in particular. As owner-operators of infrastructure facilities, such as nuclear, fossil and hydroelectric generation facilities and electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities, the Registrants face a risk that their operations would be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign may affect their operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also may affect the Registrants’ results of operations and its ability to raise capital. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. The Registrants would be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. Exelon has plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate its generating and transmission and distribution assets could be affected, resulting in decreased service levels and increased costs. Generation’s financial performance may be negatively affected by matters arising from its ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. (Exelon and Generation) Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors, particularly nuclear capacity factors, significantly affect Generation’s results of operations. Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs but produce electricity at low variable costs due to nuclear fuel costs typically being lower than fossil fuel costs. Consequently, to be successful, Generation must consistently operate its nuclear facilities at high capacity factors. Lower capacity factors increase Generation’s operating costs by requiring Generation to produce additional energy from primarily its fossil facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy Generation’s obligations to committed third-party sales, including ComEd and PECO. These sources generally have higher costs than Generation incurs to produce energy from its nuclear stations. 50 Table of Contents Nuclear refueling outages. Refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months and are currently planned to average approximately 26 days in duration for the nuclear plants operated by Generation. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. When refueling outages at wholly and co-owned plants last longer than anticipated or Generation experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease and Generation faces lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and/or lower energy sales. Each 26-day outage, depending on the capacity of the station, will decrease the total nuclear annual capacity factor between 0.3% and 0.5%. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by Generation can affect the efficiency and costs of Generation’s operations. Certain of Generation’s nuclear units have previously had a limited number of fuel performance issues. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and/or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF, and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse Generation for these costs. Through the NRC’s “waste confidence” rule, the NRC has determined that, if necessary, spent fuel generated in any reactor can be stored safely and without significant environmental impacts for at least 60 years beyond the licensed life for operation, which may include the term of a revised or renewed license of that reactor, at its spent fuel storage basin or at either onsite or offsite independent spent fuel storage installations. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF may adversely affect Generation’s ability to decommission fully its nuclear units. Furthermore, under its contract with the DOE, Generation would be required to pay the DOE a one-time SNF storage fee including interest of approximately $1 billion as of December 31, 2011, prior to the first delivery of SNF. Generation currently estimates 2020 to be the earliest date when the DOE will begin accepting SNF, which could be delayed by further regulatory action. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the spent nuclear fuel obligation. License renewals. Generation cannot assure that economics will support the continued operation of the facilities for all or any portion of any renewed license period. If the NRC does not renew the operating licenses for Generation’s nuclear stations or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generation’s results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates, impairment charges and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. In addition, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Should a national policy for the disposal of SNF not be developed, the unavailability of a repository for SNF could become a consideration by the NRC during future nuclear license renewal proceedings, including applications for new licenses. Regulatory risk. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation, may cause the NRC to initiate such actions. 51 Table of Contents As an example, prior to the Fukushima Daiichi accident on March 11, 2011, the NRC had been evaluating seismic risk. After the Fukushima Daiichi accident, the NRC’s focus on seismic risk intensified. As part of the NRC Near-Term Task Force (Task Force) review and evaluation of the Fukushima Daiichi accident, the Task Force recommended that plant operators conduct seismic reevaluations. In January 2012, the NRC released an updated seismic risk model that plant operators must use in performing the seismic reevaluations recommended by the Task Force. These reevaluations could result in the required implementation of additional mitigation strategies or modifications. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—Exelon Corporation, Executive Overview for a more detailed discussion of the Task Force Recommendations. Operational risk. Operations at any of Generation’s nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where Generation has to shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense. Generation may choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, Generation may lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, Generation may not achieve the anticipated results under its series of planned power uprates across its nuclear fleet. For plants operated but not wholly owned by Generation, Generation may also incur liability to the co-owners. For the plant not wholly owned by Generation and operated by PSEG, Salem Units 1 and 2, from which Generation receives its share of the plant’s output, Generation’s results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the co-owner operator and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by Generation could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy, which could significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial position. In addition, closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of generating plants or failure of transmission lines, could effect transmission systems that could adversely affect the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by Generation. Nuclear major incident risk. Although the safety record of nuclear reactors generally has been very good, accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred both in the United States and abroad. The consequences of a major incident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned by Generation or owned by others, may exceed Generation’s resources, including insurance coverage. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by Generation and could have a material adverse effect on Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, owned by others or Generation, may result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy and significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Nuclear insurance. As required by the Price-Anderson Act, Generation carries the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance. The required amount of nuclear liability insurance is $375 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $12.6 billion limit for a single incident. Generation is a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for Generation’s nuclear operations. In recent years, NEIL has made distributions to its members but Generation cannot predict the level of future distributions or if they will continue at all. See Note 18 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of nuclear insurance. 52 Table of Contents Decommissioning. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. Generation is required to provide to the NRC a biennial report by unit (annually for Generation’s two units that have been retired) addressing Generation’s ability to meet the NRC-estimated funding levels including scheduled contributions to and earnings on the decommissioning trust funds. The NRC funding levels are based upon the assumption that decommissioning will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results may differ significantly from current estimates. The performance of capital markets also can significantly affect the value of the trust funds. Currently, Generation is making contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to Generation. While Generation has recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), it has no recourse to collect additional amounts from ComEd customers or from the previous owners of Clinton, TMI Unit No. 1 and Oyster Creek generating stations, if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that Generation would be unable to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if Generation no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units may be negatively affected. See Note 2 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ultimately, if the investments held by Generation’s NDTs are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of Generation’s nuclear plants, Generation may be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that NRC minimum funding requirements are met. As a result, Generation’s cash flows and financial position may be significantly adversely affected. See Note 12 of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Generation’s financial performance may be negatively affected by risks arising from its ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. (Exelon and Generation) FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. The license for the Conowingo Hydroelectric Project expires August 31, 2014, and the license for the Muddy Run Pumped Storage Project expires on September 1, 2014. Generation cannot predict whether it will receive all the regulatory approvals for the renewed licenses of its hydroelectric facilities. If FERC does not renew the operating licenses for Generation’s hydroelectric facilities or a station cannot be operated through the end of its operating license, Generation’s results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates currently include assumptions that license renewal will be received. Generation may also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. In addition, conditions may be imposed as part of the license renewal process that may adversely affect operations, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating costs and significantly affect Generation’s results of operations or financial position. Similar effects may result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by Generation. 53 Table of Contents ComEd’s and PECO’s operating costs, and customers’ and regulators’ opinions of ComEd and PECO, are affected by their ability to maintain the availability and reliability of their delivery systems. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Failures of the equipment or facilities, including information systems, used in ComEd’s and PECO’s delivery systems can interrupt the electric transmission and electric and natural gas delivery, which could negatively impact related revenues, and increase maintenance and capital expenditures. Equipment or facilities failures can be due to a number of factors, including weather or information systems failure. Specifically, if the implementation of advanced metering infrastructure, smart grid or other technologies in ComEd or PECO’s service territory fail to perform as intended or are not successfully integrated with billing and other information systems, ComEd and PECO’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. The aforementioned failures or those of other utilities, including prolonged or repeated failures, can affect customer satisfaction and the level of regulatory oversight and ComEd’s and PECO’s maintenance and capital expenditures. Regulated utilities, which are required to provide service to all customers within their service territory, have generally been afforded liability protections against claims by customers relating to failure of service. Under Illinois law, however, ComEd can be required to pay damages to its customers in some circumstances involving extended outages affecting large numbers of its customers, and those damages could be material to ComEd’s results of operations and cash flows. ComEd’s and PECO’s respective ability to deliver electricity, their operating costs and their capital expenditures may be negatively affected by transmission congestion. (Exelon, ComEd and PECO) Demand for electricity within ComEd’s and PECO’s service areas could stress available transmission capacity requiring alternative routing or curtailment of electricity usage with consequent effects on operating costs, revenues and results of operations. Also, insufficient availability of electric supply to meet customer demand could jeopardize ComEd and PECO’s ability to comply with reliability standards and strain customer and regulatory agency relationships. As with all utilities, potential concerns over transmission capacity or generation facility retirements could result in PJM or FERC requiring ComEd and PECO to upgrade or expand their respective transmission systems through additional capital expenditures. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce may negatively impact the Registrants’ results of operations. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) Certain events, such as an employee strike, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, may lead to operating challenges and increased costs for the Registrants. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. The Registrants are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for their generation, transmission and distribution operations. If the Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations could be negatively affected. The Registrants are subject to information security risks. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants face information security risks as the owner-operators of generation, transmission and distribution facilities. A security breach of the Registrants’ information systems could impact the operation of the generation fleet and/or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or subject 54 Table of Contents them to financial harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information. ComEd and PECO’s deployment of smart meters throughout their service territories may increase the risk of damage from an intentional disruption of the system by third parties. The Registrants cannot accurately assess the probability that a security breach may occur, despite the measures taken by the Registrants to prevent such a breach, and are unable to quantify the potential impact of such an event. In addition, new or updated security regulations would require changes in current measures taken by the Registrants and could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The Registrants may make acquisitions that do not achieve the intended financial results. (Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO) The Registrants may make investments and pursue mergers and acquisitions intended to fit their strategic objectives and improve their financial performance. It is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions or others may impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of an investment is subject to a number of uncertainties, and failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. Risks Related to the Pending Merger with Constellation Because the market price of shares of Exelon common stock will fluctuate and the exchange ratio will not be adjusted to reflect such fluctuations, the merger consideration at the date of the closing may vary significantly from the date the merger agreement was executed. Upon completion of the merger, each outstanding share of Constellation common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.930 of a share of Exelon common stock. The number of shares of Exelon common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement for each share of Constellation common stock will not change to reflect changes in the market price of Exelon or Constellation common stock. The market price of Exelon common stock at the time of completion of the merger may vary significantly from the market prices of Exelon common stock on the date the merger agreement was executed. In addition, Exelon might not complete the merger until a significant period of time has passed after the respective special shareholder meetings to approve the merger occurred. Because Exelon will not adjust the exchange ratio to reflect any changes in the market value of Exelon common stock or Constellation common stock, the market value of the Exelon common stock issued in connection with the merger and the Constellation common stock surrendered in connection with the merger may be higher or lower than the values of those shares on earlier dates. Stock price changes may result from market assessment of the likelihood that the merger will be completed, changes in the business, operations or prospects of Exelon or Constellation prior to or following the merger, litigation or regulatory considerations, general business, market, industry or economic conditions and other factors both within and beyond the control of Exelon and Constellation. Neither Exelon nor Constellation is permitted to terminate the merger agreement solely because of changes in the market price of either company’s common stock. The combined company’s assets, liabilities or results of operations could be adversely affected by unknown or unexpected events, conditions or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. The Constellation assets, liabilities, business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and prospects to be acquired or assumed by Exelon by reason of the merger could be adversely affected 55 Table of Contents before or after the merger closing as a result of previously unknown events or conditions occurring or existing before the merger closing. Adverse changes in Constellation’s business or operations could occur or arise as a result of actions by Constellation, legal or regulatory developments including the emergence or unfavorable resolution of pre-acquisition loss contingencies, deteriorating general business, market, industry or economic conditions, and other factors both within and beyond the control of Constellation. A significant decline in the value of Constellation assets to be acquired by Exelon or a significant increase in Constellation liabilities to be assumed by Exelon could adversely affect the combined company’s future business, financial condition, cash flows, operating results and prospects. The merger agreement contains provisions that limit each of Exelon’s and Constellation’s ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, which could discourage a potential acquirer of either Constellation or Exelon from making an alternative transaction proposal and, in certain circumstances, could require Exelon or Constellation to pay to the other a significant termination fee. Under the merger agreement, Exelon and Constellation are restricted, subject to limited exceptions, from entering into alternative transactions in lieu of the merger. In general, unless and until the merger agreement is terminated, both Exelon and Constellation are restricted from, among other things, soliciting, initiating, knowingly encouraging or facilitating a competing acquisition proposal from any person. Each of the Exelon board of directors and the Constellation board of directors is limited in its ability to change its recommendation with respect to the merger-related proposals. Exelon or Constellation may terminate the merger agreement and enter into an agreement with respect to a superior proposal only if specified conditions have been satisfied, including compliance with the non-solicitation provisions of the merger agreement. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Exelon or Constellation from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the consideration proposed to be received or realized in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it would otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. Under the merger agreement, in the event Exelon or Constellation terminates the merger agreement to accept a superior proposal, or under certain other circumstances, Exelon or Constellation, as applicable, would be required to pay a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon. Exelon and Constellation will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that may cause disruption and could adversely affect their financial results. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on Exelon and/or Constellation. These uncertainties may impair Exelon’s and/or Constellation’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, and could cause customers, suppliers and others who deal with Exelon or Constellation to seek to change existing business relationships with Exelon or Constellation. The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration may also place a burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect Exelon’s and/or Constellation’s financial results. In addition, the merger agreement restricts each of Exelon and Constellation, without the other’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions while the merger is 56 Table of Contents pending. These restrictions may prevent Exelon and/or Constellation from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to their respective businesses prior to completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement. If completed, the merger may not achieve its anticipated results, and Exelon and Constellation may be unable to integrate their operations in the manner expected. Exelon and Constellation entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the businesses of Exelon and Constellation can be integrated in an efficient, effective and timely manner. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger as and when expected. The companies may have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company’s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The merger may not be accretive to earnings and may cause dilution to Exelon’s earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of Exelon’s common stock. Exelon currently anticipates that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share in 2013, which is expected to be the first full year following completion of the merger. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. Exelon also could encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger or be subject to other factors that affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in Exelon’s adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the merger and contribute to a decrease in the price of Exelon’s common stock. Exelon may record goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect its operating results. Accounting standards in the United States require that one party to the merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the merger will be accounted for as an acquisition of Constellation common stock by Exelon and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The assets and liabilities of Constellation will be consolidated with those of Exelon. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of Constellation’s assets and liabilities, if any, will be recorded as goodwill. The amount of goodwill, which could be material, will be allocated to the appropriate reporting units of the combined company. Exelon is required to assess goodwill for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair value of reporting units to the carrying value of those reporting units. To the extent the carrying value of any of those reporting units is greater than the fair value, a second step comparing the implied fair value of goodwill to the carrying amount would be required to determine if the goodwill is impaired. Such a potential impairment could result in a material charge that would have a material impact on Exelon’s future operating results and consolidated balance sheet. 57 Table of Contents Pending litigation against Exelon and Constellation could result in an injunction preventing the completion of the merger or a judgment resulting in the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed and may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition or results of operations and cash flows following the merger. Twelve purported class action lawsuits were filed against Constellation, each member of Constellation’s board of directors, Exelon and Bolt Acquisition Corporation, a Maryland corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon, in connection with the merger. Among other things, the lawsuits sought injunctive relief that would have prevented completion of the merger in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. The parties to the litigation have reached a settlement that remains subject to court approval. If the settlement is not approved by the court, these lawsuits could prevent or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to Exelon and Constellation, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. Plaintiffs may file additional lawsuits against Exelon, Constellation and/or the directors and officers of either company in connection with the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger is completed may adversely affect the combined company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The merger is subject to the receipt of consent or approval from governmental entities that could delay the completion of the merger or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on the combined company or that could cause abandonment of the merger. Completion of the merger is conditioned upon the receipt of consents, orders, approvals or clearances, to the extent required, from the FERC, the NRC, the FCC, and the public utility commissions or similar entities in certain states in which the companies operate, including the Maryland Public Service Commission. The merger is also subject to review by the DOJ Antitrust Division, under the HSR Act, and the expiration or earlier termination of the waiting period (and any extension of the waiting period) applicable to the merger is a condition to closing the merger. As of February 9, 2012, the merger remains subject to the approval of the NRC, FERC and the Maryland Public Service Commission, which may impose conditions for approval beyond those already proposed by Exelon and Constellation. The shareholders of Exelon and Constellation approved the proposals required to complete the merger at the special meetings of the shareholders before any or all of the required regulatory approvals have been obtained and before all conditions to such approvals, if any, are known. As a result, Exelon and Constellation may subsequently agree to conditions without seeking further shareholder approval, even if such conditions could have an adverse effect on Exelon, Constellation or the combined company. Exelon and Constellation cannot provide assurance that all required regulatory consents or approvals will be obtained or that these consents or approvals will not contain terms, conditions or restrictions that would be detrimental to the combined company after the completion of the merger. The merger agreement generally permits each party to terminate the merger agreement if the final terms of any of the required regulatory consents or approvals require (1) any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over any nuclear or hydroelectric or pumped-storage generation assets of the parties or any of their respective subsidiaries or affiliates; or (2) any action (including any action that involves divesting, holding separate or otherwise transferring control over base-load capacity), without including those actions proposed by the parties’ mutually agreed-upon analysis of mitigation to address the increased market concentration resulting from the merger and the concessions announced by the parties in the press release announcing the merger agreement, which would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on either party. Any substantial delay in obtaining satisfactory approvals, receipt of proceeds from 58 Table of Contents required divestitures in an amount substantially lower than anticipated or the imposition of any terms or conditions in connection with such approvals could cause a material reduction in the expected benefits of the merger. If any such delays or conditions are serious enough, the parties may decide to abandon the merger. Exelon cannot assure that it will be able to continue paying dividends at the current rate. Exelon currently expects to pay dividends in an amount consistent with the dividend policy of Exelon in effect prior to the completion of the merger. However, there is no assurance that Exelon shareholders will receive the same dividends following the merger for reasons that may include any of the following factors: • Exelon may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in Exelon’s cash requirements, capital spending plans, financing agreements, cash flow or financial position; • decisions on whether, when and in which amounts to make any future distributions will remain at all times entirely at the discretion of the Exelon board of directors, which reserves the right to change Exelon’s dividend practices at any time and for any reason; • the amount of dividends that Exelon may distribute to its shareholders is subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania law; and • Exelon may not receive dividend payments from its subsidiaries in the same level that it has historically. The ability of Exelon’s subsidiaries to make dividend payments to it is subject to factors similar to those listed above. Exelon’s shareholders have no contractual or other legal right to dividends that have not been declared. If completed, the merger may adversely affect the combined company’s ability to attract and retain key employees. Current and prospective Exelon and Constellation employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles at the combined company following the completion of the merger. In addition, current and prospective Exelon and Constellation employees may determine that they do not desire to work for the combined company for a variety of possible reasons. These factors may adversely affect the combined company’s ability to attract and retain key management and other personnel. Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect the share prices and the future businesses and financial results of Exelon and Constellation. Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by governmental agencies will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. If the merger is not completed, the ongoing businesses of Exelon or Constellation may be adversely affected and Exelon and Constellation will be subject to several risks, including: • having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the benefits of the merger, including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of $800 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Exelon to Constellation and a termination fee of $200 million in the case of a termination fee payable by Constellation to Exelon; • Exelon and Constellation will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their businesses, which may have prevented them from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the merger is pending; and 59 Table of Contents • the share price of Exelon or Constellation may decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect an assumption by the market that the merger will be completed. Exelon and Constellation may incur unexpected transaction fees and merger-related costs in connection with the merger. Exelon and Constellation expect to incur a number of non-recurring expenses, totalling approximately $150 million, associated with completing the merger, as well as expenses related to combining the operations of the two companies. The combined company may incur additional unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of Exelon and Constellation. Although Exelon expects that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, the combined company may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. Current Exelon shareholders and Constellation stockholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the merger. Exelon will issue or reserve for issuance approximately 201.9 million shares of Exelon common stock to Constellation stockholders in the merger (including shares of Exelon common stock issuable pursuant to Constellation stock options and other equity-based awards). Based on the number of shares of common stock of Exelon and Constellation outstanding on March 31, 2011, the record date for the two companies’ special meetings of shareholders, upon the completion of the merger, current Exelon shareholders and former Constellation stockholders would own approximately 78% and 22% of the outstanding shares of Exelon common stock, respectively, immediately following the consummation of the merger. Exelon shareholders and Constellation stockholders currently have the right to vote for their respective directors and on other matters affecting their company. When the merger occurs, each Constellation stockholder who receives shares of Exelon common stock will become a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholder’s percentage ownership of Constellation. Correspondingly, each Exelon shareholder will remain a shareholder of Exelon with a percentage ownership of the combined company that will be smaller than the shareholder’s percentage of Exelon prior to the merger. As a result of these reduced ownership percentages, Exelon shareholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Exelon, and former Constellation stockholders will have less voting power in the combined company than they now have with respect to Constellation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Exelon, Generation, ComEd and PECO None. 60 Table of Contents 