D. Risk Factors There is a high degree of risk associated with our company and business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Our Markets We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur additional losses in the future. Moreover, if our business deteriorates, we could face liquidity problems. Despite having had net income of $11.6 million and $2.7 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, we incurred net losses of $11.8 million, $9.6 million and $7.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may not be able to achieve or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to generate consistent profitability could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. In 2009 our operations provided $3.9 million in cash while in 2008 we used $2.9 million of our cash in operations. At December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $15.8 million. We may use cash in our operations during 2010, and may continue to incur significant additional legal expenses and other costs associated with certain patent infringement actions; a judgment has been rendered in favor of a competitor in its patent infringement case against Camtek awarding, among others, damages of approximately $6.8 million and pre-judgment interest of approximately $1.2 million. See below “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us”. We are currently pursuing post-judgment motions to overturn or modify this judgment. Should we be unsuccessful, we plan to appeal this judgment. During this period additional post-trial interest may accrue. A payment of any sums set forth in the judgment, if and when required, may adversely affect our liquidity and require us to further reduce our expenses and/or to arrange for additional financing. If available liquidity is not sufficient to meet our operating and other obligations as they come due, our plans include pursuing additional financing arrangements, the availability and terms of which are not assured, or further reducing expenditures as necessary to meet our cash requirements. The markets we target are highly cyclical and the Company does not have any information that enables it to predict the cycles in these markets. Also, these markets are negatively affected by periods of down-turns, as the one recently experienced. The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclicality. As a result of our market penetration to the semiconductor industry, we experienced growth from this market from 2004 until the second quarter of 2006. In the second half of 2006 we were affected by the market's weakness, which continued to affect us until the third quarter of 2007. In the last quarter of 2007 and the first half of 2008 we experienced growth unrelated to increased capacity in this market. In the second half of 2008 and during 2009 our revenues from this market, as well as from our other markets, decreased, due to the severe global economic recession. The printed circuit board and the IC substrate industries is also cyclical and experienced a prolonged and severe down-turn in 2002 and 2003, an expansion and growth during 2004, and significant fluctuation on a quarterly and annual basis thereafter. In 2005, there was a decrease in demand from our clients in the printed circuit board industry, as a result of a capacity adjustment in that market but in 2006 the demand from our clients in the printed circuit board market increased again. In the first quarter of 2007 we had a seasonal adjustment down but then an expansion during the second and third quarters of 2007, with a further adjustment down in the fourth quarter of 2007 and first half of 2008. During the second half of 2008 and during 2009 our revenues from the printed circuit board and IC substrate industries, and sales of our AOI systems to manufactures in these industries, were severely affected by the global economic recession. The global economic recession recently experienced and the resulting decline in the electronics industry and reduced capital expenditures by manufacturers worldwide, has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 In the event of a reduction in demand during cyclical downturns, as those we have experienced in the past and are likely to experience in the future, we have only a limited ability to reduce expenses without harming our ability to rapidly grow when our markets recover and demand increases again. For example, in order to maintain such ability, we are required to make significant ongoing expenditures related to engineering, research and development and worldwide customer service and support operations. Accordingly, we may incur losses during downturns or capacity adjustments affecting the markets we serve. Our future success depends on our ability to increase revenues from sales of AOI systems to both the back end and front end markets of the semiconductor industry. If our share in these markets fails to grow or we will fail to acquire customers to our new systems and applications, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are planning to increase our revenues from sales of AOI systems to both the back end and front end markets. Our future success in the semiconductor industry depends on our ability to continue to sustain and increase the acceptance rate of our AOI systems and new applications we included in our AOI systems offered to the back end market. Our success also depends on the acceptance rate of our new systems to the front end market, through the Gannet, as well as of our automated sample preparation systems, acquired through the acquisition of SELA - Semiconductor Engineering Laboratories Ltd ("Sela") (see below in Item 4.B "Business Overview – Our Business"). If the markets for our systems in the semiconductor industry do not develop at the rate we expect, whether as a result of our inability to obtain repeat orders from our customers or to acquire customers who would adopt our new systems, as well as our new applications to other AOI systems, an economic downturn, intensified competition, presentation to the market of alternative technologies, costly penetration of our new systems, changes in technology, changes in product standards, or otherwise - our results will be adversely affected. In 2007 our revenues from our system to the back end market, the Falcon, significantly decreased, due to a downturn in the semiconductor industry. In 2008 our revenues from the Falcon increased by 48% above 2007 to $30 million, as a result of several multiple orders of technology-driven purchases and penetration to new customers with new applications. In 2009 our revenues from the semiconductor industry amounted to $20 million, a decrease which resulted from the recent global economic recession (the fourth quarter of 2009 included revenues from our new system, the Gannet, and Sela). We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase Falcon revenues to or above the levels previously achieved and/or to increase our revenues from our new systems. Since an injunction was issued in the lawsuit brought against us by Rudolph Technologies Inc. (see “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us” below), we are prohibited from selling our Falcon systems in the United States, which resulted in a decline in our revenues from the Falcon there. We expanded and may attempt to expand our activity in the markets we operate in through M&A activity. Such activity may result in operating difficulties, dilution, losses and other adverse consequences. We plan to grow our business, in part through acquisitions. Our existing operations, as well as any future acquired businesses or assets, could involve numerous risks, including: post-merger integration difficulties; diversion of management's attention from our core business; failing to estimate the acquired business future performances and failing to execute such expectations; failing to enter new products to our existing or new markets; inaccurate evaluation of expected competition from strong competitors and/or of the fair value of certain assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired operations. In addition, we can not be certain that any future acquisition or merger will be successful. If the operation of the business of any acquisition or merger disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Even if we successfully integrate the acquired businesses with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of these acquisitions as a result of, for example, performances below expectations, changes in the economic or market conditions and the entering of stronger competitors or new technologies. 8 In addition, accounting issues are expected to influence our future results of operation such as possibility of impairment charges as a result of decline in value of goodwill and other intangible assets, an ongoing amortization of intangible assets acquired, financing expenses due to reevaluation of contingent liabilities and other liabilities assumed presented at fair value (see also in Item 5 below - “Critical Accounting Policies“). Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, decrease in our cash resources, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other well-established and well-capitalized entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. In 2009 we invested efforts in the development of new growth engines by acquiring the assets of Printar Ltd. ("Printar") and the entire share capital of SELA – Semiconductor Engineering Laboratories Ltd ("Sela"), both Israeli companies; see below in Item 4.B "Business Overview – Our Business". The technology of one of the two major fields of Printar's activity, the solder mask, is in the development stage, so there is still risk associated with this activity, and our success is not guaranteed. Longer sales process for new products may increase our costs and delay time to market of our products, both of which may negatively impact our inventory and results of operations. Excess inventory can lead to material inventory write-offs. Our sales process for new products to new and existing customers involves: demonstrations and testing against industry benchmarks in our sales centers; sales and technical presentations and presentations regarding our products’ competitive advantages; and installation of the systems at the customer’s site for side-by-side competitive evaluations for a period of one to six months. More evaluation time is devoted during the initial penetration period for new products and for new customers in new markets, since these circumstances usually require engineering efforts to fix errors, customize tasks and add new features. In the second half of 2009 we increased our products offering to our customers in the semiconductor industry by introducing the Gannet and sample prepara tion systems (See in Item 4.B – Business Overview – Product Lines), therefore our finished goods inventory may increase disproportionately to our revenues. At December 31, 2009, $4.7 million of our inventory was in excess of our estimate of our current requirements for 2010, based on our recent level of sales. We believe that this amount will be utilized according to our forecasted sales and that no loss will be incurred on its disposition. However, we cannot estimate a range of the amount of loss that is reasonably possible should the forecasted sales not be realized. Any material impairment of aged or obsolete inventory could adversely affect our results of operations. Moreover, our customers often require that we deliver our products with short lead times. In order to meet our customers’ needs in the timeframe they require, we usually need to pre-order components and subsystems based on our forecasts of future orders, rather than on actual orders. In order to compensate for unexpected delays, we have had to predict our needs further into the future, which increases the risk that our predictions may not correspond to our actual future needs. We operate an international sales and manufacturing organization. A substantial majority of our sales has been to manufacturers in the Asia Pacific region. The concentration of our sales and other resources within a particular geographical region subjects us to additional risks. We have sold our systems in over 30 countries around the world. In recent years, the majority of our sales were in the Asia Pacific region. In 2009, our sales in the Asia Pacific region accounted for approximately 82% of our total revenues, including approximately 36% of our total revenues from sales in China and Hong Kong, 16% from sales in Korea and 9% from sales in Taiwan. In addition, in 2009 we completed the transfer of the assembly of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry to our manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China. Changes in local legislation, changes in governmental controls and regulations, changes in tariffs and taxes, political instability, trade restrictions, a downturn in economic or financial conditions, as well as any extraordinary events having an adverse effect on the economy or business environme nt in this region may cause a significant decline in our future revenues and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. These general risks are heightened in China, where the nature of the economy and the legal parameters are rapidly evolving and where foreign companies may face cultural obstacles. 9 The markets we serve are highly competitive. There is a dominant market participant for AOI systems both for the final inspection of silicon wafers in the semiconductor industry and in the printed circuit board industry, and some of our competitors have greater resources, all of which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability or plan our cash flow. Competition in the markets we serve is intense. During market downturns, including the recent global economic recession, competition has intensified due to the reduced demand for the type of products that we manufacture. When competitors respond to declining demand by offering discounts, free evaluation machines or more favorable credit terms, we may need to implement some or all of the same methods in order to maintain our market position. These could mean lower prices for our products and a corresponding reduction in our gross margin, as well as favorable payment terms to our customers and a corresponding decline in cash flow. If we have to lower prices to remain competitive and are unable to reduce our costs to offset price reductions or are unable to introduce new, higher performance products with higher prices, our operating resu lts may be adversely affected. If we have to implement more favorable payment terms to our customers, our cash flow may be adversely affected. Competitors currently sell systems that provide functionality similar to our products. In the back end and front end markets of the semiconductor industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant for AOI systems is Rudolph Technologies Inc., with additional competitors including KLA-Tencor, Topcon, Toray, Tosok and Hitachi. Since we entered the final inspection of silicon wafers business in early 2004, there have been several mergers and acquisitions that changed the competitive map; starting with Rudolph Technologies Inc.'s acquisition of August Technologies in 2005 and the acquisition of the bumped wafer inspection line of RVSI Inspection, LLC, in January 2008, continuing with Solvision's acquisition by Zygo in February 2008 and the purchase of 96% of ICOS's shares by KLA-Tencor in May 2008. These acquisitions can reinforce the previously smaller competitors with resources, financial backing and the better market position of the acquiring companies, while bringing new forces to the marketplace. As a result, Camtek may need to overcome unfavorable market share perception and invest more R& D efforts in maintaining its technological position. In the printed circuit board and IC substrate industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is Orbotech Ltd., with additional competitors including Dainippon Screen, Lloyd-Doyle, Gigavis, Shirai, ATI, local AOI vendors in China and Taiwan and Utechzone, with whom we have entered into cooperation for the sale of Utechzone's products by us. In addition, there is a market for used AOI systems for printed circuit board manufacturers, which may reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices in certain cases. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources and offer a broader range of products and services. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, develop additional or superior products, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. The unavailability of credit insurance may adversely affect our willingness to sell to certain customers. Since the second quarter of 2006, we have purchased credit insurance from an Israeli insurance company to cover certain sales. During the recent global economic crisis and the crisis in the financial and credit markets, the criteria for such insurance have been strengthened. Consequently, credit insurance which previously covered some of our customers was and may be unavailable. This could adversely affect our willingness to sell products to these customers. 10 Technology in the markets in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to keep pace with these changes or with emerging industry standards. This could result in a loss of revenues. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and new product introductions. Potential new technologies and improvements to existing production equipment and methods could improve production yields, thereby reducing the need to use our AOI systems in these industries. In addition, new technologies could emerge as alternatives to using our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new technologies for AOI of printed circuit boards, IC substrates and silicon wafers. These products must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes, with products offered by our competitors or with emerging industry standards, our ability to attract new business and generate revenues may be damaged. We seek to expand our activity into unsaturated markets adjacent to our existing served markets, such as the inspection of silicon wafers at various steps during their manufacturing process inside the wafer fabrication facility. Technological developments in production processes and in process control may reduce the growth we anticipate in demand for inspection systems. If this happens, we may not be able to cover our investments in penetrating these markets, or will have to increase our R&D and marketing expense to adapt our products to such changes. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us. Third parties have asserted claims, and may assert additional claims in the future, that we have violated their patents or that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims against us, even if without merit, could lead to protracted litigation, could cost us a significant amount of money to defend and could divert management’s attention from our business. Successful claims against us could limit our ability to sell products in certain jurisdictions. On July 14, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota by one of the Company's competitors in the field of semiconductor, August Technology Corporation (today Rudolph Technologies Inc. having acquired August Technology Corporation), alleging infringement of a patent and seeking injunctive relief and damages. On March 6, 2009 a jury verdict was rendered in favor of Rudolph, awarding damages of approximately $6.8 million with regard to sales of Camtek's Falcon products in the United States. The jury also found that the infringement was not willful. On August 28, 2009, the court entered judgment ordering the Company to pay the jury award, as well as an additional $1.2 million in interest. The court ordered the Company to account for any recent Falcon sales in the United States so that additional damages, if any, may be assessed. The court also ordered the Company to discontinu e all sales and marketing of Falcon in the United States. Pursuant to the terms of the injunction, service and repair of machines sold prior to the jury verdict will be permitted to keep the system in original operating condition. The judgment relates only to the Company's Falcon operations in the United States, and should not have an effect on any of the Company's other operations. Camtek is aggressively pursuing several post-judgment motions to reverse the court's judgment. The Company has also requested a stay on enforcement of any judgment until the post-judgment motions are decided. We believe that we have good grounds to be ultimately successful with those motions or an appeal, if necessary, but see also in "We have a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur additional losses in the future. Moreover, if our business deteriorates, we could face liquidity problems" above. On June 1, 2010, the Company has been advised that Rudolph Technologies Inc. has filed against us a new patent infringement claim in the U.S District Court of Minnesota, according to which Rudolph claims that Camtek’s Falcon and Gannet systems infringe Rudolph’s new patent No. 7,779, 528 . Camtek has not yet been served with a complaint in this lawsuit. However, Camtek believes that it has good defenses and intends to aggressively defend itself from the allegations in this claim and its right to sell its tools in the United States. 11 On May 10, 2004, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Nazareth, Israel, by our competitor, Orbotech Ltd., alleging that the Dragon and Falcon systems infringe upon a patent held by Orbotech Ltd. and requesting injunctive relief and damages. The patent upon which the claim is asserted expired in February 2008. The court advised the parties to turn to mediation. The parties participated in one mediation meeting, after which they have decided to end the mediation and to hold direct negotiations between them. Currently, court sessions have been postponed for as long as the parties continue their direct negotiations. We believe that we have substantial defenses against the validity of Orbotech’s patent and substantial defenses against Orbotech’s claims. On February 23, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Jerusalem by Orbotech Ltd., alleging infringement of patent held by Orbotech Ltd. regarding a specific illumination block (an apparatus for illuminating and controlling the illumination of scanned objects), seeking injunctive relief and damages. The court ruled, based on a court’s scientific advisor's opinion and prima facie evidence, that Camtek infringed the patent, and granted Orbotech a provisional remedy, i.e. interim relief, which prevents Camtek from manufacturing the allegedly infringing illumination block in suit. The claim is currently in the preliminary stage of discovery and only after evidence is presented and cross examinations are conducted will a final judgment be rendered by the Dis trict Court, subject to the right to appeal. The patent upon which the claim is asserted expired in February 2007. The Company has filed two motions for the lawsuit to be dismissed, both still pending. At the court's recommendation, the parties held one mediation meeting, after which they decided to conduct direct negotiations between them, without the mediator. Currently, court sessions have been postponed for as long as the parties continue their direct negotiations. We believe that we have good defenses in the infringement aspect of the claim. We further believe that we have claims with respect to the validity of the asserted patent, as well as other defenses such as estoppel and lack of good faith on the part of Orbotech. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our defense against these claims. If these claims are ultimately successful, they could have a negative impact on our business by impairing our ability to sell our systems, and they could result in pecuniary damages against us and significant legal and other defense costs, which would impact our cash resources and profitability. In the event we do not prevail against these claims, we may also be liable for any court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the claimants in connection with these litigations. Even if we will be successful in our defense against these claims, we may still incur significant legal expenses while resolving these matters. If one or more of our third-party suppliers or subcontractors does not provide us with key components or subsystems, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, and we may incur substantial costs to obtain these components from alternate sources. We rely on single source and limited source suppliers and subcontractors for a number of essential components and subsystems of our products. We do not have agreements with all of these suppliers and subcontractors for the continued supply of the components or subsystems they provide. If some of our key suppliers encounter difficulties and financial problems or rapid increases in demands, they might be unable to supply us with the necessary components or subsystems and meet our requirements in a timely manner. An interruption in supply from these sources or an unexpected termination of the manufacture of key components or subsystems would disrupt production and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers, hence could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Although we have taken and currently take precautions against this kind of events, an unexpected termination or disruption of supply would require an investment in capital and manpower resources in order to shift to other suppliers and might cause a significant delay in introducing replacement products or a significant increase in inventory which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation. Since the beginning of 2010 our Falcon systems are manufactured by a single subcontractor who performs part of the material planning, procurement, manufacturing, testing, assembly and packaging work with respect to these systems. Although we currently maintain sufficient level of inventory for Falcons, this subcontractor's inability to meet our requirements in a timely manner, as well as an unexpected termination or disruption of supply from this subcontractor, will possibly cause late deliveries of our products to our customers, require an investment in resources in order to shift to another supplier and might cause significant delays and adversely affect our business and results of operation. 12 We may encounter difficulties in purchasing key components and subsystems, or overestimate our needs, to meet customer demand. In the current highly-competitive business environment, our customers require us to fill orders within a very short period of time. Our products are complex and require essential components and subsystems that are produced by a number of suppliers and subcontractors. These suppliers and subcontractors cannot always supply such components and subsystems within the time frame demanded by our customers. Therefore, we are required to predict future demands. We believe that we have sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on time. However, if market conditions rapidly change and customer demand increases, we will be required to order additional components and subsystems. If our suppliers and subcontractors are unable to timely meet our increased demand, we might not be able to adequately meet our customers’ demands. O ur inability to satisfy any increase in customer orders could result in the loss of sales and could cause customers to seek products from our competitors. We may also overestimate our future needs, which could result in our carrying excess inventory of certain components and subsystems. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively. We differentiate our products and technologies from those of our competitors by using our proprietary software, our image processing algorithms and the integration of our advanced hardware components. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trade secrets, patents, trademarks, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how and intellectual property, including hardware and software components of our products, digital ink formula and our AIM technology. These measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies and it may be possible for a third party, including a competitor, to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technologies without authorization or to develop similar technologies independently. Additionally, our products may be sold in countries, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in the prices of our products becoming less competitive or in additional expenses. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our products' prices in most countries outside of Europe and Japan are denominated in dollars. In those countries, if there is a significant devaluation in the local currency compared to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that local currency and may be less competitive. In addition, much of our service income is denominated in local currencies. If a larger number of our sales were to be denominated in currencies other than dollars, our reported revenue and earnings would be subject to a greater degree of foreign exchange fluctuations. We generate most of our revenues from products in dollars but incur a significant portion of our salary and operating expenses in NIS. As the majority of our revenues are denominated in dollars and as our financial results are reported in dollars, we believe that inflation and fluctuations in the NIS/dollar exchange rate have no material effect on our revenues. However, a major portion of the costs of our Israeli operations, such as personnel, subcontractors, materials and facility-related costs, are incurred in NIS. An increase in the NIS value relative to the dollar will increase our costs expressed in dollars, and a decrease in the NIS value relative to the dollar will decrease our costs expressed in dollars. We may, from time to time, take various measures designed to reduce our exposure to these effects, but any such steps may be inadequate to protect us from currency rate fluctuations. Failure to protect adequately against currency rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 We may face risks of interruptions in our production capabilities. Our major manufacturing facility is located in Migdal Ha’Emek, Israel. Any event affecting this site, including natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. We have a manufacturing facility in China, in which we assemble most of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry. Therefore, we may be influenced by changing events in China; for example, our manufacturing activity in China may suffer as a result of changes in China's geopolitical status or fluctuations in its economic stability. In addition, we may be exposed to sourcing risks, such as supply-chain and business interruption issues. Further potential risks may be associated with such issues as the protection of our intellectual property; the recruitment and retention of skilled employees. Any event affecting this site may disrupt our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. We may experience fluctuations in our future operating results, making it difficult to predict future results. Our revenues and net income (loss), in any particular period may be lower (or greater) than revenues and net income (loss), in a preceding or comparable period. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our earnings. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as indications of our future performance. Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: · the size, timing and shipment of substantial orders; · products mixture; · customer budget cycles and installation schedules; · product introductions; · temporary shifts in industry capacity; · the pricing of our products; · the timing of new product upgrades or enhancements; · the timing of installation or, in some cases, of acceptance of our products by our customers; · interest and exchange rates; and · Possible impairment of goodwill and other assets. 14 We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our continued growth and success significantly depend on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management and key employees. Due to the recent economic recession, at the end of 2008 and beginning of 2009 we implemented cost reduction measures, resulting in a reduction of about 25% of our human resources-related expenses. If our operations rapidly expand, we believe that we will need to promote and hire qualified engineering, administrative, operational, financial and marketing personnel. In particular, we may find it difficult to hire key personnel with the requisite knowledge of our business, products and technologies. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. During periods of economic growth, competition for qualifi ed engineering and technical personnel is intense. If our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rafi Amit, who is currently handling the development of our business in the Far East, other members of our senior management or any of our key employees are unable or unwilling to continue being employed by us, our business would suffer. We do not have a key man life insurance policy for Mr. Amit. As a result of the acquisition of Sela and Printar’s assets we employ certain key employees of these two operations. There is no assurance that these key employees will continue to be employed by us, and a discontinuation of their employment could result in negative effect on our business. Our relationship with Priortech may give rise to conflicts of interest. We purchase products of, or sell products to, Priortech Ltd., our principal shareholder, and other companies owned or controlled by it, directly or indirectly, and act jointly with respect to governmental and administrative matters and the purchase from third parties of various products and services, which may create conflicts of interest. Despite Israeli law procedural requirements, including obtaining special shareholder approvals for interested party transactions, we cannot be certain that those procedures will eliminate the possible detrimental effects of any of these transactions and activities. In addition, Mr. Rafi Amit acts as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, on a full time basis, as well as acting as Priortech’s Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Yotam Stern, our Executive Vice President, Business 160;& Strategy and Chairman of the Board of Directors, spends 40% of his time serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Priortech and other positions in the Priortech group. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares being taxed at as ordinary income rates rather than capital gain rates, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions generally will apply to certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. U.S. shareholders should consult wi th their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Based on an analysis of our assets and income we believe that in 2009 we were not a PFIC. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2010. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors, including the relative value of our passive assets and our non-passive assets, our market capitalization and the amount and type of our gross income. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2010 or in any future taxable year. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and the related tax consequences, please see “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company". 15 Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past. During the period from January 1, 2009 through May 31, 2010, the closing price of our ordinary shares ranged from $0.345 to $3.48. Our ordinary shares may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the following: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · market conditions relating to our customers’ industries; · global economic conditions, which generally influence stock market prices and volume fluctuations, like the recent global economic recession; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; · large block transactions in our ordinary shares; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, M&A transactions, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · announcements of significant claims or proceedings against us and developments in such proceedings; · additions or departures of our key personnel; and · future sales of our ordinary shares. Stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, political events or hostilities in Israel or the surrounding region could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Currently, we are facing a class action complaint, as detailed in Item 8A – Legal Proceedings. This class action complaint could be protracted and divert management’s attention and resources. Our principal shareholder, Priortech, holds a controlling interest in us and will be able to exercise its control in ways that may be adverse to your interests. Priortech beneficially holds 60.6% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Priortech has the power to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of making it more difficult to obtain approval for a change in control of us. Messrs. Rafi Amit, Yotam Stern and Itzhak Krell control Priortech and may be deemed to control us. 16 Changes in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results. We prepare our financial statements to conform to U.S. GAAP. From time to time, recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the United States (the “FASB”) and the SEC, issue new and/or revised accounting standards or guidance. Changes to existing standards or the questioning of current practices may adversely or significantly affect the way in which the Company records and reports its operating results, cash flows and financial position. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. Our principal offices, sole research and development facility and principal manufacturing facility are located in the State of Israel. We depend on components imported from outside of Israel and almost all of our sales occur outside of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: · any major hostilities involving Israel; · a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; · the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; and · a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. In July 2006 there were extensive hostilities along Israel's northern boarder, with Lebanon, in proximity to where we are located, without any material impact on our operations. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other stat es in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies of those countries directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of our key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Some of our employees in Israel, including certain key employees, are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli army and are subject to being called up for reserve duty at any time. The absence of one or more of our officers and key employees for significant periods of time due to military service could be disruptive to our operations. 17 The Israeli government programs and tax benefits in which we have participated in the past and in which we currently participate or from which we receive benefits require us to meet several conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our tax expenses. We and our subsidiary Sela benefit from certain Israeli government programs and tax benefits, particularly from tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the Approved Enterprise status of our manufacturing facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment and financing a percentage of those investments with our share capital. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, these tax benefits could be cancelled, and we could be required to refund those tax benefits already received. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all, and our requests for future participation in these programs for any future expansion of our manufacturing facilities may n ot be approved. In recent years, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under certain of its programs in which we do not participate. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our tax rates, thereby reducing our net profits or increasing our net losses. The government grants we receive for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products or to transfer technologies outside of Israel. From our inception through 2000, we received government grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (the “OCS”), for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. In March 2001, we commenced repayment of many of these grants pursuant to an understanding reached with the OCS. As of June 1, 2005, we have fully repaid our previously received grants from the OCS. Except for special circumstances and if we obtain governmental consents and pay to the OCS amounts which may be substantial, the terms of these grants prohibit us from selling or transferring rights in the technology developed with the grants outside of Israel and allow sale or transfer of rights within Israel only with special go vernmental approvals, even after full repayment of the grants. Elements of our technologies, including in the areas of electronic hardware, image processing, electro-optics, physics and mechanics, were developed with OCS grants. In addition, we may only manufacture products developed with these grants outside of Israel pursuant to the approval of a special governmental committee, and any approval of this nature may also require us to pay a further significant amount of royalties than the terms of the grants required, unless the amount of production outside Israel is less than 10% of the original rate of production and the OCS has not objected to the transfer of products. The restrictions regarding the sale or transfer of technology or manufacturing rights out of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into strategic alliances or enter into merger or acquisition transactions in the future that provide for the sale or transfer of our technology or manufacturing rights. Sela, recently acquired by us, received government grants from the OCS for the financing of significant portion of its product development expenditures in previous years. As of December 31, 2009 the amount of non repaid grants received including interest accrued by Sela, amounted to $3.0 million. As part of the acquisition of Printar’s assets and certain liabilities, we assumed Printar’s liability to the OCS. In addition, in 2009 we received additional grants with respect to the development programs of the digital material deposition systems in the amount of $0.4 million. As of December 31, 2009 the amount of non-repaid grants received including interest accrued by us and by Printar amounted to 5.0 million. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this Annual Report or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and our Israeli attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to assert U.S. federal securities laws claims or to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in actions originally instituted in Israel. 18 Some provisions of Israeli law could inhibit the acquisition of us by others. Some provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger at a shareholders’ meeting called upon at least 21 days’ notice of each of the merging companies. A merger may not be completed until at least 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal by each of the merging companies with the Israeli Registrar of Companies, and 30 days have passed since the resolution was adopted by the general meeting of each of the merging companies. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a special tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, someone would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by way of a special tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if, as a result of an acquisition of shares, the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. For more information on the provisions of Israeli law in these contexts, please see sections “Share Capital” and “Israeli Taxation.” 