Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Report, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are intended to be ones that are specific to us or our industry and that we deem material, but they are not the only ones that we face. On February 18, 2005, we acquired Vidus. The combined company may not realize expected benefits because of integration and other challenges. If the combined company fails to meet the challenges involved in integrating operations and products successfully or otherwise fails to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, then the results of operations of the combined company could be seriously harmed. Realizing the benefits of the acquisition, if any, will depend in part on the successful integration of technology, operations and personnel. The integration of the companies is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that could significantly disrupt the business of the combined company. The combined company may not successfully integrate the operations of @Road and Vidus in a timely manner, or at all, and the combined company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition to the extent, or in the timeframe, anticipated. The anticipated benefits of the acquisition are based on projections and assumptions, including successful integration, not actual experience. In addition to the integration risks discussed above, the combined company’s ability to realize those benefits could be adversely affected by practical or legal constraints on its ability to combine operations. If the value of Vidus’ goodwill and or intangibles becomes impaired, we may be required to incur significant costs that would adversely affect our financial results. Under the purchase method of accounting, the combined company allocated the total estimated purchase price of $46.3 million to Vidus’ tangible assets, purchased technology and other intangible assets and liabilities assumed based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisition, and recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. The combined company will incur amortization expense over the useful lives of amortizable intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill and or intangibles becomes impaired, the combined company may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of these 11 assets. Any potential impairment charge could have a material impact on the combined company’s results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. If wireless communications providers on which we depend for services decide to adopt new wireless technologies, or abandon or do not continue to expand their wireless networks, our operations may be disrupted, we may lose customers and our revenues could decrease. Currently, our solutions function on GPRS, CDMA 1xRTT, EvDO, EDGE and iDEN networks. These protocols cover only portions of the United States, Europe and Canada. We recently completed a costly and time consuming migration from CDPD, to the protocols set forth above, after wireless communications providers abandoned their CDPD networks in favor of newer technology. If wireless communications providers abandon the protocols upon which our solutions now function in favor of other types of wireless technology, we may not be able to provide services to our customers, or we may be forced to incur considerable costs in order to adapt our solutions to new protocols. In addition, if cellular carriers do not expand their coverage areas, we will be unable to meet the needs of customers who may wish to use our services outside the current cellular coverage area. Any material weakness or significant deficiency identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that companies evaluate and report on their internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. As part of our first quarter 2005 and fourth quarter 2005 closing processes and assessments of internal control over our financial reporting, we identified two internal control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses. The first material weakness concerned our interpretation and implementation of various complex accounting principles in the area of non-recurring transactions, and the second concerned our calculation and timely review of the annual tax provision for 2005. Please see Item 9A Controls and Procedures in Part II of this Report. There can be no assurance that there will not be other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that would be required to be reported in the future. In addition, we expect the evaluation process and any required remediation, if applicable, will increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and may divert management resources from other business objectives and concerns. Our stock price is volatile, which may cause you to lose money and could lead to costly litigation against us that could divert our resources. From time to time, stock markets experience dramatic price and volume fluctuations, particularly for shares of technology companies. These fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations may reduce the market price of our common stock and cause you to lose some or all of your investment. These fluctuations may be exaggerated if the trading volume of our common stock is low. In addition, due to the technology-intensive nature and growth rate of our business and the MRM market, the market price of our common stock may rise and fall in response to: · quarterly variations in operating results; · failure to achieve operating results anticipated by securities analysts and investors; · changes in estimates of our financial performance or changes in recommendations by securities analysts; · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · the gain or loss of a significant customer or order; · disposition of shares of our common stock held by large investors; and · acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or our competitors. 12 When the market price of a company’s stock drops significantly, stockholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against that company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of our management and other resources from our business. We face competition from internal development teams of potential customers and from existing and potential competitors, and if we fail to compete effectively, our ability to acquire new customers could decrease, our revenues would decline and our business would suffer. The market for MRM solutions is competitive and is expected to become even more competitive in the future. If we do not compete effectively, competition could harm our business and limit our ability to acquire new customers and grow revenues, which in turn could result in a loss of our market share and decline in revenues. We believe that our solutions face competition from a number of business productivity solutions, including: · solutions developed internally by our prospective customers’ information technology staff, particularly by large customer prospects; · discrete means of communication with mobile workers, such as pagers, two-way radios, handheld devices and cellular telephones; · solutions targeted at specific vertical markets, such as a service offered by Qualcomm that monitors assets in the long-haul transportation sector; · solutions designed to help companies schedule and route their mobile workers; and · solutions offered by smaller market entrants, many of which are privately held and operate on a regional basis. In addition, we believe that our solutions face competition from manufacturing companies that seek to enter the mobile resource management market, such as Trimble Navigation. We may also face competition from our current and potential alliances, such as wireless carriers, that may develop their own solutions, develop solutions with captive and other suppliers or support the marketing of solutions of other competitors. We also face numerous challenges associated with overcoming the following competitive factors: · Size and resources. Many of our current and potential competitors have access to substantially greater financial, marketing, distribution, engineering and manufacturing resources than we do, which may enable them to react more effectively to new market opportunities and customer requirements. Furthermore, these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive terms than we can. · Name recognition. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and market presence than we do, which may allow them to more effectively market and sell solutions to our current and potential customers. · Limits of product and service offerings. Although we offer a broad range of mobile resource management solutions, a customer prospect may require functionality that we do not offer, which may enable current and potential competitors to exploit the areas in which we do not develop solutions. · Customer relationships. Many of our current and potential competitors have pre-existing relationships with our large customer prospects, which may allow them to more effectively market and sell competitive MRM solutions. 13 As we seek to serve larger customers, we face competition from businesses with greater financial resources, and we may be unable to compete effectively with these businesses. The existing market is competitive. Competition is particularly vigorous for larger customers, which is a customer segment we have worked to serve. We expect competition to increase further as companies develop new products and/or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. In addition, competitors may reduce prices to customers and seek to obtain our customers through cost-cutting and other measures. To the extent these companies compete effectively with us, our business could be adversely affected by extended sales cycles, fewer sales, and lower prices, revenue and margins. Under the terms of our customer contracts for our hosted solutions, once the contract period expires, a customer may terminate our services with little or no notice. Our customer contracts for our hosted solutions typically provide for a contract period of one, two or three years. Under the terms of a typical contract, a customer will often be subject to a termination fee if it chooses to terminate the contract before the contract period expires. Once the contract period has expired, and unless a customer has executed a new contract, the terms of the contract will remain in force on a month-to-month basis, allowing the customer to terminate the contract by giving very short notice and without incurring any termination fee. The termination of a significant number of customer contracts or customer contracts providing a material portion of our revenues, could cause our business to suffer and adversely affect our financial results. Our business is subject to the risks associated with international operations. We recently began offering our products and services in the United Kingdom and Europe, and we have operations in India. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations. We have limited experience operating in these foreign jurisdictions. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries), the enactment of new laws affecting our activities, government regulation of our activities, and changes in the value of the United States dollar relative to the local currency in which our products are sold and our goods and services are purchased. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and our stock price may decline if we do not meet the expectations of investors and analysts. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: · changes in the market for MRM solutions; · delays in market acceptance or implementation of our solutions by customers; · changes in length of sales cycles of, or demand by, our customers for existing and additional solutions; · changes in the productivity of our distribution channels; · introduction of new solutions by us or our competitors; · changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors or suppliers; · changes in our mix of sources of revenues; · general economic and political conditions; 14 · wireless networks, positioning systems and Internet infrastructure owned and controlled by others; and · any need to migrate to new wireless networks, which could cause our solutions to be incompatible with new wireless networks or become out of date. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectation of future revenues. Additionally, a substantial portion of our expenses is relatively fixed. As a result, any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. We believe period-to-period comparisons of our revenue levels and operating results are not meaningful. You should not rely on our quarterly revenues and operating results to predict our future performance. Our operating results have been, and in some future quarters our operating results may be, below the expectations of public market analysts and investors and, as a result, the price of our common stock may fall. Our success depends upon our ability to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions. If we cannot deliver the features and functionality our customers demand, we will be unable to retain or attract new customers. If we are unable to develop new solutions, are unable to enhance and improve our solutions successfully in a timely manner, or fail to position and/or price our solutions to meet market demand, we may not attract new customers, existing customers may not expand their use of our solutions, and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If our enhancements to existing solutions do not deliver the functionality that our customer base demands, our customers may choose not to renew their agreements with us when they reach the end of their initial contract periods, and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. If we cannot effectively deploy, maintain and enhance our solutions, our revenues may decrease, we may not be able to recover our costs, and our competitive position may be harmed. If one or more of the agreements we have with wireless communications providers is terminated and as a result, we are unable to offer our solutions to customers within a wireless communications provider’s coverage area, we may be unable to deliver our solutions, we may lose customers, and our revenues could decrease. Our existing agreements with wireless communications providers may, in some cases be terminated immediately upon the occurrence of certain conditions or with prior written notice. If one or more of our wireless communications providers decides to terminate or not to renew its contract with us, we may incur additional costs relating to obtaining alternate coverage from another wireless communications provider outside of its primary coverage area, or we may be unable to replace the coverage at all, causing a complete loss of services to our customers in that coverage area. We have a history of losses, have only recently become profitable and may not sustain or increase profitability in the future. We have only recently become profitable and may not sustain or increase profitability in the future. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $78.4 million. To sustain profitability, we will need to generate significant revenues to offset our cost of revenues and our sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. We may not achieve or sustain our revenue or profit goals and may incur losses in the future. Changes such as increases in our pricing for solutions or the pricing of competing solutions may harm our ability to increase sales of our solutions to new and existing customers. If we are not able to expand our customer base and increase our revenue from new and existing customers, we may be unprofitable. 15 We may establish alliances or acquire technologies or companies in the future, which could result in the dilution of our stockholders and disruption of our business, which could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. We are continually evaluating business alliances and external investments in technologies related to our business. Acquisitions of companies, divisions of companies, businesses or products and strategic alliances entail numerous risks, any of which could materially harm our business in several ways, including: · diversion of management’s attention from our core business objectives and other business concerns; · failure to integrate efficiently businesses or technologies acquired in the future with our pre-existing business or technologies; · potential loss of key employees from either our pre-existing business or the acquired business; · dilution of our existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities; and · assumption of liabilities of the acquired company. Some or all of these problems may result from current or future alliances, acquisitions or investments. Furthermore, we may not realize any value from these alliances, acquisitions or investments. We depend on a limited number of third parties to manufacture and supply certain components of our solutions. We rely on a limited number of sole suppliers for certain components of our solutions. We do not have long-term agreements with these suppliers. If these parties do not perform their obligations, or if they cease to supply the components needed for our solutions, we may be unable to find other suppliers and our business would be seriously harmed. We cannot be sure that alternative sources for these components will be available when needed, or if available, that these components will be available on commercially reasonable terms. These sole suppliers include Motorola, which supplies microcontrollers for use in our Internet Location Manager and Micronet, which supplies our iDT. It is our practice to attempt to maintain no more than a three to nine month supply of microcontrollers, iDT devices and other components and devices needed for our solutions. Although we believe that we have sufficient quantities of such components and devices to last the next three to nine months, if our agreements with these or other suppliers and manufacturers are terminated or expire, if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of these products or components critical for our solutions, if the quality of these products or components is inadequate, or if the terms for supply of these products or components become commercially unreasonable, our search for additional or alternate suppliers and manufacturers could result in significant delays, added expense and our inability to maintain or expand our customer base. Any of these events could require us to take unforeseen actions or devote additional resources to provide our products and services and could harm our ability to compete effectively. A disruption of our services or of our software applications due to accidental or intentional security breaches may harm our reputation, cause a loss of revenues and increase our expenses. Unauthorized access, computer viruses and other accidental or intentional actions could disrupt our information systems or communications networks or could adversely impact the functionality and security of our software products. We expect to incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches and to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Currently, the wireless transmission of our customers’ proprietary information is not protected by encryption technology. If a third party were to misappropriate our customers’ proprietary information or adversely impact the operations of our customers, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could seriously harm our revenues and result in the loss of customers. 16 System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in liability claims. Any disruption to our services, information systems or communications networks or those of third parties could result in the inability of our customers to receive our services for an indeterminate period of time. Our hosted solutions and related operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems at data centers located in Ashburn, Virginia and Redwood City, California, and our network operations center in Fremont, California. The facilities in California are in or near earthquake fault zones. Our services may not function properly and we may not be able to adequately support and maintain our software products if our systems fail, if there is an interruption in the supply of power, or if there is an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or an act of war or terrorism. Within each of our data centers, we have fully redundant systems; however, in the event of a system or network failure, the process of shifting access to customer data from one data center to the other would be performed manually, and could result in a further disruption to our services and our ability to adequately support and maintain our software products. Any disruption to our services could cause us to lose customers or revenue, or face litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and could distract management from operating our business. Our success and ability to compete depend upon our ability to secure and protect patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights. Our success and ability to compete depend on our ability to protect our proprietary rights to the technologies used to implement and operate our solutions in the United States, the United Kingdom and in other countries. In the event that a third party breaches the confidentiality provisions or other obligations in one or more of our agreements or misappropriates or infringes our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights licensed to us by third parties, our business could be seriously harmed. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality and other contractual provisions and agreements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, which afford us only limited protection. Third parties may independently discover or invent competing technologies or reverse engineer our trade secrets, software or other technology. Furthermore, laws in some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, the measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate. Claims that we infringe third-party proprietary rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to provide our solutions. Third parties may claim that our current or future solutions infringe their proprietary rights or assert other claims against us. As the number of entrants into our market increases, the possibility of an intellectual property or other claim against us grows. Any intellectual property or other claim, with or without merit, would be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management’s attention from our core business. As a result of such a dispute, we may have to pay damages, incur substantial legal fees, develop costly non-infringing technology, if possible, or enter into license agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any of these results would increase our expenses and could decrease the functionality of our solutions, which would make our solutions less attractive to our current or potential customers. We have agreed in some of our agreements, and may agree in the future, to indemnify other parties for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the proprietary rights of third parties. If our customers do not have access to sufficient capacity on reliable wireless networks, we may be unable to deliver our services, our customers’ satisfaction could decline and our revenues could decrease. Part of our ability to grow and maintain profitability depends on the ability of wireless carriers to provide sufficient network capacity, reliability and security to our customers. Even where wireless carriers provide coverage to entire metropolitan areas, there are occasional lapses in coverage, for example due to 17 tunnels blocking the transmission of data to and from wireless modems used with our solutions. These effects could make our services less reliable and less useful, and customer satisfaction could suffer. We depend on GPS technology owned and controlled by others. If we do not have continued access to GPS technology or satellites, we will be unable to deliver a majority of our solutions and revenues will decrease. A majority of our solutions rely on signals from GPS satellites built and maintained by the United States Department of Defense. GPS satellites and their ground support systems are subject to electronic and mechanical failures and sabotage. If one or more satellites malfunction, there could be a substantial delay before they are repaired or replaced, if at all, our products and services may cease to function, and customer satisfaction would suffer. In addition, the United States government could decide to discontinue operation and maintenance of GPS satellites or to charge for the use of GPS. Furthermore, because of ever-increasing commercial applications of GPS and international political unrest, United States government agencies may become increasingly involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of GPS signals in the future. If factors such as the foregoing affect GPS, for example by affecting the availability, quality, accuracy or pricing of GPS technology, our business will suffer. Defects or errors in our solutions could result in the cancellation of or delays in the implementation of our solutions, which would damage our reputation and harm our financial condition. We must develop our solutions quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing MRM market. Solutions that address this market are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are introduced. We may be forced to delay commercial releases of new solutions or updated versions of existing solutions until such errors or defects are corrected, and in some cases, we may need to implement enhancements to correct errors that were not detected until after deployment of our solutions. Even after testing and release, our solutions may not be free from errors or defects, which could result in the cancellation or disruption of our services or dissatisfaction of customers. In some cases, customers may terminate their agreements with us without penalty if the solution we have provided does not meet the specifications agreed upon by the parties. Such contract terminations or customer dissatisfaction would damage our reputation and result in lost revenues, diverted development resources, and increased support and warranty costs. The production or reporting of inaccurate information could cause the loss of customers and expose us to legal liability. The accurate production and reporting of information is critical to our customers’ businesses. If we fail to accurately produce and report information, we could lose customers, our reputation and ability to attract new customers could be harmed, and we could be exposed to legal liability. We may not have insurance adequate to cover losses we may incur as a result of these inaccuracies. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and expand our sales channels. To increase our market awareness, customer base and revenues, we need to expand our direct and indirect sales operations. There is strong competition for qualified sales personnel, and we may not be able to attract or retain sufficient new sales personnel to expand our operations. New sales personnel require training, and it takes time for them to achieve full productivity, if at all. In addition, we believe that our success is dependent on the expansion of our indirect distribution channels, including our relationships with wireless carriers, independent sales agents and resellers. These sales channel alliances require training in selling our solutions and it will take time for these alliances to achieve productivity, if at all. We may not be able to establish relationships with additional distributors on a timely basis, or at all. Our independent sales agents and resellers, many of which are not engaged with us on an exclusive basis, may not devote adequate resources to promoting and selling our solutions. 18 We depend on recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, and our inability to do so may result in a loss in sales, impair our ability to effectively manage our operations or impair our ability to develop and support our solutions. Because of the technical nature of our solutions and the market in which we compete, our success depends on the continued services of our current executive officers and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with expertise in wireless communications, GPS technologies, hosted software applications, transaction processing and the Internet. Competitors and others have recruited our employees in the past and may attempt to do so in the future. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training, which requires significant resources and management attention. Even if we invest significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in our efforts. From time to time, we are or may be subject to litigation that could result in significant costs to us. From time to time, we are or may be subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business relating to any number or type of claims, including claims for damages related to errors and malfunctions of our products and services or their deployment. A securities, product liability, breach of contract, or other claim could seriously harm our business because of the costs of defending the lawsuit, diversion of employees’ time and attention, and potential damage to our reputation. Some of our agreements with customers, suppliers and other third parties contain provisions designed to limit exposure to potential claims. Limitation of liability provisions contained in our agreements may not be enforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. As a result, we could be required to pay substantial amounts of damages in settlement or upon the determination of any of these types of claims. Although we carry general liability and directors and officers insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liabilities that may be imposed. Government regulations and standards could subject us to increased regulation, increase our costs of operations or reduce our opportunities to earn revenue. In addition to regulations applicable to businesses in general, we may also be subject to direct regulation by United States governmental agencies, including the Federal Communications Commission, Department of Defense, Department of Commerce or the State Department. These regulations may impose licensing requirements, privacy safeguards relating to certain subscriber information, or safety standards, for example with respect to human exposure to electromagnetic radiation and signal leakage. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals under consideration by federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental organizations may lead to laws or regulations concerning various aspects of the Internet, wireless communications and GPS technology, including on-line content, user privacy, taxation, access charges and liability for third-party activities. Additionally, it is uncertain how existing laws governing issues such as taxation on the use of wireless networks, intellectual property, libel, user privacy and property ownership will be applied to our solutions. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws may expose us to significant liabilities and additional operational requirements, which could decrease the demand for our solutions and increase our cost of doing business. Wireless communications providers who supply us with airtime are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission, and regulations that affect them could also increase our costs or limit our ability to provide our solutions. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in decreased revenues, increased product costs and operating expenses. We have customers, suppliers and manufacturers that are located outside the United States. Some transactions relating to supply and development agreements may be conducted in currencies other than the United States dollar, and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar 19 could cause us to incur currency exchange costs. In addition, some of our transactions denominated in United States dollars may be subject to currency exchange rate risk. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. Should there be a sustained increase in average exchange rates for the local currencies in these countries, our suppliers and manufacturers may request a price increase at the end of the contract period. Geopolitical, economic and military conditions, including terrorist attacks and other acts of war, may materially and adversely affect the markets on which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war, and any response to them, may lead to armed hostilities and such developments would likely cause instability in financial markets. Armed hostilities and terrorism may directly impact our facilities, personnel and operations which are located in the United States, the United Kingdom and India, as well as those of our customers and suppliers. Furthermore, severe terrorist attacks or acts of war may result in temporary halts of commercial activity in the affected regions, and may result in reduced demand for our solutions. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. As of February 15, 2006, a limited number of stockholders own approximately 29% of our stock and may act, or prevent certain types of corporate actions, to the detriment of other stockholders. Our directors, officers and greater than 5% stockholders own, as of February 15, 2006, approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders may, if they act together, exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of a majority of the directors and the determination of significant corporate actions. This concentration could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that could otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and state law contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. We have adopted a certificate of incorporation and bylaws, which in addition to state law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · establishing a classified board in which only a portion of the total board members will be elected at each annual meeting; · authorizing the board to issue preferred stock; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We have adopted a certificate of incorporation that permits our board to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which means that our board could issue shares with special voting rights or other provisions that could deter a takeover. In addition to delaying or preventing an acquisition, the issuance of a substantial number of shares of preferred stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock and dilute existing stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 