ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements discuss our expectations, beliefs or views regarding our future operations, future financial performance, or financial or other trends in our business or markets. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Often, they include the words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “project,” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may.” The information contained in such forward-looking statements is based on current information and assumptions about future events over which we do not have control and our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our financial condition or actual operating results in the future to differ significantly from our expected financial condition or operating results that are set forth in those forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: The United States is currently experiencing a severe economic recession and unprecedented credit crisis that have adversely affected the banking and financial services industry in general, and our business and financial performance, in particular, and have created substantial uncertainties and risks for our business and future financial performance The United States is experiencing a severe economic recession, which is reported to have begun at the end of 2007 and since the latter half of 2008 has been creating wide ranging consequences and difficulties for the banking and financial services industry, in particular, and the economy in general. The recession began with dramatic declines in the housing market, which resulted in decreasing home prices and increasing loan delinquencies and foreclosures that led to significant write-downs of the assets and an erosion of the capital of a large number of lending and other financial institutions. As a result, several very large and prominent banking and financial organizations, such as Merrill Lynch, Bear Stearns, Wachovia Bank and Washington Mutual had to seek merger partners to survive and others, such as Lehman Bros. and Indy Mac Bank, failed and went out of business, which led to concerns over the stability and viability of the financial markets. In an effort to preserve their capital and avoid increased losses, banks and other lending institutions severely tightened their credit standards and significantly reduced their lending activities, creating a credit crisis that led to a contraction of the economy, significant increases in unemployment and significant reductions in business and consumer spending. As a result, like many other banks, we experienced increases in loan delinquencies and defaults, not only in our real estate, but also in our commercial loan portfolios that resulted in significant increases in loan losses in 2008. Those loan losses, coupled with the expectation that economic and market conditions will worsen for at least the first six months of 2009 and uncertainties about the ultimate duration and severity of the economic recession, led us (and many other banks) to significantly increase loan loss reserves by charges to income that caused us to incur a net loss of $12.0 million, or $1.14 per diluted share, in 2008. As a result of these conditions and the likelihood that economic and market conditions will worsen for at least the first six months of 2009, we face a number of risks that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition in the future, including the following: • If economic and market conditions do not improve in 2009, we could incur additional loan losses, and experience an increase in foreclosures of real properties collateralizing loans that we have made that would require us to set aside reserves for possible declines in the value of or the costs of maintaining those properties, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cause us to incur operating losses in 2009. • Due to the uncertainties about economic conditions in 2009, there is an increased risk that the judgments that we might make in estimating loan losses that may be inherent in our loan portfolio and in establishing loan loss reserves will prove to be incorrect, requiring us to set aside additional reserves that would adversely affect our results of operation, as occurred in 2008. • Possible further declines in economic activity in the United States, generally, and in our markets, in particular, due to lack of business and consumer spending and increased unemployment could result in reductions in loan demand and a further tightening of credit that would lead to reductions in our interest income, net interest income and margins. • Adverse economic conditions, such as a continued tightening of available business and consumer credit and continued high unemployment, could lead customers to withdraw funds from their deposit accounts with us to meet their operating or living expenses, which could reduce our liquidity and, therefore, the funds we would have available for lending, as a result of which our interest income could decline, possibly significantly, and our costs of funds could increase, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and financial condition. • In response to the causes of the credit and foreclosure crises and the economic recession, the federal government may increase regulation of and impose new restrictions on banks and other financial institutions, which would increase our costs of doing business and limit our ability to pursue business and growth opportunities. • We, as well as all other federally insured banks, may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums to increase the FDIC’s insurance fund, which is being depleted by bank failures that have increased as a result of the credit crisis and economic recession. • There is no assurance that the enactment of recent federal legislation, such as EESA and the ARRA, and the implementation of regulatory programs and initiatives, such as the TARP CPP program, which are designed to address the difficult market and economic conditions that we are experiencing, will prove to be successful in curtailing the recession and providing the stimulus and resources needed to improve the economy. In addition, the impact of this legislation and these regulatory initiatives on the financial markets is uncertain and if they fail to lead to improvements in economic and market conditions, the recession could worsen and thereby adversely affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of our securities. • If we experience increased losses in 2009 due to these economic and market conditions, our regulatory capital and capital ratios could be reduced, requiring us to seek additional capital through sales of equity securities. If economic and market conditions do not improve, there is no assurance that we will succeed in raising additional equity capital, if needed, and any sales of equity securities that we might make could be dilutive of the financial and equity interests of our existing shareholders. If it becomes necessary, but we are unable to raise additional capital, we could be forced to sell some of our assets in order to prevent a decline in our capital ratios. However, there is no assurance that we would succeed in selling assets and we could incur losses on those asset sales. Without an improvement in economic conditions, our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Although the Company and the Bank remain well capitalized and have not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of the economic recession and instability in the banking and financial markets, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. In addition, the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers are more severely impacted by the economic recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the state of California, which has been experiencing higher unemployment and higher foreclosure rates than other parts of the country. In addition, the severity and duration of the economic recession is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. We could incur losses on the loans we make There has been a significant slowdown in the housing market and a significant increase in real estate loan foreclosures in portions of Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside and San Diego counties of California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of unsold homes and increases in unemployment and a resulting loss of confidence about the future among businesses and consumers that have combined to adversely affect business and consumer spending. These conditions have led to increased loan defaults in 2008. A continuing deterioration in the real estate market and a continuation or worsening of the economic recession could result in additional loan charge-offs and increases in the provisions for loan losses in the future, which could cause us to incur additional losses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and capital. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our lending and other activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general, including a decrease in the level of business activity due to the market downturn or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on our operations. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow, or raise additional equity capital, could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a continued severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, particularly if the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. We face intense competition from other banks and financial institutions that could hurt our business We conduct our business operations in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by a relatively small number of large multi-state, as well as large in-state, banks with operations and offices covering wide geographical areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services as well as products and services that we do not offer. The larger banks, and some of those other financial institutions, have greater resources that enable them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. Some of these banks and institutions also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits that enable them to attract larger clients, and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, particularly with respect to attracting loans and deposits. Increased competition may prevent us (i) from achieving increases, or could even result in decreases, in our loan volume or deposit balances, or (ii) from increasing interest rates on loans or reducing interest rates we pay to attract or retain deposits, either or both of which could cause a decline in our interest income or an increase in our interest expense, that could lead to reductions in our net interest income and earnings. Adverse changes in economic conditions in Southern California could disproportionately harm our business The large majority of our customers and the properties securing a large proportion of our loans are located in Southern California. A continued downturn in economic conditions or the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes or fires, which are more common in Southern California than in other parts of the country, could harm our business by: • reducing loan demand which, in turn, would lead to reduced net interest margins and net interest income; • adversely affecting the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to make additional provisions for possible loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our operating results; and • causing reductions in real property values that, due to our reliance on real property to secure many of our loans, could make it more difficult for us to prevent losses from being incurred on non-performing loans through the sale of such real properties. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest we earn on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread and, in turn, our profitability. In addition, loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates. Rising interest rates, generally, are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while lower interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may decline and in falling interest rate environments, loan repayment rates may increase. Also, in a rising interest rate environment, we may need to accelerate the pace of rate increases on our deposit accounts as compared to the pace of future increases in short-term market rates. Accordingly, changes in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality and loan origination volume. Government regulations may impair our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and other customers and not shareholders, whose respective interests will often differ. The regulatory agencies have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking institutions, even if those restrictions would adversely affect the ability of the banking institution to expand its business or pay cash dividends, or result in increases in its costs of doing business or hinder its ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or banks or financial service organizations that are less regulated. Additionally, due to the complex and technical nature of many of the government regulations to which banking organizations are subject, inadvertent violations of those regulations may occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations. If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. The loss of key personnel could hurt our financial performance Our success depends to a great extent on the continued availability of our existing management and, in particular, on Raymond E. Dellerba, our President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, our executive officers provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is partially based. As a result, the loss of the services of any of these officers could harm our ability to implement our business strategy or our future operating results. Expansion of our banking franchise might not achieve expected growth or increases in profitability and may adversely affect our operating results We have grown substantially in the past nine years by (i) opening new financial centers in population centers, and (ii) adding banking professionals at our existing financial centers, with the objective of attracting additional customers including, in particular, small to medium size businesses, that will add to our profitability. We intend to continue that growth strategy. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in achieving this objective. Implementation of this strategy will require us to incur expenses in establishing new financial centers or adding banking professionals, long before we are able to attract, and with no assurance that we will succeed in attracting, a sufficient number of new customers that will enable us to generate the revenues needed to increase our profitability. As a result, our earnings could decline if we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategy. Our computer and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use to provide automated and internet banking services could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events and from security breaches. Any of those occurrences could result in damage to or a failure of our computer systems that could cause an interruption in our banking services and, therefore, harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches that could result in the theft of confidential customer information could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title Due to the current economic recession, the resulting financial difficulties encountered by many borrowers and the declines in the market values and in the demand for real properties, during 2008 we had to initiate foreclosure proceedings with respect to and take title to an increased number of real properties that had collateralized loans which had become nonperforming. Moreover, if the economic recession worsens, we may have to foreclose and take title to additional real properties in 2009. As a result, we could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur costs, which could be substantial, with respect to these properties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with environmental contamination at such properties. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities on costs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees Threats to our reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. 19 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock markets are subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes generally, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results or financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; or • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us. The stock market and, in particular, the market the stock of financial institutions, has experienced significant volatility recently as a result of (i) the financial difficulties encountered by a number of very large and prominent banking institutions, such as Citigroup and Bank of America, which has adversely affected the stock prices of numerous banks, including those that have been able to weather the economic recession, and (ii) concerns and a lack of confidence among investors that economic and market conditions will improve. As a result, the market price of our common stock was volatile and declined significantly during 2008, as was the case with a large number of other banks, including most of our competitors. In addition, the trading prices of our common stock are affected by a number of factors, including our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, but some of which are outside of our control, such as economic conditions generally and changes in the confidence about economic conditions among businesses and consumers. In particular, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, that volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels, largely due to the worsening of the economic recession and uncertainties with respect to its ultimate duration and severity. As a result, we could experience a further decline in our stock price during 2009, which could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. We may face other risks From time to time, other risks can arise with respect to our business and/or financial results which we will report in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For further discussion of risks that can affect our financial performance or financial condition, also see “Item 7. — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and the Results of Operations” below in this Report. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements contained in this Report, except as may be required by law or by NASDAQ. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 