D. Risk Factors There is a high degree of risk associated with our company and business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, revenues, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Our Markets The markets we target are highly cyclical and we cannot predict the cycles in these markets. Also, these markets are negatively affected by periods of economic downturns or customer capacity adjustments. The semiconductor fabrication and packaging industry as well as the printed circuit board and the integrated circuit substrate industries are cyclical. During the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009 our markets experienced a significant downturn, as a result of the severe global economic recession and industry overcapacity. During the second half of 2009, through 2010 and until the end of the third quarter of 2011, we experienced growth due to the increased capacity and demand in the markets in which we operate. 2012 and 2013 were volatile years which were characterized in a relatively slow pace of business, with moderate improvement towards the second half of 2013 which we anticipate will continue into the first or second quarter of 2014. The occurrences of cyclical downturns in our industries are very difficult to predict. In the event of a reduction in demand we may have limited ability to reduce expenses without harming our ability to grow in response to demand when our markets recover and demand increases again. For example, in order to maintain such ability, we are required to incur significant ongoing expenditures related to engineering, research and development and worldwide customer service and support operations. Accordingly, we may incur losses during downturns or capacity adjustments affecting the markets we serve. The markets we serve are highly competitive. There are dominant market participants in each of the markets in which we operate with greater resources, all of which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability and negatively affect our cash flow. Competition in the markets we serve is intense. During market downturns competition is intensified due to the reduced demand for the products that we manufacture. When competitors respond to declining demand by offering discounts, free evaluation machines or more favorable credit terms, we may need to implement some or all of the same methods in order to maintain our market position. These could mean lower prices for our products and a corresponding reduction in our gross margin, as well as more favorable payment terms to our customers and a corresponding decline in cash flow. If we have to lower prices to remain competitive and are unable to reduce our costs to offset price reductions or are unable to introduce new, higher performance products with higher prices, our operating results may be adversely affected. If we have to implement more favorable payment terms to our customers, our cash flow may be adversely affected. In the back end and front end markets of the semiconductor industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant for automated optical inspection, or AOI, systems is Rudolph Technologies Inc., with additional competitors including KLA-Tencor Corporation, Topcon Corporation, Toray Industries, Inc., Nidec Tosok Corporation and Hitachi Ltd. In the printed circuit board and the integrated circuit substrate industries, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is Orbotech Ltd., with additional competitors including Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Company, Lloyd-Doyle Limited, Gigavis Co. Ltd., Shirai Electronics Industrial Co. Ltd., ATI Electronics Pty Ltd. and local AOI vendors in China and Taiwan such as Machvision Inc., Optima Ltd., Ovitech and Jointpower Technology Co,. Ltd. In addition, there is a market for used AOI systems for printed circuit board manufacturers, which may reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices in certain cases. 7 Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources and offer a broader range of products and services. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, develop additional or superior products, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. We may experience fluctuations in our future operating results, making it difficult to predict future results. Our revenues and net income (loss), in any particular period may be lower (or greater) than revenues and net income (loss), in a preceding or comparable period. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our earnings. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may be meaningless, and you should not rely on them as indications of our future performance. Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: · customer budget cycles and installation schedules; · product introductions and the penetration period of new products; · the size, timing and shipment of substantial orders; · timing of evaluation and qualification of our products by new customers; · lack of visibility / low levels of backlog from the preceding quarter; · product mixes; · rapid shifts in industry capacity; · pricing of our products; · timing of new product upgrades or enhancements; · interest and exchange rates; · possible impairment of goodwill and other assets; and · legal expenses and the impact of legal actions. We have incurred major losses in past years and may not sustain profitable operations in the future. Moreover, if our business deteriorates, we could face liquidity problems. In 2013 we recorded net income of $7,000 after recording net income of $3,000, $5.4 million and $2.8 million in 2012, 2011and 2010, respectively. Despite having had net income in 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred a net loss of $11.8 million in 2009 and net losses in certain prior years. We may not be able to achieve or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to generate consistent profitability could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. In 2013 our operations provided $4.7 million in cash. In 2012 and 2011 our operations respectively provided $4.0 million and $9.8 million in cash. On December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $16.5 million, in addition to which we had $6 million in short-term deposits. We may use cash in our operations during 2014 for working capital and investment activities and may continue to incur significant additional legal expenses and other costs associated with certain patent infringement actions all of which may reduce our available cash resources and harm our operations. See below “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us. Our existing patent infringement claims expose us to costs and risks". 8 If available liquidity is not sufficient to meet our operating and other obligations as they come due, our plans include pursuing additional financing arrangements from banks or others, the availability and terms of which are not assured, or further reducing expenditures as necessary to meet our cash requirements. We have expanded and may attempt to further expand our activity in the markets in which we operate through merger and acquisition (M&A) activity. Such activity has resulted and may further result in operating difficulties, losses and other adverse consequences. In 2009, we invested in the development of two potential new growth engines by acquiring the assets and certain liabilities of Printar Ltd. (“Printar”) and the entire share capital of SELA – Semiconductor Engineering Laboratories Ltd. (“Sela”), both Israeli companies (see below in Item 4.B - Business Overview – "Our Business"). We may, in the future, continue to acquire businesses and assets. Our existing operations, as well as any future acquired businesses or assets, could involve numerous risks, including: post-merger integration difficulties; diversion of management's attention from our core business and operations; failure to estimate the acquired businesses’ future performance and failure to execute on such expectations; failure to launch new products to our existing or new markets; inaccurate evaluation of expected competition and/or the fair value of certain assets acquired, liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities; and the loss of key employees of the acquired operations. As of the fourth quarter of 2013 the Company had elected to discontinue R&D efforts with respect to Sela's core product, the TEM sample preparation tool otherwise referred to as the Xact product line and recorded inventory and fixed asset write-offs of $3.9 million, and we are currently investing substantial resources in the final development of our 3D inkjet system (see below in "Our 3D Inkjet System is currently undergoing testing at a selected customer site. The results of this testing phase as well as our ability to subsequently pursue successful commercialization could have a material effect on our plans to further expand our business") for the printed circuit boards industry which originated in part from the acquisition of Printar. In addition, principally as a result of acquisition activity, our future results of operations may be influenced by the possibility of impairment charges being incurred as a result of decline in value of goodwill and other intangible assets, ongoing amortization of intangible assets acquired and financing expenses due to re-evaluation of contingent liabilities and other liabilities assumed presented at fair value (see also in Item 5 below - “Critical Accounting Policies“). In 2013 we recorded an impairment of intangible assets of $1.6 million related to the Sela acquisition and an additional impairment of technology in the amount of $52 thousand related to the Printar acquisition. In 2012 we recorded an impairment of goodwill and in process research and development in the amounts of $575,000 and $957,000, respectively, related to the Printar acquisition and an additional impairment of goodwill in the amount of $1.5 million related to the Sela acquisition (see Note 9– Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net, of the financial statements). Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, a decrease in our cash resources, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other well-established and well-capitalized entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. We cannot be certain that any future acquisition will be successful. If the operation of the business of any acquisition disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. Even if we successfully integrate the acquired businesses with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of these acquisitions as a result of, for example, performances below expectations, changes in economic or market conditions and the entry of stronger competitors or new technologies. 9 Our 3D Inkjet System is currently undergoing testing at a selected customer site. The results of this testing phase as well as our ability to subsequently pursue successful commercialization could have a material effect on our plans to further expand our business. We are at the final development phase of our 3D functional inkjet system which utilizes and applies specially designed solder mask ink designed to replace conventional coating, drying, exposure and development processes currently used in printed circuit boards manufacturing industry for applying solder mask ink ("3D Inkjet System"). We are currently conducting testing in a selected customer’s production environment. If we find that the results of these testing are not adequate for the commercialization of the 3D Inkjet System, we may be required to invest additional resources in research and development which may delay our time to market or require us to reexamine the feasibility of this project in its entirety. Even If we do determine that our 3D Inkjet System is suitable for commercialization, we cannot predict the extent of market penetration of this new technology. Also, the revenues generated may not represent a fair return on the investment as a result of, for example, pricing and market conditions, post commercialization system failures or subsequent slow demand and corresponding inventory write offs. A longer sales process for new products may increase our costs and delay time to market of our products, both of which may negatively impact our revenues, results of operations, cash flow and may result in inventory write-offs. Our sales process to new and existing customers usually involves: demonstrations and testing against industry benchmarks in our sales centers; sales and technical presentations and presentations regarding our products’ competitive advantages; and installation of the systems at the customer’s site for side-by-side competitive evaluations for a period of approximately six months. More evaluation time is devoted during the initial penetration period for several new products such as our semiconductor inspection and metrology systems, and for new customers in new markets, since these circumstances usually require qualification of the systems by the customers and engineering efforts to fix errors, customize tasks and add new features. Considering the above factors, the length of time until we recognize revenue can vary and affect our revenues, cash flow and results of operations. The long sales process may cause an increase in inventory levels and a risk for inventory write downs and write-offs; for more details regarding recent inventory write downs and write-offs see Item 5.A – Operating Results – Critical Accounting Policies – Valuation of Inventory. We operate an international sales and manufacturing organization. A substantial majority of our sales has been to manufacturers in the Asia Pacific region. The concentration of our sales and other resources within a particular geographical region subjects us to additional risks that could impede our plans for expansion and growth. The majority of our sales are in the Asia Pacific region. In 2013, our sales in the Asia Pacific region accounted for approximately 78% of our total revenues, of which approximately 30% of our total revenues were from sales in China and Hong Kong, 18% from sales in Korea and 17% from sales in Taiwan. In addition, parts of the manufacturing and assembly of our AOI systems for the printed circuit boards industry are made in our manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China. A number of Asian countries have experienced or could experience political and economic instability. For example, Taiwan and China have had a number of disputes, as have North and South Korea. Changes in local legislation, changes in governmental controls and regulations, changes in tariffs and taxes, trade restrictions, a downturn in economic or financial conditions, political instability, an outbreak of hostilities or other political upheaval, as well as any further extraordinary events having an adverse effect on the economy or business environment in this region, would likely harm the operations of our customers in these countries, may cause a significant decline in our future revenues and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. These general risks are heightened in China, where the nature of the economy and the legal parameters are rapidly evolving and where foreign companies may face cultural obstacles. 10 Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us. Our existing patent infringement claims expose us to costs and risks. Third parties, including our competitor August Technology Corporation’s (today Rudolph Technologies Inc.), have asserted claims, and may assert additional claims in the future, that we have violated their patents or that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims against us, even if without merit, could lead to protracted litigation, could be costly to defend and could divert management’s attention from our business. Successful claims against us could limit our ability to sell products in certain jurisdictions; see in Item 8.A – "Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information"- "Legal Proceedings" below. Without derogating from the generality of the above, we cannot guarantee that we will ultimately prevail against Rudolph Technologies Inc. patent infringement claims. If Rudolph were to succeed with its infringement actions, it could have a negative impact on our business by impairing our ability to sell some of our AOI systems in the United States and could result in monetary damages being assessed against us which will affect our profitability and liquidity. Rudolph’s actions have already subjected, and may continue to subject, us to significant legal and other defense costs, which would impact our cash resources and profitability. In the event that we do not prevail against these claims, we may also be liable for court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the claimants in these litigations (see Item 8.A –"Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information"- "Legal Proceedings"- "Litigation with Rudolph Technologies Inc."). Technology in the markets in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to keep pace with these changes or with emerging industry standards and may incur substantial costs as a result thereof. This could result in a loss of revenues or adversely affect our profits. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and new product introductions. Potential new technologies and improvements to existing production equipment and methods could improve production yields, thereby reducing the need to use our AOI systems or our sample preparation systems in these industries. In addition, new technologies could emerge as alternatives to using our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new technologies for the markets in which we operate. These products must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes, with products offered by our competitors or with emerging industry standards, our ability to attract new business and generate revenues may be damaged. We seek to expand our activity into unsaturated markets adjacent to our existing served markets, such as the inspection of silicon wafers at various steps during their manufacturing process inside the wafer fabrication facility. Technological developments in production processes and in process control may reduce the growth we anticipate in demand for inspection systems. If this happens, we may not be able to cover our investments in penetrating these markets, or will have to increase our R&D and marketing expense to adapt our products to such changes. Adopting new technologies may also result in material inventory write-offs which will adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier and/or subcontractor. If one or more of our third-party suppliers or subcontractors does not provide us with key components or subsystems, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, and we may incur substantial costs to obtain these components from alternate sources. While a portion of our manufacturing is performed in our production facilities in Israel and in China, we outsource some of our manufacturing processes to a contract manufacturer that is located in Israel ("Contract Manufacturer"). From time to time, we have experienced and may in the future experience delays in shipments from our Contract Manufacturer. In addition we rely on single source and limited source suppliers and subcontractors for a number of essential components and subsystems of our products. We do not have agreements with all of these suppliers and subcontractors for the continued supply of the components or subsystems they provide ("Key Suppliers"). 11 Although we believe that our Contract Manufacturer and Key Suppliers have sufficient economic incentive to perform our manufacturing and meet our supply needs, the resources devoted to these activities are not within our control, and we cannot assure you that manufacturing problems will not occur in the future. In addition, the operations of our Contract Manufacturer and Key Suppliers are not under our control, and may themselves in the future experience manufacturing problems, including inferior quality and insufficient quantities of components. These delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity could result in delays in deliveries of our products to our customers, which could subject us to penalties payable to our customers, increased warranty costs and possible cancellation of orders. If our Contract Manufacturer and Key Suppliers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or shortages in components required for manufacturing, our supply may be disrupted and we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers. We may be unable to secure alternate manufacturers that meet our needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. We may encounter difficulties in purchasing key components and subsystems, or overestimate our needs, to meet customer demand. In the current highly competitive business environment, our customers require us to fill orders within a very short period of time. Our products are complex and require essential components and subsystems that are produced by a number of suppliers and subcontractors. In order to meet our customers’ needs in the timeframe they require, we usually need to pre-order components and subsystems based on our forecasts of future orders, rather than on actual orders. We believe that we have sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on time, however our predictions may not correspond to our actual future needs and our suppliers and subcontractors cannot always supply such components and subsystems within a shorter than anticipated time frame. Our inability to anticipate rapid market changes may cause an increase of inventory which could result in material inventory write-offs as have been incurred in the past, or may alternately limit our ability to satisfy customer orders which could result in the loss of sales and could cause customers to seek products from our competitors. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively. We differentiate our products and technologies from those of our competitors by using our proprietary information for the development of our products. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how and intellectual property. These measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies and it may be possible for a third party, including a competitor, to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technologies without authorization or to develop similar technologies independently. Additionally, our products may be sold in countries, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S., European or Israeli laws. In addition, we have a manufacturing facility in China, in which we manufacture certain components and assemble most of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry, where the intellectual property laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, potential risk may be associated with the protection of our intellectual property which in turn may affect our competitive advantage. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in the prices of our products becoming less competitive or in additional expenses being recorded, and thus may have negative impact on our profitability. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our products' prices in most countries are denominated in dollars except for Europe and Japan and, as of 2011, part of our revenues from products in China. In those countries, if there is a significant devaluation in the local currency compared to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that local currency and may be less competitive. In addition, much of our service income is denominated in local currencies. If a larger number of our sales were to be denominated in currencies other than dollars, our reported revenue and earnings would be subject to a greater degree of foreign exchange fluctuations. 12 We generate most of our revenues from products in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our salary and operating expenses in NIS. As most of our revenues are denominated in dollars and as our financial results are reported in dollars, we believe that inflation and fluctuations in the NIS/dollar exchange rate have no material effect on our revenues. However, a major portion of the costs of our Israeli operations, such as personnel, subcontractors, materials and facility-related costs, are incurred in NIS. Therefore an increase in the NIS value relative to the dollar will increase our costs expressed in dollars (as it did in 2013), and a decrease in the NIS value relative to the dollar will decrease our costs expressed in dollars. In addition, as of 2011, part of our revenues from products in China is denominated in local currency. Most of the expenses and purchases in China are also denominated in local currency. As our financial results are reported in dollars, fluctuations in the Chinese Renminbi (CNY)/dollar exchange rate may affect our revenues and level of expenses. We may, from time to time, take various measures designed to reduce our exposure to these effects, but any such steps may be inadequate to protect us from currency rate fluctuations. Failure to protect adequately against currency rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may face risks of interruptions in our production capabilities. Our corporate headquarters is located in Migdal Ha’Emek, in the northern part of Israel. Any event affecting this site, including a natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue our ability to fulfill manufacturing demands and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business (see also “We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases a sole supplier and/or subcontractor” above and “Conducting business in Israel entails special risks” below). We also have a manufacturing facility in China, in which we manufacture certain components and assemble most of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry. Therefore, we may be influenced by changing events in China; for example, our manufacturing activity in China may suffer as a result of changes in China's geopolitical status or fluctuations in its economic stability. In addition, we may be exposed to sourcing risks, such as supply chain and business interruption issues. Any event affecting this site may disrupt our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. Our principal shareholder, Priortech Ltd., or Priortech, holds a controlling interest in us and will be able to exercise its control in ways that may be adverse to your interests. Priortech beneficially holds approximately 56% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Priortech has the power to control the outcome of certain matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of making it more difficult to obtain approval for a change in control of us. Messrs. Rafi Amit, Yotam Stern, David Kishon, Itzhak Krell (deceased)¸ Haim Langmas (deceased), Zehava Wineberg and Hanoch Feldstien ("Founding Members") are parties to a voting agreement dated March 26, 1992, governing inter-alia joint voting at Priortech's general meeting of the shareholders and the right of first refusal among themselves. As of January 31, 2014 the Founding Members or their heirs aggregately hold 35.8% of the voting power at Priortech's general meeting of the shareholders and as such may be deemed to control Priortech. Our relationship with Priortech may give rise to conflicts of interest. We purchase products from, or sell products to companies controlled by Priortech Ltd., our principal shareholder, directly or indirectly, or in which Priortech has substantial holdings, and act jointly with such companies with respect to governmental and administrative matters and the purchase from third parties of various products and services, which may create conflicts of interest. Despite our efforts to conduct ourselves by Israeli law procedural requirements, including regarding special board of directors, audit committee and in certain cases shareholder approvals for interested party transactions, we cannot be certain that the possible conflict of interest in any of these transactions and activities is fully eliminated. In addition, Mr. Rafi Amit acts as the Active Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company and nominee to assume Chief Executive Officer responsibilities, on a 75% of a full time position basis, as well as acting as Priortech’s Chairman of the Board of Directors and providing consulting and management services to Priortech on a 25% of a full time position basis. Mr. Yotam Stern who acts as one of our Directors, holds several other positions in the Priortech group including the position of Chief Executive Officer at Priortech and at P.C.B Technologies Ltd., an Israeli public company controlled by Priortech. For more details regarding our senior management arrangements, see Item 6 B below - "Compensation – Employment Agreements". 13 We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our continued growth and success significantly depend on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management and key employees. If our operations rapidly expand, we believe that we will need to promote and hire qualified engineering, administrative, operational, financial and marketing personnel. In particular, we may find it difficult to hire key personnel with the requisite knowledge of our business, products and technologies. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. During periods of economic growth, competition for qualified engineering and technical personnel is intense. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares being taxed at as ordinary income rates rather than capital gain rates, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions generally will apply to certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Based on an analysis of our assets and income, we believe that in 2013 we were not a PFIC. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2014. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors, including the relative value of our passive assets and our non-passive assets, our market capitalization and the amount and type of our gross income. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2014 or in any future taxable year. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and the related tax consequences, please see in Item 10.E below “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations– Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company". Our share price and trading volumes have demonstrated significant volatility in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Such share price volatility may cause additional exposure for securities class action litigation. Commencing November 22, 2013 through February 25, 2014, our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume increases of approximately sixty five times in average trading volume and approximately two and a half times in average share price compared to the average trading volume and share price applicable during January 1, 2013 through November 21, 2013. While we have no way to confirm the actual reasons behind such fluctuations, these market price and volume fluctuations may be attributable to market speculation concerning the potential of our 3D Inkjet System (see also "Our 3D Inkjet System is currently undergoing testing at a selected customer site. The results of this testing phase as well as our ability to subsequently pursue successful commercialization could have a material adverse effect on our plans to further expand our business" above). During the period from January 1, 2013 through February 25, 2014, the closing price of our ordinary shares ranged from $1.34 to $5.75 (See Item 9 A below- "Price History of Ordinary Shares"). Our ordinary shares may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as the following: · global economic conditions, which generally influence stock market prices and volume fluctuations; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors · quarterly variations in our operating results; 14 · market conditions relating to our customers’ industries; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, in particular, speculation concerning the potential of our 3D Inkjet System currently in select customer testing; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · announcements of significant claims or proceedings against us and developments in such proceedings or adverse decisions in pending litigation matters; · large block transactions in our ordinary shares; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, M&A transactions, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · additions or departures of our key personnel; and · future offerings or sales of our ordinary shares. Stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, political events or hostilities in Israel, the surrounding region or worldwide could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities, and one was brought against us. Although this claim was dismissed, we cannot assure that similar complaints would not be filed in the future. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. Our principal offices, sole research and development facility and one of our manufacturing facilities are located in the State of Israel. We depend on components imported from outside of Israel and almost all of our sales occur outside of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: · hostilities involving Israel; · the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; · a downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel; and · a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army. 15 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. In July 2006 there were extensive hostilities along Israel's northern border, with Lebanon, in proximity to where we are located, and during the past five years Israel was engaged in several armed conflicts in the Gaza Strip. None of the above had any material impact on our operations. Further, since the beginning of 2011 there has been political turmoil and outbreaks of violence throughout the Middle East, such as in neighboring Syria, some of which ended in a revolutionary change of governments, such as in neighboring Egypt and Libya. The effects of the aforementioned political turmoil are yet to unfold but contribute to the general atmosphere of instability in the region. In addition, the threat of Iran becoming armed with nuclear weapons, with all that it entails, has gradually intensified. Increased hostilities, current and future armed conflicts, further adverse developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies of those countries directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of our key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Some of our employees in Israel, including certain key employees, are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli army and are subject to being called up for reserve duty at any time. The absence of one or more of our officers and key employees for significant periods of time due to military service could be disruptive to our operations. The Israeli government programs and tax benefits in which we have participated in the past and in which we currently participate or from which we receive benefits require us to meet several conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our tax expenses. We benefit from certain Israeli government programs and tax benefits, particularly from tax exemptions, from the Approved Enterprise status of our manufacturing facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits or similar programs in the future, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, these tax benefits could be cancelled, and we could be required to refund those tax benefits already received, if any. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels, and our requests for tax exemption on income from our manufacturing facilities may not be approved. The government grants we received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products or to transfer technologies outside of Israel. From our inception through 2000, we received government grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (the “OCS”), for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. In March 2001, we commenced repayment of many of these grants pursuant to an understanding reached with the OCS. As of June 1, 2005, we had fully repaid our previously received grants from the OCS. Sela and Printar, from which we acquired businesses and assets, also received OCS grants. Except for special circumstances and if we obtain governmental consents and pay to the OCS amounts which may be substantial, the terms of these grants prohibit us from selling or transferring outside of Israel rights in the technology developed with the grants and allow sale or transfer of rights within Israel only with special governmental approvals, even after full repayment of the grants. Elements of our technologies, including in the areas of electronic hardware, image processing, electro-optics, physics and mechanics, were developed with OCS grants. In addition, we may only manufacture products developed with these grants outside of Israel pursuant to the approval of a special governmental committee, and any approval of this nature may also require us to pay a further significant amount of royalties than the terms of the grants required, unless the amount of production outside Israel is less than 10% of the total production of those products from inception of their production until cessation thereof. The restrictions regarding the sale or transfer of technology or manufacturing rights out of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into strategic alliances or enter into merger or acquisition transactions in the future that provide for the sale or transfer of our technology or manufacturing rights. 16 Sela received government grants from the OCS for the financing of a significant portion of its product development expenditures in previous years. As of December 31, 2013 the amount of unpaid grants received, including interest accrued by Sela, amounted to $2.5 million. As part of the acquisition of Printar’s assets and certain liabilities, we assumed Printar’s liability to the OCS. In addition, in 2009 and 2010 we received additional grants with respect to the development programs of the digital material deposition systems in the amount of $0.6 million. As of December 31, 2013, the amount of un paid grants received, including interest accrued by Camtek and the liabilities assumed from Printar but not the amounts accrued by Sela, amounted to $6.5 million. In 2010, a dispute has arisen between us and the OCS in Israel with respect to an amount of approximately $700,000 regarding repayment of an increased amount of grants pertaining to certain of our products, the manufacturing and assembly of which has been moved to a foreign subsidiary. Based, among other matters, on the nature and/or quantities of products manufactured or assembled by our foreign subsidiary, and in conjunction with the opinion of our legal advisors, we believe that the probability that we will be required to pay this amount is less than 50%. Accordingly, no provision has been recorded in our financial statements in respect of this matter. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this Annual Report or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and our Israeli attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to assert U.S. federal securities laws claims or to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in actions originally instituted in Israel. Some provisions of Israeli law could inhibit the acquisition of us by others. Some provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us; see item 10.B-"Memorandum and Articles"-"Anti-Takeover Effects of Israeli Laws; Mergers and Acquisitions Under Israeli Law". In addition, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. For more information on the provisions of Israeli law in these contexts, please see sections “Share Capital” and “Israeli Taxation.” 