ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As noted in the introductory section titled, “Uncertainties Affecting Forward-Looking Statements” above, our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks. You should take them into account in evaluating any investment decision involving Armstrong. It is not possible to predict or identify all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The following discussion is a summary of what we believe to be our most significant risk factors. These and other factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements made in this report. We try to reduce both the likelihood that these risks will affect our businesses and the damage they could have if they do occur. But, no matter how accurate our foresight, how well we evaluate risks, and how effective we are at mitigating them, it is still possible that one of these problems or some other issue could have serious consequences for us. See related discussions in this document and our other SEC filings for more details and subsequent disclosures. Asbestos and Chapter 11 Asbestos personal injury claims are our biggest risk. Our balance sheet currently reflects an implied asbestos liability for AWI that results in negative equity for us. The size of our asbestos liability has not been finally determined in our Chapter 11 reorganization case. It could end up being substantially larger or smaller than the amount currently shown on our balance sheet. Even if that liability should be substantially reduced (for example by federal legislation), we may still have negative equity. Consequently an investment in Armstrong’s stock during our Chapter 11 Case is highly uncertain and speculative. See the discussions of our Chapter 11 Case and of proposed asbestos legislation in this document and in past SEC filings for details. Claims, Litigation and Regulatory Actions While we strive to ensure that our products comply with applicable government regulatory standards and internal requirements, and that our products perform effectively and safely, customers from time to time could claim that our products do not meet contractual requirements, and users could be harmed by use or misuse of our products. This could give rise to breach of contract, warranty or recall claims, or claims for negligence, product liability, strict liability, personal injury or property damage. The building materials industry has been subject to claims relating to silicates, mold, PVC, formaldehyde, toxic fumes, fire-retardant properties and other issues, as well as for incidents of catastrophic loss, such as building fires. Product liability insurance coverage may not be available or adequate in all circumstances. In addition, claims may arise related to patent infringement, environmental liabilities, distributor terminations, commercial contracts, antitrust or competition law, employment law and employee benefits issues, and other regulatory matters. While we have in place processes and policies to mitigate these risks and to investigate and address such claims as they arise, we cannot predict the costs to defend or resolve such claims. Construction activity variability and the size of our market opportunity Our businesses have greater sales opportunities when construction activity is strong and, conversely, have fewer opportunities when such activity declines. Construction activity tends to increase when economies are strong, interest rates are favorable, government spending is strong, and consumers are confident. Since most of our sales are in the U.S., its economy is the most important for our business, but conditions in Europe and Asia also are relevant. Raw materials and sourced product issues The cost and availability of raw materials, packaging materials and energy are critical to our operations. For example, we use substantial quantities of natural gas, petroleum-based raw materials, hardwood lumber and mineral fiber in our manufacturing operations. The cost of these items has been volatile and availability has sometimes been tight. We source some of these materials from a limited number of suppliers, which increases the risk of unavailability. The impact of increased costs is greatest where our ability to pass along increased costs is limited, whether due to competitive pressures or other factors. 14 Table of Contents Consumer preference and competition Our customers consider our products’ pricing, styling and performance, and our customer service when deciding whether to purchase our products. Shifting consumer preference, e.g. from residential vinyl products to other hard-surface flooring, styling preferences or inability to offer new competitive performance features could hurt our sales. These risks are inherent in our highly competitive markets. For certain products, there is excess industry capacity in several geographic markets, which tends to increase competition based on price as well as on other factors. And competition from overseas competitors who have a lower cost structure is a particular threat in some areas, such as our U.S. flooring businesses. International trade and operations A significant portion of our products move in international trade, particularly among the U.S., Canada, Europe and Asia. Also, approximately 30% of our annual revenues are from operations outside the U.S. Our international trade is subject to currency exchange fluctuations, trade regulations, import duties, logistics costs and delays and other related risks. In addition, our international business is subject to variable tax rates, credit risks in emerging markets, political risks, and loss of sales to local competitors following currency devaluations in countries where we import products for sale. Challenges in executing operational restructuring actions We monitor how effectively and profitably our businesses service our customers. To stay competitive, we look for ways to make our operations more efficient and effective. We reduce, move or expand our plants and operations as needed, and we currently have several of these actions in various stages of completion. Each action generally involves substantial planning and capital investment. We can err in planning and executing our actions, which could create risks to our customer service and cause unplanned costs. Labor contracts Most of our manufacturing employees are represented by unions and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements that must be periodically renegotiated. Although we believe that we will reach new contracts as older ones expire, our negotiations may result in a significant increase in our costs. Failure to reach new contracts could lead to work stoppages, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Dependence on key customers Some of our businesses are dependent on a few key customers. For example, much of our North America revenue comes from sales to home center retailers, including The Home Depot, Inc. and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. Together these customers account for approximately 20% of our consolidated total sales. We do not have long-term contracts with these customers. The loss of sales to one of these major customers, or changes in our business relationship with them, could have a material adverse impact on our results. 15 Table of Contents 