ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered in conjunction with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report may include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to those risk factors discussed elsewhere in this report, we identify the following risk factors, which could affect our actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We may be unable to integrate successfully the businesses of the Bruker BioSpin Group and the combined company may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of our combination with the Bruker BioSpin Group will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating the business of the Bruker BioSpin Group with the business of Bruker Corporation. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon the successful integration of the operations of the Bruker BioSpin Group. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies of the 26 Bruker BioSpin Group with those of Bruker Corporation's operating subsidiaries, Bruker AXS, Bruker Daltonics and Bruker Optics, include, among others: •consolidating research and development operations while preserving the research and development activities and important relationships of each of the operating subsidiaries; •retaining key employees; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; •integrating and managing the technology of the companies; and •minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the Company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the combination, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. The Bruker BioSpin Group has always operated as a private company and does not have in place the financial organization, reporting and controls necessary for a public company. Since its formation, the recently acquired Bruker BioSpin Group has always operated as a private company. It has never put in place the financial organization, reporting and controls which are required for a U.S. public company. The cost of implementing this type of financial organization, reporting and controls may be significant, and compliance with U.S. public company requirements, including those implemented as part of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, may have an adverse effect on the operations of the combined company. If those limitations caused us to miss a reporting deadline or otherwise not comply with an applicable law or regulation, we might, among other things, be unable to use a Form S-3 registration statement for twelve months, have a material weakness in our internal controls or violate our bank covenants. Our Bruker BioSpin subsidiary operates in a mature market and has achieved a high market share and, as a result, the potential for future growth may be limited. The markets for NMR, research MRI and EPR are well established. Our Bruker BioSpin subsidiary has high market share and, as a result, future growth may be limited to the growth of the overall market for NMR, research MRI and EPR products. While this growth has been steady when measured over long time periods, future growth may depend on new applications developed by academic and industrial customers, and in most cases is outside our control. If our products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance across their broad intended range of applications, we will not generate expected revenue. Our business strategy depends on our ability to successfully commercialize a broad range of products based on mass spectrometry, vibrational spectroscopy, X-ray technology, magnetic resonance core technology and superconducting magnet technology for use in a variety of life science, chemistry and materials analysis applications. Some of our products have only recently been commercially launched and have achieved only limited sales to date. The commercial success of our products depends on our obtaining continued and expanding market acceptance of our products by our diverse industrial, academic, medical research and governmental customers around the world. We may fail to achieve or sustain substantial market acceptance for our products across the full range of our intended applications or in one or more of our principal intended applications. Any such failure could decrease our sales and revenue. To succeed, we must convince substantial numbers of potential customers to 27 invest in new systems or replace their existing techniques with mass spectrometry, vibrational spectroscopy, X-ray and magnetic resonance techniques employing our systems. Limited funding available for capital acquisitions by our customers, as well as our customers' own internal purchasing approval policies, could hinder market acceptance of our products. Our intended customers may be reluctant to make the substantial capital investment generally needed to acquire our products or to incur the training and other costs involved with replacing their existing systems with our products. We also may not be able to convince our intended customers that our systems are an attractive and cost-effective alternative to other technologies and systems for the acquisition, analysis and management of molecular information. Because of these and other factors, our products may fail to gain or sustain market acceptance. Our products compete in markets that are subject to rapid technological change, and one or more of the technologies underlying our products could be made obsolete by new technology. The market for discovery and analysis tools is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product introductions. Rapidly changing technology could make some or all of our product lines obsolete unless we are able to continually improve our existing products and develop new products. Because substantially all of our products are based on mass spectrometry, vibrational spectroscopy, X-ray technology, and magnetic resonance technology, we are particularly vulnerable to any technological advances that would make certain of these techniques obsolete as the basis for analytical systems in any of our markets. To meet the evolving needs of our customers, we must rapidly and continually enhance our current and planned products and services and develop and introduce new products and services. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies which are subject to rapid change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the rapid changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. If we fail to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers, our product sales may decline, and we could experience significant losses. Our debt may adversely affect our cash flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our activities. In connection with the Bruker BioSpin acquisition, our overall debt level increased from $38.1 million at December 31, 2007, to approximately $390.0 million at such date on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the financing of the acquisition. Our leverage could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic acquisitions. Our ability to satisfy our obligations depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. If we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with affiliates. The covenants in our credit agreement include a maximum debt-to-EBITDA ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that 28 are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. If we are unable to recover significant development costs of one or more of our products or product lines, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We offer and plan to continue to offer a broad product line and incur and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for the development of new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. Our business model calls for us to derive a significant portion of our revenues each year from products that did not exist in the previous two years. However, we may experience difficulties which may delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or product enhancements. The speed of technological change in life science and other related markets we serve may prevent us from successfully marketing some or all of our products for the length of time required to recover their often significant development costs. If we fail to recover the development costs of one or more products or product lines, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We face substantial competition. We face substantial competition and we expect that competition in all of our markets will increase further. Currently, our principal competition comes from established companies providing products using existing technologies, including mass spectrometry, X-ray technology, OES technology, vibrational spectroscopy, CBRN detection technologies, TD-NMR technologies and other technologies, which perform many of the same functions for which we market our products. Other companies also may choose to enter our fields in the future. Our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products or that may render our products obsolete. Competition has in the past and is likely in the future to subject our products to pricing pressure. Many of our competitors have more experience in the market and substantially greater financial, operational, marketing and technical resources than we do which could give them a competitive edge in areas such as research and development, production, marketing and distribution. Our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to develop proprietary products that reach the market in a timely manner and are technologically superior to, less expensive than, or more cost-effective than, other currently marketed products. Our operations are dependent upon a limited number of suppliers and contract manufacturers. We currently purchase components used in our products from a limited number of outside suppliers. Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers could result in time delays associated with redesigning a product due to an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. Any of these factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. For example, we currently purchase key components used in our mass spectrometry, vibrational spectroscopy and X-ray systems from certain suppliers. In particular, Bruker AXS obtains a sophisticated chip for use in its CCD detectors from Fairchild Imaging which, to Bruker AXS' knowledge, is the only source of a chip of this size and quality. The X-ray microanalysis business of Bruker AXS, which manufactures and sells accessories for electron microscopes, is partially dependent on cooperation from larger manufacturers of electron microscopes. Additionally, Bruker Daltonics purchases certain magnets from a single supplier, Varian/Magnex, and also obtains certain key components for the manufacture of its ion traps from Agilent, the sole supplier of these components. Our Bruker-Quantron subsidiary purchases certain optical detectors from a single supplier, PerkinElmer, Inc., the sole supplier of certain detector components. Bruker Optics purchases its focal plane array detectors from a single supplier, Lockheed Martin Corporation. Similarly, our Bruker 29 BioSpin subsidiary obtains various components from sole or limited source suppliers. There are limited, if any, available alternatives to these suppliers. The existence of shortages of these components or the failure of delivery with regard to these components could have a material adverse effect upon our revenues and margins. In addition, price increases from these suppliers could have a material adverse effect upon our gross margins. Because of the scarcity of some components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of components, or we may be required to pay higher prices or to purchase components of lesser quality. Any delay or interruption in the supply of these or other components could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, harm our reputation and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, any increase in the cost of the components that we use in our products could make our products less competitive and decrease our gross margins. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of required components on the same or substantially the same terms. Additionally, consolidations among our suppliers could result in other sole source suppliers for us in the future. Our business could be harmed if our collaborations fail to advance our product development. Demand for our products will depend in part upon the extent to which our collaborations with pharmaceutical, biotechnology and proteomics companies are successful in developing, or helping us to develop, new products and new applications for our existing products. In addition, we collaborate with academic institutions and government research laboratories on product development. We have limited or no control over the resources that any collaborator may devote to our products. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. If we fail to enter into or maintain appropriate collaboration agreements, or if any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop some of our new products, which could materially impede our ability to generate revenue or profits. If we lose our strategic partners, our marketing efforts could be impaired. A substantial portion of our sales of selected products consists of sales to third parties who incorporate our products in their systems. These third parties are responsible for the marketing and sales of their systems. We have little or no control over their marketing and sales activities or how they use their resources. Our present or future strategic partners may or may not purchase sufficient quantities of products from us or perform appropriate marketing and sales activities. In addition, if we are unable to maintain our relationships with strategic partners, our business may suffer. Failures by our present or future strategic partners, or our inability to maintain or enter into new arrangements with strategic partners for product distribution, could materially impede the growth of our business and our ability to generate sufficient revenue and profits. If we are unable to make or complete future mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances as a part of our growth strategy, or integrate recent or future mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances, our business development may suffer. Our strategy includes potentially expanding our technology base through selected mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances. In 2005, our indirect subsidiary, Bruker AXS GmbH, acquired Roentec AG, an X-ray microanalysis instrumentation company based in Berlin, Germany, and our direct subsidiary, Bruker AXS Inc., acquired the microanalysis business of Princeton Gamma-Tech Instruments, Inc., a company located in Rocky Hill, New Jersey. The acquired businesses were combined to form a new group within Bruker AXS that focuses on the microanalysis market, a market not previously addressed by Bruker AXS. In 2006, we completed our acquisition of Bruker Optics and Bruker AXS acquired KeyMaster Technologies, Inc., a developer and manufacturer of portable hand-held X-ray fluorescence systems located in Kennewick, Washington. Also in 2006, Bruker AXS GmbH completed two acquisitions, purchasing Socabim SAS, a Paris, France based company 30 focused on advanced X-ray materials research and analysis software, and Quantron GmbH, an optical emission spectroscopy company based in Kleve, Germany. In the first quarter of 2008, we completed the acquisition of the affiliated companies of the Bruker BioSpin Group. We may seek to continue to expand our technology base through mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances. If we fail to effect mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances, our technology base may not expand as quickly and efficiently as possible. Without such complementary growth from selected mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances, our ability to keep up with the evolving needs of the markets we serve and to meet our future performance goals could be adversely affected. However, we may not be able to find attractive candidates, or enter into mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances on terms that are favorable to us, or successfully integrate the operations of companies that we acquire. In addition, we may compete with other companies for these merger, acquisition or strategic alliance candidates, which could make such a transaction more expensive for us. If we are able to successfully identify and complete a merger, acquisition or strategic alliance, it could involve a number of risks, including, among others: •the difficulty of coordinating or consolidating geographically separate organizations and integrating personnel with different business backgrounds and corporate cultures; •the difficulty of integrating previously autonomous departments in accounting and finance, sales and marketing, distribution, and administrative functions, and expanding and integrating information and management systems; •the diversion of resources and management time; •the potential disruption of our ongoing business; •the potential impairment of relationships with customers as a result of changes in management or otherwise arising out of such transactions; and •the significantly increased risk of key management or key employees leaving the acquired companies within the first 1-2 years after the acquisition, including the risk that they may complete with us subsequently. If we are not able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, we may not be able to realize all of the cost savings and other benefits that we expect to result from the transactions. Goodwill and other intangible assets are subject to impairment. As a result of the merger of Bruker Daltonics and Bruker AXS in July 2003, we recorded goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be periodically evaluated for potential impairment. In addition, our recent acquisitions have resulted in additional goodwill and other intangible assets. We assess the realizability of the reported goodwill and other intangible assets annually, as well as whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired. These events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a significant decline in the earnings associated with the business segment these acquisitions are reported within. Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill will depend on the future cash flows of the business segment in addition to how well we integrate the businesses acquired. In addition to the risks applicable to our life science and materials analysis products, our CBRN detection products are subject to a number of additional risks, including lengthy product development and contract negotiation periods and certain risks inherent in long-term government contracts. Our CBRN detection products are subject to many of the same risks associated with our life science products, including vulnerability to rapid technological change, dependence on mass spectrometry and other technologies and substantial competition. In addition, our CBRN detection 31 products as well as our FT-IR products are generally sold to government agencies under long-term contracts. These contracts generally involve lengthy pre-contract negotiations and product development. We may be required to devote substantial working capital and other resources prior to obtaining product orders. As a result, we may incur substantial costs before we recognize revenue from these products. Moreover, in return for larger, longer-term contracts, our customers for these products often demand more stringent acceptance criteria. These criteria may also cause delays in our ability to recognize revenue from sales of these products. Furthermore, we may not be able to accurately predict in advance our costs to fulfill our obligations under these long-term contracts. If we fail to accurately predict our costs, due to inflation or other factors, we could incur significant losses. Also, the presence or absence of such contracts may cause substantial variation in our results of operations between fiscal periods and, as a result, our results of operations for any given fiscal period may not be predictive of our results for subsequent fiscal periods. The resulting uncertainty may have an adverse impact on our stock price. If general health care spending patterns decline, our ability to generate revenue may suffer. We are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and funding priorities of various governments and government agencies. Since our inception, both we and our academic collaborators and customers have benefited from various governmental contracts and research grants. Whether we or our academic collaborators will continue to be able to attract these grants depends not only on the quality of our products, but also on general spending patterns of public institutions. Any reduction in the capital resources or government funding of our customers could reduce our sales and impede our ability to generate revenue. A significant portion of our sales are capital purchases by our customers. The spending policies of our customers could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available to make purchases, the spending priorities among various types of equipment, policies regarding spending during recessionary periods and changes in the political climate. Any changes in capital spending or changes in the capital budgets of our customers could significantly reduce demand for our products. The capital resources of our life science and other corporate customers may be limited by the availability of equity or debt financing. Any significant decline in research and development expenditures by our life science customers could significantly decrease our sales. In addition, we make a substantial portion of our sales to non-profit and government entities which are dependent on government support for scientific research. Any decline in this support could decrease the ability of these customers to purchase our products. We are subject to existing and potential additional regulation and government inquiry, which can impose burdens on our operations and narrow the markets for our products. We are subject, both directly and indirectly, to the adverse impact of existing and potential future government regulation of our operations and markets. For example, exportation of our products, particularly our CBRN detection products, is subject to strict regulatory control in a number of jurisdictions. The failure to satisfy export control criteria or obtain necessary clearances could delay or prevent shipment of products, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, the life sciences industry, which is the market for our principal products, has historically been heavily regulated. There are, for example, laws in several jurisdictions restricting research in genetic engineering, which can operate to narrow our markets. Given the evolving nature of this industry, legislative bodies or regulatory authorities may adopt additional regulation that adversely affects our market opportunities. Additionally, if ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of genetic information, gene therapy or genetically modified organisms become widespread, we may have less 32 demand for our products. Our business is also directly affected by a wide variety of government regulations applicable to business enterprises generally and to companies operating in the life sciences industry in particular. We note that, as a result of developing and selling products which are the subject of such regulation, we have been, are, and expect to be in the future, subject to inquiries from the government agencies which enforce these regulations, including the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the U.S. Department of Defense, among others, as well as from state or foreign governments and their departments and agencies. As a result, from time to time, the attention of our management and other resources may be diverted to attend to these inquiries. In addition, failure to comply with these regulations or obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in a variety of fines or other censures or an interruption in our business operations which may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenues. Finally, our compliance with existing regulations, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may have a material adverse impact on us. Under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. Compliance with this legislation may divert management's attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expense. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Our commercial success depends on avoiding the infringement of other parties' patents and proprietary rights as well as avoiding the breach of any licenses relating to our technologies and products. Given that there may be patents of which we are unaware, particularly in the U.S. where patent applications are confidential, avoidance of patent infringement may be difficult. Various third-parties hold patents which may relate to our technology, and we may be found in the future to infringe these or other patents or proprietary rights of third parties, either with products we are currently marketing or developing or with new products which we may develop in the future. If a third party holding rights under a patent successfully asserts an infringement claim with respect to any of our current or future products, we may be prevented from manufacturing or marketing our infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. We may not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, especially if the patent holder is a competitor. In addition, even if we can obtain the license, it may be non-exclusive, which will permit others to practice the same technology licensed to us. We also may be required to pay substantial damages to the patent holder in the event of an infringement. Under some circumstances in the U.S., these damages could include damages equal to triple the actual damages the patent holder incurs. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing by them or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or license payments they are required to make to the patent holder. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products based on similar technology. Furthermore, we will suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any successful infringement action against us may harm our business. 33 If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our continued success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for our products throughout the world. We rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued, or which may be issued to us in the future, may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology could materially impair our ability to be commercially competitive. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on the protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship with us. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. Furthermore, others may have, or may in the future independently develop, substantially similar or superior know-how and technology. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that are brought by us which could be expensive and time consuming and, if determined adversely, could adversely affect our patent position. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, and we may be similarly sued by others. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings is costly and diverts our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our manufacture and sale of products could lead to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. The manufacture and sale of our products exposes us to product liability claims if any of our products cause injury or are found otherwise unsuitable during manufacturing, marketing, sale or customer use. In particular, if one of our CBRN detection products malfunctions, this could lead to civilian or military casualties in a time of unrest, exposing us to increased potential for high-profile 34 liability. If our CBRN detection products malfunction by generating a false-positive to a potential threat, we could be exposed to liabilities associated with actions taken that otherwise would not have been required. Additionally, the nuclear magnetic resonance, research magnetic resonance imaging, Fourier transform mass spectrometry, and certain electron paramagnetic resonance magnets of the Bruker BioSpin Group utilize high magnet fields and cryogenics to operate at approximately 4 Kelvin, the temperature of liquid helium. There is an inherent risk of potential product liability due to the existence of these high magnetic fields, associated stray fields outside the magnet, and the handling of the cryogens associated with superconducting magnets. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of, or outside the coverage of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms, if at all, and insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Responding to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials which we use could be time consuming and costly. We use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in our business and generate wastes that are regulated as hazardous wastes under United States federal, and Massachusetts, California and Wisconsin state, environmental and atomic energy regulatory laws and under equivalent provisions of law in those jurisdictions in which our research and manufacturing facilities are located. Our use of these substances and materials is subject to stringent, and periodically changing, regulation that can impose costly compliance obligations on us and have the potential to adversely affect our manufacturing activities. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result, in addition to incurring clean-up costs and liabilities, which can be substantial. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities resulting in delays and increased costs. We are dependent upon various key personnel and must recruit additional qualified personnel for a number of management positions. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of key management, particularly our chief executive officer, Frank H. Laukien, as well as technical and scientific personnel. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time upon short notice. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management, technical or scientific staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit and retain additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the areas of information technology, engineering and science, and the process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. We may not be able to maintain our sales and service staff to meet demand for our products and services. We need to expand our direct marketing and sales force as well as our service and support staff. Our future revenue and profitability will depend in part on our ability to maintain our team of marketing and service personnel. Because our products are technical in nature, we believe that our marketing, sales and support staff must have scientific or technical expertise and experience. Competition for employees with these skills is intense. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain sufficient qualified sales and service people, and we may not be able to maintain and develop an 35 efficient and effective sales, marketing and support department. If we fail to continue to attract or retain qualified people, then our business could suffer. We plan significant growth, and there is a risk that we will not be able to manage this growth. Our success will depend on the expansion of our operations. Effective growth management will place increased demands on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage our growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. Our failure to manage this growth effectively could impair our ability to generate revenue or could cause our expenses to increase more rapidly than revenue, resulting in operating losses. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries. International sales account and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, many of which are beyond our control. These risks, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and our ability to sell our products internationally, include: •changes in foreign currency exchange rates; •changes in regulatory requirements; •legislation and regulation, including tariffs, relating to the import or export of high technology products; •the imposition of government controls; •political and economic instability, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental restrictions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances; •costs and risks of deploying systems in foreign countries; •compliance with export laws and controls in multiple jurisdictions; •limited intellectual property rights; and •the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties, including unfavorable labor regulations, specifically those applicable to our European operations, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future. We may lose money when we exchange foreign currency received from international sales into U.S. dollars. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. In addition, currency fluctuations could cause the price of our products to be more or less competitive than our principal competitors' products. Currency fluctuations will increase or decrease our cost structure relative to those of our competitors which could lessen the demand for our products and affect our competitive position. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. From time to time we enter into 36 certain hedging transactions and/or option and foreign currency exchange contracts which are intended to offset some of the market risk associated with our sales denominated in foreign currencies. We cannot predict the effectiveness of these transactions or their impact upon our future operating results, and from time to time they may negatively affect our quarterly earnings. Various international tax risks could adversely affect our earnings. We are subject to international tax risks. Distributions of earnings and other payments received from our subsidiaries may be subject to withholding taxes imposed by the countries where they are operating or are formed. If these foreign countries do not have income tax treaties with the United States or the countries where our subsidiaries are incorporated, we could be subject to high rates of withholding taxes on these distributions and payments. We could also be subject to being taxed twice on income related to operations in these non-treaty countries. Because we are unable to reduce the taxable income of one operating company with losses incurred by another operating company located in another country, we may have a higher foreign effective income tax rate than that of other companies in our industry. The amount of the credit that we may claim against our U.S. federal income tax for foreign income taxes is subject to many limitations which may significantly restrict our ability to claim a credit for all of the foreign taxes we pay. We currently have reserves established on the statutory books of certain international locations. Within our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the potential tax liabilities associated with these reserves have been recorded as long-term deferred tax liabilities. If these reserves are challenged, and we are unable to successfully defend the need for such reserves, these liabilities could become current resulting in a negative impact to our anticipated cash flows from operations over the next twelve months. Armed hostilities could constrain our ability to conduct business internationally and could also disrupt our U.S. operations. The current world unrest, or the responses of the United States, may lead to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere, which may further contribute to the economic instability in the United States. These attacks or armed conflicts may affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers and could have an impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capability, our insurance premiums or the ability to purchase insurance and our ability to deliver our products to our customers. The consequences of these risks are unpredictable, and their long-term effect upon us is uncertain. Increasing prices of metal raw materials and superconducting wire could adversely affect the gross margins and profitability of our Bruker BioSpin subsidiary and its superconducting wire business. The last few years have seen sharp increases in the prices for various raw materials, in part due to high demand from developing countries. The Bruker BioSpin Group relies on some of these materials for the production of its products. In particular, for its superconducting magnet production, both for the horizontal and vertical magnet series, the Bruker BioSpin Group relies on the availability of copper, steel and the metallic raw materials for traditional low-temperature superconducting wires. Higher prices for these commodities will increase the production cost of superconducting wires and superconducting magnets and may adversely affect gross margins. The price of copper has increased significantly over the last decade. Since copper is a main constituent of low temperature superconductors, this may affect the price of superconducting wire. This type of increase would have an immediate effect on the production costs of superconducting magnets and may negatively affect the profit margins for those products. In addition, an increase in raw material cost affects the production cost of the superconducting wire produced by the Bruker BioSpin Group. 37 The emerging risk of liquid helium becoming scarce and significantly more expensive could dampen the demand for NMR and research MRI products. The demand for helium has risen sharply over the last decade. The superconducting magnets used in magnetic resonance rely on liquid helium for their operation. The high global demand, in combination with a shortage in supply, has caused prices for liquid helium to rise significantly. This has an adverse effect on the operating costs for magnetic resonance equipment, and may dampen demand for NMR, EPR and research MRI magnets in the future. The unpredictability and fluctuation of our quarterly results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and results of operations have in the past and may in the future vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and any of which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors that may affect us include the following: •the timing of sales of our products and services; •the timing of recognizing revenue and deferred revenue under U.S. GAAP; •changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; •increases in sales and marketing, product development or administration expenses; •the mix of services provided by us and third-party contractors; •our ability to attain and maintain quality levels for our products; •costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and •the effectiveness of transactions entered into to hedge the risks associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Historically, we have experienced a decrease in revenue in the first, second and third quarters of each fiscal year relative to the prior fourth quarter, which we believe is due to our customers' budgeting cycles. These seasonal fluctuations may increase in the future as a result of the acquisition of the Bruker BioSpin Group in February 2008. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In this event, the price of our common stock may fall. Existing stockholders have significant influence over us. As of March 1, 2008, our majority stockholders, including our President and Chief Executive Officer Frank Laukien, Director and Senior Vice President Dirk Laukien and Director and European Chief Operating Officer Joerg Laukien, owned in the aggregate, approximately 69% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and will make some transactions difficult or impossible to accomplish without the support of these stockholders. Other companies may have difficulty acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders, due to provisions under our corporate charter and bylaws, as well as Delaware law. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and our bylaws, as well as Delaware law could make it more difficult for other companies to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our 38 stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws contain the following provisions, among others, which may inhibit an acquisition of our company by a third party: •staggered board of directors, where stockholders elect only a minority of the board each year; •advance notification procedures for matters to be brought before stockholder meetings; •a limitation on who may call stockholder meetings; and •the ability of our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without a stockholder vote. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) we believe are material, (2) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2007 fiscal year, and (3) remain unresolved. 