ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Overview Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Risks Related to Our Business Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. These negative developments in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. Additionally, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations and imposing increased costs, and adversely impact our financial performance. The continuation of adverse market conditions in the U.S. economy and the markets in which we operate could adversely impact us. A continued deterioration of overall market conditions, a continued economic downturn or prolonged economic stagnation in the U.S. markets and our markets may have a negative impact on our business. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the economy in areas where we lend (or previously provided real estate financings) continue to decline, this could result in, among other things, a further deterioration in credit quality or a continued reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on our loan and lease portfolios and provision 16 for loan and lease losses. Negative conditions in our market could adversely affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and leases and the value of the underlying collateral, which in turn, may negatively impact our financial results. Current regional and local economic conditions could adversely affect our profitability. Rhode Island, like many other states in New England and across the country, is facing a mix of growing budget deficits, increasing foreclosures and decreasing home prices. Furthermore, Rhode Island’s unemployment rate continues to exceed the national average and is currently the second highest unemployment rate in the United States. While it is estimated that Rhode Island could receive approximately $1 billion under the ARRA signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009, in order to address the precarious circumstances facing the state and estimated budget shortfalls in the coming years, Rhode Island’s legislature is grappling with decisions over deep spending cuts in welfare programs and other social services, reductions in the state’s employee workforce and severe cutbacks in state aid to cities and towns. It is also possible that tax increases on both individuals and businesses will be needed in the near future to close the budget gap. These measures, combined with rising unemployment and the general slowdown in the national economy, could negatively impact the operations and financial condition of the Bank’s customers, and thus the quality of the Bank’s assets, as well as the Bank’s ability to originate new business. Additionally, Rhode Is land businesses, like many companies throughout the United States, are being forced to deal with ever-increasing health care costs, which may adversely affect the earnings and growth potential for such companies, which may in turn negatively impact Rhode Island’s ability to attract and retain businesses in the state. Our borrowers’ ability to honor their repayment commitments is generally dependent upon the level of economic activity and general health of the regional and local economy. Furthermore, economic conditions beyond our control, such as the strength of credit demand by customers and changes in the general levels of interest rates, may have a significant impact on our operations, including decreases in the value of collateral securing loans. Therefore, an economic recession in this market area adversely affecting growth could cause significant increases in nonperforming assets, thereby reducing operating profits or causing operating losses, impairing liquidity and eroding capital. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our franchise growth and profitability. We face significant competition from a variety of traditional and nontraditional financial service providers both within and outside of Rhode Island, both in making loans and generating deposits. Our most significant competition comes from two national banking institutions and one large regional banking institution that have significant market share positions in Rhode Island. These large banks have well-established, broad distribution networks and greater financial resources than we do, which have enabled them to market their products and services extensively, offer access to a greater number of locations and products, and price competitively. We also face competition from a number of local financial institutions with branches in Rhode Island and in nearby Massachusetts, some of which have been acquired by both local and out-of-state service providers. Additionally, we face competition from out-of-state financial institutions which have established loan production offices in our marketplace, a variety of competitors who seek deposits over the internet and non-bank competitors. Competition for deposits also comes from short-term money market funds, other corporate and government securities funds and non-bank financial service providers such as mutual fund companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and credit unions. Many of our non-bank competitors have fewer regulatory constraints as those imposed on federally insured state chartered banks, which gives these competitors an advantage over us in providing certain services. Such competition may limit our growth and profitability in the future. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely impact our net interest margin. Our earnings and cash flows are heavily dependent on net interest margin, which is the difference between interest income that we earn on loans and investments and the interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. When maturities of assets and liabilities are not balanced, a rapid increase or decrease in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our net interest margin and results of operation. Interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, flattening or inversion of the yield curve, business activity levels, money supply and the policies of various government and regulatory authorities. For example, decreases 17 in the discount rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System usually lead to falling interest rates, which affects interest income and interest expense. Falling interest rates have an immediate impact on the Company’s variable-rate assets, while the Company is generally unable to bring deposit and borrowing costs down as quickly. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. The nature, timing and effect of any future changes in interest rates on us and our future results of operations are not predictable. Changes in customer behavior could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in customer behavior regarding use of deposit accounts could result in lower fee revenue, higher borrowing costs and higher operational costs for the Company. We obtain a large portion of our fee revenue from service charges on our deposit accounts and depend on low-interest cost deposits as a significant source of funds. In addition, competition from other financial institutions could result in higher numbers of closed accounts and increased account acquisition costs. We actively monitor customer behavior and adjust policies and marketing efforts accordingly to attract new and retain existing deposit account customers. Our focus on commercial lending may result in greater risk of losses. At December 31, 2008, 61.1% of our loan and lease portfolio consisted of commercial real estate, business and construction loans and leases, an increase from 55.3% of our loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2007. We intend to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans and leases. These loans generally have a greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of these types of loans often depends on the successful business operation and income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers than do individual one-to four-family residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single one-to four-family residential mortgage loan. Additionally, the primary focus of our business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses and most of our commercial customers are small to medium-sized firms. During periods of economic weakness, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly that larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this deterioration may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan and lease losses. The risk of loan and lease losses varies with, among other things, business and economic conditions, the character and size of the portfolio, loan growth, delinquency trends, industry loss experience, nonperforming loan trends, the creditworthiness of borrowers and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value of the collateral. Based upon such factors, our management arrives at an appropriate allowance for loan and lease losses by maintaining a risk rating system that classifies all loans and leases into varying categories by degree of credit risk, and establishes a level of allowance associated with each category. As part of our ongoing evaluation process, including a formal quarterly analysis of allowances, we make various subjective judgments as to the appropriate level of allowance with respect to each category, judgments as to the categorization of any individual loan or lease, as well as additional subjective judgments in ascertaining the probab ility and extent of any potential losses. If our subjective judgments prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan and lease losses may not cover inherent losses in our loan and lease portfolio, or if bank regulatory officials or changes in economic conditions require us to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses, earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease net income. At December 31, 2008, the allowance for loan and lease losses totaled $14.7 million, representing 1.36% of total loans. There can be no assurance that, in the current environment, credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial position and results of operation. 18 We may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill related to acquisitions. We have acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities through acquisitions. Further, as part of our long-term business strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies or asset portfolios. In connection with prior acquisitions, we have accounted for the portion of the purchase price paid in excess of the book value of the assets acquired as goodwill and we may be required to account for similar premiums paid on future acquisitions in the same manner. Under the applicable accounting rules, goodwill is not amortized and is carried on our books at its original value, subject to periodic review and evaluation for impairment. Our common stock has been trading below both our book value and tangible book value per common share during the fourth quarter of 2008. If our common stock continues to trade at levels below our book value and tangible book value per share, we will conduct quarterly impairment reviews. If, as a result of our periodic review and evaluation of our goodwill for potential impairment, we determine that changes in the business itself, the economic environment including business valuation levels and trends, or the legislative or regulatory environment have adversely affected the fair value of the business, we may be required to record an impairment charge to the extent that the carrying values of our goodwill exceeds the fair value of the business. If market and economic conditions deteriora te further, this could increase the likelihood that we will need to record additional impairment charges. Our operations and profitability could be adversely affected by continued deterioration of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposit, we utilize several non-core funding sources, such as FHLB advances, wholesale repurchase agreements, brokered certificates of deposit and other sources. The availability of these non-core funding sources are subject to broad economic conditions and, as such, the pricing on these sources may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted at any point in time, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. In recent months, the financial media has disclosed that the nation’s Federal Home Loan Bank System (the “FHLB System”) is under stress due to deterioration in the financial markets, particularly in relation to valuation of mortgage securities. Several Federal Home Loan Banks have announced impairment charges of these and othe r assets and as such their capital positions have deteriorated to the point that several have suspended or reduced their dividends, or eliminated the ability of members to redeem capital stock. These institutions obtain their funding primarily through issuance of consolidated obligations of the FHLB System. The U.S. Government does not guarantee these obligations and each of the 12 Federal Home Loan Banks are generally jointly and severally liable for repayment of each other’s debt. We are a member of the FHLB-Boston which in February 2009 announced that, while it meets all of its regulatory capital requirements, it has suspended its quarterly dividend and will continue its moratorium on excess stock repurchase. Should financial conditions continue to weaken, the FHLB System (including FHLB-Boston) in the future may have to curtail advances to member institutions like us. Should the FHLB System deteriorate to the point of not being able to fund future advances to banks, including the Bank, t his would place increased pressure on other wholesale funding sources. Furthermore, we are required to invest in FHLB stock in order to borrow from the FHLB system and our investment in the FHLB could be adversely impacted if the financial health of the FHLB System worsens. We may experience a decline in the market value of our investment securities. A decline in the market value of our investment securities may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such securities under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) if we were to determine that, with respect to any securities in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such securities to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the differenc e between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. 19 The current economic environment and recent volatility of financial markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment securities impairment and the same influences increase the risk of potential impairment on these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded losses for other-than-temporarily impairment of securities of $219,000. We believe we have adequately reviewed our investment securities for impairment and that our investment securities are carried at fair value. However, over time, the economic and market environment may provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines being charged against future earnings. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and additional other-than-temporary impairments may be charged to earnings in future periods, resulting in realized losses. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns, on the investment securities that we own. During 2008, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority and the FDIC, commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. The programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, the new Administration and members of the U.S. Congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings. These loan modification programs, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the mortgage-backed se curities, collateralized mortgage obligations and other securities that we own. Additionally, we may experience an increased level of restructured loans in our residential mortgage portfolio. Expanding the franchise may limit increases in profitability. We have sought to increase the size of our franchise by pursuing business development opportunities and have grown substantially since inception. To the extent additional branches are opened, we are likely to experience higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new branches, which may limit increases in profitability. The ability to increase profitability by establishing new branches is dependent on our ability to identify advantageous branch locations and generate new deposits and loans from those locations and an attractive mix of deposits that will create an acceptable level of net income. In recent years, customer preference for higher yielding term deposits combined with low interest rates and significant competitive deposit pricing pressures in our market have extended the average timeframe for a new branch to achieve profitability, which has adversely affected our earnings. There can be no assurance that any new and/or relocat ed branches will generate an acceptable level of net income or that we will be able to successfully establish new branch locations in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing new business lines or that any new products or services introduced will be profitable. Our growth is substantially dependent on our management team. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives, who have substantial background and experience in banking and financial services, as well as personal contacts, in the Rhode Island market and the region generally. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there is no assurance we will be successful in retaining such personnel. New restrictions on executive compensation imposed on CPP participants, such as the Company, pursuant to EESA and ARRA may place us at a competitive disadvantage in retaining our highest performing personnel. Loss of key personnel may be disruptive to business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating history is not necessarily indicative of future operating results. The Company, as the holding company of the Bank, has no significant assets other than the common stock of the Bank. While we have operated profitably since the first full quarter of operations, future operating results may be affected by many factors, including regional and local economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations and other factors that may affect banks in general, all of which factors may limit or reduce our growth and profitability. For example, the 20 yield curve has been flat-to-inverted during parts of the last three years. Also, customers in the past few years have indicated a preference for higher-yielding term deposit and savings account products. Nonperforming asset levels and loan and lease losses have been low since inception. Continued deteriorating economic conditions coupled with increased unemployment and decreased consumer spending could have a further negative effect on results of our operations through higher credit losses, lower transaction related revenues and lower average deposit balances. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Systems of controls are based upon certain assumptions and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that system objectives are met. Potential failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face various technological risks. We rely heavily on communication and information systems to conduct business. Potential failures, interruptions or breaches in system security could result in disruptions or failures in our key systems, such as general ledger, deposit or loan systems. We have developed policies and procedures aimed at preventing and limiting the effect of failure, interruption or security breaches of information systems; however, there cannot be assurance that these incidences will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be appropriately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in the loss of business, subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny or subject us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We encounter technological change continually. The financial services industry continually undergoes technological change. Effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables banks and financial services institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to meet the needs of customers by effectively using technology to provide the products and services that satisfy customer demands, as well as create operational efficiencies. Additionally, many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Inability to keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have an adverse impact on our business and as a result, our financial condition and results of operation. Extensive government regulation and supervision have a significant impact on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and customers, rather than for the benefit of investors. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by regulators, which require maintenance of adequate capital to support growth. Furthermore, the addition of new branches requires the approval of the FDIC as well as state banking authorities in Rhode Island. We chose to participate in the CPP and as a result of such participation are subject to additional regulatory restrictions, including limitations and prohibitions on various forms of executive compensation, restriction on dividends and stock repurchases and corporate governance requirements. The EESA and ARRA are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time. There is no way to predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, the cost of compliance with new laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could adversely affect operations and profitability. 21 Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock Our common stock has limited liquidity. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market SM, it has less liquidity than the average stock quoted on a national securities exchange. Because of this limited liquidity, it may be more difficult for investors to sell a substantial number of shares and any such sales may adversely affect the stock price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future equity offerings, issuance of common stock in acquisition transactions, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We cannot give assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair future ability to raise capital through sales of common stock. Fluctuations in the price of our stock could adversely impact your investment. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to variations in the quarterly operating results, changes in management, announcements of new products or services by us or competitors, legislative or regulatory changes, general trends in the industry and other events or factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations which have affected the market price of the common stock of many companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of these companies, thereby adversely affecting the market price of these companies’ common stock. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will not decline. There are limitations on our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the financial condition of the Bank, as well as other business considerations. Payment of dividends by the Company is also restricted by statutory limitations. These limitations could have the effect of reducing the amount of dividends we can declare. Due to our participation in the CPP, we may not increase our dividend without the consent of the U.S. Treasury prior to December 19, 2011, unless the Series A preferred shares sold to the U.S. Treasury have been redeemed in whole or transferred to a third party which is not an affiliate of ours. See Note 19 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional CPP information. Certain Anti-Takeover measures affect the ability of shareholders to effect takeover transactions. We are subject to the Rhode Island Business Combination Act which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits business combinations involving certain shareholders of publicly held corporations for a period of five years after such shareholders acquire 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, among other things, provide that, in addition to any vote required by law, the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the holders of our voting stock, voting as a single class, is required for approval of all business combinations. Our Board of Directors also has the authority, without further action by shareholders, to issue additional preferred stock in one or more series and to fix by resolution, the rights, preferences and privileges of such series to the extent permitted by law. Our Board could designate certain rights and privileges for such preferred stock which would discourage unsolicited tender offers or takeover proposals or have anti-takeover effects. Our Articles also provide for three classes of directors to be elected for staggered three year terms, which make it more difficult to change the composition of our Board. All of these provisions may make it more difficult to effect a takeover transaction. The Series A preferred shares impact net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. As long as our Series A preferred shares are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred shares have been paid in full. Additionally, for so long as the U.S. Treasury owns the Series A preferred shares, we are not permitted to increase cash dividends on our common stock without the 22 U.S. Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on our Series A preferred shares will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the Series A preferred shares during the first five years, the dividends on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($1.5 million annually) to 9% ($2.7 million annually). Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A preferred shares, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. Our Series A preferred shares will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred shares have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series A preferred shares that we have issued to the U.S. Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock and holders of the Series A preferred shares have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series A preferred shares will rank senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series A preferred shares. So long as any Series A preferred shares remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. We and our subsidiaries also may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred shares for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances described more fully below. Furthermore, the Series A preferred shares are entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred shares may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred shares for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred shares, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A preferred shares have limited voting rights. Except as otherwise required by law, and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors, in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred shares for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series A preferred shares have limited voting rights. So long as the Series A preferred shares are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the Series A preferred shares outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred shares; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred shares so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred shares; or (3) cons ummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the Series A preferred shares remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the Series A preferred shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the Series A preferred shares. Directors and executive officers own a significant portion of our common stock. Our directors and executive officers, as a group, beneficially owned approximately 27.1% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result of their ownership, the directors and executive officers would have the ability, if they vote their shares in a like manner, to significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 