ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses that, if continued, could adversely affect the market price of our securities and our ability to raise capital. We had net losses of approximately $487.9 million, $43.1 million and $134.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. If we cannot generate profits in the future, our failure to do so could adversely affect the market price of our securities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt. 24 Table of Contents If we cannot raise required capital, we may have to reduce or curtail certain existing operations. We may require significant additional capital for general working capital and debt service needs. If our cash flow and existing working capital are not sufficient to fund our general working capital and debt service requirements, we will have to raise additional funds by selling equity, refinancing some or all of our existing debt or selling assets or subsidiaries. None of these alternatives for raising additional funds may be available on acceptable terms to us or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our requirements. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds and engage in acquisitions is limited by the terms of the amended credit facility agreement. Our failure to obtain any required new financing may, if needed, require us to reduce or curtail certain existing operations. Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of December 31, 2008, we had $403.5 million of debt outstanding under our syndicated bank credit facility. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is and will continue to be used to service our debt obligations, and our ability to obtain additional financing is limited by the terms of the amended credit facility agreement. We may not have sufficient future cash flow to meet our debt payments, or we may not be able to refinance any of our debt at maturity. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to our lenders as collateral. Our lenders could proceed against the collateral to repay outstanding indebtedness if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations. If the amounts outstanding under our amended credit facility agreement are accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to such lenders. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, such as: • preventing us, under the terms of the amended credit facility agreement, from obtaining additional financing to grow our business and compete effectively; • limiting our ability, as a practical matter, to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; and • placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who have less debt. The amended credit facility agreement contains various covenants that limit management’s discretion in the operation of our business and could limit our ability to grow and compete. The amended credit facility agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains various provisions that limit our ability to: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments, capital expenditures and other restricted payments; • create liens; • acquire or sell assets; • continue to repurchase our stock under our publicly-announced stock repurchase program, and otherwise, except in a limited circumstance; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. These provisions restrict our management’s ability to operate our business in accordance with management’s discretion and could limit our ability to do a number of things, including growing and competing effectively. 25 Table of Contents Moreover, if we fail to comply with any of the financial covenants or ratios under our amended credit facility agreement, our lenders could: • elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or • terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit. Any such action by our lenders would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition. We are continuing to experience declining net revenue and net losses, primarily as a result of the global financial crisis and recession. Were these factors to continue for an extended period of time, our ability to comply with our amended credit facility agreement, including financial covenants and ratio, and continue to operate our business as it is presently conducted could be jeopardized. We reported a net loss of $487.9 million and had positive cash flow from operations of $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Additionally, as of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $822.0 million. If we were to experience continuing net losses and further declining net revenue beyond the amounts we have budgeted for 2009, there could be an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including but not limited to our failure to comply with the financial covenants or ratios under our amended credit facility agreement. In addition, if events or circumstances occur such that we were not able to generate positive cash flow and operate our business as it is presently conducted, we may be required to obtain a further amendment to our amended credit facility agreement, seek a waiver from our banks if we are unable to comply with our financial covenants or ratios, refinance our existing debt, divest non-core assets or operations and/or obtain additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such transactions could be consummated on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Any default under our amended credit facility agreement, inability to renegotiate such agreement if required, obtain additional financing if needed, or obtain waivers for any failure to comply with financial covenants and ratios would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition. The current global financial crisis and recession may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial position. The continuation or worsening of the current global financial crisis and recession could have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, results of operations and/or financial position. These current economic conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the automotive, services, telecommunications, travel and restaurant industries, which provide a significant amount of our advertising revenue. There can be no assurance that we will not experience any further material adverse effect on our business as a result of the current economic conditions or that the actions of the United States Government, Federal Reserve or other governmental and regulatory bodies for the reported purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect. Additionally, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers or our financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. Potential consequences of the continuing current global financial crisis and recession include: • the financial condition of companies that advertise on our stations, including, among others, those in the automotive, services, telecommunications, travel and restaurant industries, which may file for bankruptcy protection or face severe cash flow issues, may result in a further significant decline in our advertising revenue; • our ability to borrow capital on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could limit our ability to refinance our existing debt; • our ability to pursue the acquisition or divestiture of television or radio assets may be limited, both as a result of these factors and, with respect to acquisitions, limitations contained in the amended credit facility agreement; 26 Table of Contents • the possibility that our business partners such as our counterparties to our outsourcing and new share arrangements could be negatively impacted and our ability to maintain these business relationships; • the possible further impairment of some or all of the value of our syndicated programming, goodwill and other intangible assets, including our broadcast licenses; and • the possibility that one or more of the lenders under our bank credit facility could refuse to fund its commitment to us or could fail, and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. Our advertising revenue can vary substantially from period to period based on many factors beyond our control. This volatility affects our operating results and may reduce our ability to repay indebtedness or reduce the market value of our securities. We rely on sales of advertising time for most of our revenues and, as a result, our operating results are sensitive to the amount of advertising revenue we generate. If we generate less revenue, it may be more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and the value of our business may decline. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on: • the levels of advertising, which can fluctuate between and among industry groups and in general, based on industry and general economic conditions; • the health of the economy in the area where our television and radio stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming and that of our competition; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television stations, radio stations, MVPDs and internet and broadband content providers serving in the same markets; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. The relative lack of political advertising in 2009 and the continued anticipated further deterioration of the U.S. and other nation’s economies, such as Mexico, will likely result in a further significant decrease in our advertising revenue for 2009, which in turn will likely have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Recent global economic turmoil may affect our financial performance or our ability to forecast our business with accuracy. Our operations and performance depend significantly on U.S. and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and their impact on purchases of advertising by our customers. As a result of the ongoing global financial crisis, which is being experienced on a broad and extensive scope and scale, and the continuing recession in the United States, general economic conditions deteriorated significantly throughout 2008, have continued to deteriorate significantly further since the end of 2008 and may continue to deteriorate or remain depressed for the foreseeable future. Throughout 2008, we experienced a significant slowing of customer demand for advertising commitments in both our television and radio segments. We expect to continue to experience decreased demand for advertising during this volatile economic period, as our customers alter their purchasing activities in response to this economic uncertainty, and, among other things, our customers may change or scale back future purchases of advertising. This uncertainty and volatility may affect our ability to prepare accurate financial forecasts or meet specific forecasted results. It is currently unclear as to what overall effect the current economic conditions and uncertainties will continue to have on the marketplace and our future business. If we are unable to adequately respond to or forecast further changes in demand for advertising if current economic conditions persist or continue to deteriorate, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Cost savings measures that we implemented in 2008 and additional cost saving measures that we intend to implement during 2009 may have an uncertain impact on our business. In response to declining revenue during 2008, primarily as a result of decreased advertising during the global financial crisis and recession, we implemented significant cost-saving measures the fourth quarter of 2008, including personnel reductions and reductions in executive bonuses, employee benefits, general corporate expenses and capital expenditures. As a result of management’s budgeting process for 2009, taking into consideration the further rapid deterioration of the economy due to the continuing global financial crisis and ongoing recession, we will implement significant additional cost-saving measures beginning in April 2009. These cost saving measures will include, among other things, reductions in certain salary expenses, promotional expenses for both of our television and radio segments, certain bonuses, general corporate expenses and capital expenditures. We will continue to evaluate the extent and effectiveness of our cost-saving measures based on changing future economic conditions and our achieving or not achieving 2009 budgeted revenues, and intend to take additional measures if and as circumstances warrant. While we believe that the cost-saving measures we have already implemented, together with additional cost-savings measures that we will take in 2009 and may take in future periods, will allow us to continue to operate our business effectively and continue to comply with the financial covenants and ratios under our amended credit facility agreement, it is not possible to predict what effects, if any, such cost-saving measures may have on our business as a whole or our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of our amended credit facility agreement. The terms of any additional equity or convertible debt financing could contain terms that are superior to the rights of our existing security holders. Depending upon our future results of operations, ability to further reduce costs as necessary and comply with our financing agreements, including financial covenants and ratios, we may require additional equity or debt financing. If future funds are raised through issuance of stock or convertible debt, these securities could have rights, privileges or preference senior to those of common stock. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities could also result in dilution to our current shareholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Any failure to maintain our FCC broadcast licenses could cause a default under our syndicated bank credit facility and cause an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our syndicated bank credit facility requires us to maintain our FCC licenses. If the FCC were to revoke any of our material licenses, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under the syndicated bank credit facility to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the amounts owed. Cancellations or reductions of advertising could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers, and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. We have experienced cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising from time to time in the past and more regularly during the global financial crisis and recession. These have affected, and could continue to affect, our revenue and results of operations, especially if we are unable to replace such advertising purchases. Many of our expenses are based, at least in part, on our expectations of future revenue and are therefore relatively fixed once budgeted. Therefore, weakness in advertising sales would adversely impact both our revenue and our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. We have recently recorded impairments of our television and radio assets. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $375 million and $981 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily attributable to acquisitions in recent years. At the date of these acquisitions, the fair value 28 Table of Contents of the acquired goodwill and intangible assets equaled its book value. At least annually, we test our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. In the third quarter of 2008, we determined that our radio reporting unit carrying value exceeded its fair value for which we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $54 million. At that time, we also determined that the carrying values of certain radio and television FCC licenses exceeded their fair values and we recognized impairment charges of $332 million and $54 million, respectively. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we had an additional impairment charge of $79 million of goodwill in our radio reporting unit, $81 million of our radio FCC licenses, $5 million of our television FCC licenses and $5 million of our television syndicated programming contracts, or a total of $610 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Appraisals of any of our reporting units or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination of impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually on October 1 for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that our assets might be impaired. Such circumstances may include, among other things, a further significant decrease in our revenues, decrease in prevailing broadcast transaction multiples, deterioration in broadcasting industry revenues, adverse market conditions, and a further significant decrease in our market capitalization. Appraisals of any of our reporting units or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination of impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been notified that we do not currently comply with a certain NYSE continued listing requirement. On December 15, 2008, we received notice from the NYSE that we have fallen below the continued listing standard regarding price criteria for capital or common stock. The relevant standard requires that a listed company’s common stock have a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share during any consecutive 30-day trading period. Under the NYSE’s rules, we have six months from the date of the notice for our average closing share price to rise above $1.00 for the 30 trading days preceding the end of the period. Subsequent to receiving this notice, we have been further advised that the NYSE has suspended the $1.00 minimum price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. If we are unable to comply with this requirement by the relevant deadline, our common stock could be delisted by the NYSE. Additionally, another continued listing requirement of the NYSE requires a listed company to maintain a global market capitalization of at least $25 million over any 30-day trading period. This threshold has recently been lowered temporarily by the NYSE to $15 million until June 30, 2009. If a listed company does not comply with the global market capitalization listing requirement, its stock will likely be delisted by the NYSE. As of the date of the filing of this report, our global market capitalization was greater than $15 million but less than $25 million. We are currently considering various actions we may take in order to comply with the NYSE’s continued listing requirements, but as of the date of the filing of this report, we have not made any decisions regarding any such actions. There can be no assurance that we can continue to comply with the listing requirements of the NYSE. We cannot at this time anticipate what the effect of a delisting from the NYSE might be; however, among other things, it could adversely affect our ability to raise capital or the terms, if any, for any equity or debt financings that might be available to us. 29 Table of Contents Univision’s ownership of our Class U common stock may make some transactions difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support. Univision is the holder of all of our issued and outstanding Class U common stock. Although the Class U common stock has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors, Univision does have the right to approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving our company, any dissolution of our company and any assignment of the FCC licenses for any of our Univision-affiliated television stations. Univision’s ownership interest may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support. Univision’s future divestiture of a portion of its equity interest in our company could adversely affect the market price of our securities. Univision currently owns approximately 15% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis. As of December 31, 2005, Univision owned approximately 30% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis. In connection with its merger with Hispanic Broadcasting Corporation in September 2003, Univision entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, pursuant to which Univision agreed, among other things, to ensure that its percentage ownership of our company would not exceed 10% by March 26, 2009. Univision’s required divestiture of a significant portion of its remaining equity interest in our company, whether in a single transaction or a series of transactions, could depress the market value of our Class A common stock. Our television ratings and revenue could decline significantly if our affiliation relationship with Univision or Univision’s programming success changes in an adverse manner. If our affiliation relationship with Univision changes in an adverse manner, or if Univision’s programming success diminishes or its financial condition is adversely affected by the continuing global financial crisis and ongoing recession, or otherwise, our ability to generate television advertising revenue on which our television business depends could be negatively affected. Univision’s ratings might decline or Univision might not continue to provide programming, marketing, available advertising time and other support to its affiliates on the same basis as currently provided. If Univision were to stop providing programming to us for any reason, and we were unable to obtain replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, by aligning ourselves closely with Univision, we might forego other opportunities that could diversify our television programming and avoid dependence on Univision’s television networks. Univision’s relationships with Televisa and Venevision are important to Univision’s, and consequently our, continued success. If Televisa were to stop providing programming to Univision for any reason, and Univision were unable to provide us with replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because three of our directors and officers, and stockholders affiliated with them, hold the majority of our voting power, they can ensure the outcome of most matters on which our stockholders vote. As of December 31, 2008, Walter F. Ulloa, Philip C. Wilkinson and Paul Zevnik together hold approximately 83% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. Each of Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik is a member of our board of directors, and Messrs. Ulloa and Wilkinson also serve as executive officers of our company. In addition to their shares of our Class A common stock, collectively they own all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, which have ten votes per share on any matter subject to a vote of the stockholders. Accordingly, Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have the ability to elect each of the members of our board of directors. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have agreed contractually to vote their shares to elect themselves as directors of our company. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik, acting in concert, also have the ability to control the outcome of most matters requiring stockholder approval. This control may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of our company, such as a merger or sale of the company. 30 Table of Contents Stockholders who desire to change control of our company may be prevented from doing so by provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the amended credit facility agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility. In addition, other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue preferred stock on terms that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The issuance of preferred stock could also negatively affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition or sale of our business. In addition, the credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains limitations on our ability to enter into a change of control transaction. Under this agreement, the occurrence of a change of control, in some cases after notice and grace periods, would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Displacement of any of our low-power television stations could cause our ratings and revenue for any such station to decrease. A significant portion of our television stations is licensed by the FCC for low-power service only. Our low-power television stations operate with less power and coverage than our full-power stations. The FCC rules under which we operate provide that low-power television stations are treated as a secondary service. If any or all of our low-power stations are found to cause interference to full-power stations, we would be required to eliminate the interference or terminate service. As a result of the FCC’s initiation of digital television service and actions by Congress to reclaim broadcast spectrum, channels 52-69, previously used for broadcasting, will be cleared and put up for auction generally to wireless services or assignment to public safety services. In a few urban markets where we operate, including Washington, D.C. and San Diego, there are a limited number of alternative channels to which our low-power television stations could migrate as they are displaced by full-power digital broadcasters and non-broadcast services. If we are unable to move the signals of our low-power television stations to replacement channels to the extent legally required, or such channels do not permit us to maintain the same level of service, we may be unable to maintain the viewership these stations currently have, which could harm our ratings and advertising revenue or, in the worst case, cause us to discontinue operations at these low-power television stations. The FCC requirement for us to convert to digital television may not result in commercial benefit unless there is sufficient consumer demand. Until commercial demand for digital television services increases, these digital operations may not prove commercially beneficial. Our stations may continue to broadcast analog signals until the June 12, 2009 deadline for conversion to digital-only operations. Once broadcast television becomes digital-only, we expect that sufficient demand will exist. Because our full-service television stations rely on “retransmission consent” rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of our cable carriage rights could have a material adverse impact on our television operations. We no longer rely on “must carry” rights to obtain the retransmission of our full-service television stations on MVPDs. We are now engaged, through our network program supplier, in negotiating retransmission consent agreements, pursuant to which we could secure consideration in return for the carriage of our broadcast signals by cable television. Until the completion of these negotiations, we are uncertain as to what MVPDs will carry our 31 Table of Contents stations, the terms and conditions of our stations’ carriage and the compensation we might receive. New laws or regulations could affect retransmission consent rights and the negotiating process between broadcasters and MVPDs. Our low-power television stations do not have cable “must carry” rights. Some of our low-power television stations are carried on cable systems as they provide broadcast programming the cable systems desire and are part of the retransmission consent negotiations we are currently engaged in. Where MVPDs are not contractually required to carry our low-power stations, we may face future uncertainty with respect to the availability of cable carriage for our low-power stations. Carriage of our signals on direct broadcast satellite services is subject to direct broadcast satellite companies providing local broadcast signals in the television markets we serve and our decision as to the terms upon which our signals will be carried. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999, or SHVIA, allowed DBS television companies, which are currently DirecTV and EchoStar/Dish Network, for the first time to transmit local broadcast television station signals back to their subscribers in local markets. In exchange for this privilege, however, SHVIA required that in television markets in which a DBS company elects to pick up and retransmit any local broadcast station signals, the DBS provider must also offer to its subscribers signals from all other qualified local broadcast television stations in that market. Our broadcast television stations in markets for which DBS operators have elected to carry local stations have sought to qualify for carriage under this “carry one/carry all” rule. SHVIA expired in 2004 and Congress adopted the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, or SHVERA, which expires in 2009. The SHVERA legislation extended the “carry one/carry all” rule. In that we have decided to secure our carriage on DBS through retransmission consent agreements, the “carry one/carry all” rule no longer is relevant to us. The FCC’s new ownership rules could lead to increased market power for our competitors. On June 2, 2003, the FCC revised its national ownership policy, modified television and cross-ownership restrictions, and changed its methodology for defining radio markets. Ultimately, the only rules that were adopted were those dealing with the determination of the number of local radio stations in local radio markets and loosening the limitations on newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership. Congress has also indicated its concern over the FCC’s new rules and legislation has been considered to restrict the changes. To date, however, only a reduction in the nationwide television cap, to 39% of the viewing public, has been the subject of federal legislation. Accordingly, the impact of changes in the FCC’s restrictions on how many stations a party may own, operate and/or control and on our future acquisitions and competition from other companies is limited, but, in connection with local radio ownership and newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership, could result in our competitors’ (including newspaper owners’) ability to increase their presence in the markets in which we operate. Available Information We make available free of charge on our corporate website, www.entravision.com, the following reports, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC: • our annual report on Form 10-K; • our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and • our current reports on Form 8-K. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated by reference into this or any other filing we make with the SEC. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 