ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Part II of this Report, contains certain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements contain estimates of, or our expectations, beliefs or views regarding, our future financial performance, which are based on current information and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results and financial performance in the future to differ, possibly significantly, from set forth in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, for that reason, you should not place undue reliance on those forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: We face intense competition from other banks and financial institutions that could hurt our business We conduct our business operations in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by a relatively small number of large multi-state banks with operations and offices covering wide geographical areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and 20 Table of Contents investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services. The larger banks, and some of those other financial institutions, have greater resources that enable them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. Some of these banks and institutions also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits that enable them to attract larger clients, and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, particularly with respect to attracting loans and deposits. Increased competition may prevent us (i) from achieving increases, or could even result in decreases, in our loan volume or deposit balances, or (ii) from increasing interest rates on loans or reducing interest rates we pay to attract or retain deposits, any of which could cause a decline in our interest income or an increase in our interest expense, that could lead to reductions in our net interest income and earnings. Adverse changes in economic conditions in Southern California could disproportionately harm our business The large majority of our customers and the properties securing a large proportion of our loans are located in Southern California. A downturn in economic conditions or the occurrence of natural disasters in Southern California could harm our business by: • reducing loan demand which, in turn, would lead to reduced net interest margins and net interest income; • affecting the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to make additional provisions for possible loan losses, thereby reducing our earnings; and • causing reductions in real property values that, due to our reliance on real property to secure many of our loans, could make it more difficult for us to prevent losses from being incurred on non-performing loans through the sale of such real properties. Additionally, real estate values in California have been increasing rapidly in recent years. In the event that these values are not sustained or other events, such as earthquakes or fires, that may be more prevalent in Southern California than in other geographic areas, cause a decline in real estate values, our collateral coverage for our loans will be reduced and we may suffer increased loan losses. National economic conditions and changes in Federal Reserve monetary policies could affect our operating results Our ability to achieve and sustain our profitability is substantially dependent on our net interest income. Like most banking organizations and other depository institutions, our net interest income is affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including changes in market rates of interest which, in turn, are affected by changes in national economic conditions and national monetary policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board. From 2001 and continuing until June 30, 2004, the Federal Reserve Board followed a policy of reducing interest rates in an effort to stimulate the national economy. Those interest rate reductions, coupled with sluggishness in the economy, led to decreases in our net interest margin during 2003 and made it more difficult to increase earnings. We cannot predict whether the improvement in the economy will continue, or whether the Federal Reserve Board’s increases in interest rates that began in the second half of 2004 and, to date, has totaled 325 basis points, will enable us to increase our net interest margins. On the other hand, the benefits of increased market rates of interest may be offset, partially or in whole, because those increases will increase the costs of attracting deposits and obtaining borrowings. If we are unable to effectuate commensurate increases in the rates we are able to charge on existing or new loans due to competitive pressures or contractual restrictions on our ability to increase interest rates on existing loans, our net interest margin may suffer despite the increase in interest rates. Changes in economic conditions and increasing rates of interest also could cause prospective borrowers to fail to qualify for our loan products and reduce loan demand, thereby reducing our net interest margins. In addition, if economic conditions or real property values were to decline, that could adversely affect the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to increase the provisions we make for possible loan losses. 21 Table of Contents Expansion of existing financial centers might not achieve expected growth or increases in profitability We have grown substantially in the past six years by (i) opening new financial centers in population centers, and (ii) adding banking professionals at our existing financial centers, with the objective of attracting additional customers including, in particular, small to medium size businesses, that will add to our profitability. We intend to continue that growth strategy. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in achieving this objective. Implementation of this strategy requires us to incur expenses in establishing new financial centers or adding banking professionals, long before we are able to attract, and with no assurance that we will succeed in attracting, a sufficient number of new customers that will enable us to generate the revenues needed to increase our profitability. As a result, our earnings could decline if we are unable to successfully implement this strategy. We could incur losses on the loans we make The failure or inability of borrowers to repay their loans is an inherent risk in the banking business. We take a number of measures designed to reduce this risk, including the maintenance of stringent loan underwriting policies and the establishment of reserves for possible loan losses and the requirement that borrowers provide collateral that we could sell in the event they fail to pay their loans. However, the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, the adequacy of our reserves and our ability to sell collateral for amounts sufficient to offset loan losses are affected by a number of factors outside of our control, such as changes in economic conditions, increases in market rates of interest and changes in the condition or value of the collateral securing our loans. As a result, we could incur losses on the loans we make that will hurt our operating results and weaken our financial condition. Government regulations may impair our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and other customers and not shareholders, whose respective interests will often differ. The regulatory agencies have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking institutions, even if those restrictions would adversely affect the ability of the banking institution to expand its business or pay cash dividends, or result in increases in its costs of doing business or hinder its ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or banks or financial service organizations that are less regulated. Additionally, due to the complex and technical nature of many of the government regulations to which banking organizations are subject, inadvertent violations of those regulations may occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations. If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. In February 2006, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco as a result of criticisms and concerns it had with respect to our mortgage loan regulatory compliance program. The Memorandum of Understanding requires us to take a number of actions that are designed to strengthen, and to satisfactorily resolve the criticisms and concerns expressed by the Federal Reserve Bank with respect to, that compliance program. Those actions include adopting new compliance procedures and policies and implementing new training programs for our lending staff that are designed (i) to assure greater oversight by management over our mortgage lending operations, (ii) to minimize failures by our lending personnel to meet the requirements of our mortgage lending regulatory compliance policies, and (iii) to enable us to identify and correct, in an expeditious manner, any compliance failures by our lending personnel. We expect that we will be able to address and resolve in a satisfactory manner the concerns of the Federal Reserve Bank and that neither the Memorandum of Understanding, nor the actions it requires us to take, will have a material effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. However, if we fail to implement the actions required by the Memorandum of Understanding or to satisfactorily resolve the concerns of the Federal Reserve Bank, it could impose restrictions on our business that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additional information regarding the Memorandum of Understanding is set forth in Part I of this Report under the caption “Supervision and Regulation”. 22 Table of Contents Our computer and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use to provide automated and internet banking services could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events and from security breaches. Any of those occurrences could result in damage to or a failure of our computer systems that could cause an interruption in our banking services or and, therefore, harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service, and security breaches that could result in the theft of confidential customer information, could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers. The loss of key personnel could hurt our financial performance Our success depends to a great extent on the continued availability of our existing management and, in particular, on Raymond E. Dellerba, our President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, our executive officers provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is partially based. As a result, the loss of the services of any of these officers could harm our ability to implement our business strategy or our future operating results. Evolving regulation of corporate governance may result in additional expenses and continuing uncertainty Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we already have invested significant resources, and expect in the future to invest additional resources, to comply with those laws, regulations and standards. This investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Also, if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards do not achieve the results or objectives intended by regulatory or governing bodies, our reputation may be harmed or we may be subject to litigation. Decision to Exit the Wholesale Mortgage Lending Business might not meet the expectations of Management In the second quarter of 2005 we decided to exit the wholesale mortgage lending business in order to concentrate our capital and other resources on our commercial banking business. There is no assurance that this decision will turn out to be successful, in terms of the objectives underlying that decision, including growing our commercial banking business and increasing the efficiency of our operations and our profitability. Other Risks Other risks that could affect our future financial performance are described in the Section entitled “Risk Factors” in the Prospectus dated December 8, 2003, included in our S-2 Registration Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and readers of this Report are urged to review those risks as well. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this Report or in the above-referenced Prospectus. 23 Table of Contents 