Risk Factors,” below. Regulation of Outdoor Advertising Outdoor advertising is subject to extensive governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Federal law, principally the Highway Beautification Act of 1965, regulates outdoor advertising on federally aided primary and interstate highways. As a condition to federal highway assistance, the Highway Beautification Act requires states to restrict billboards on such highways to commercial and industrial areas and imposes certain additional size, spacing and other limitations. All states have passed state billboard control statutes and regulations at least as restrictive as the federal requirements, including removal of any illegal signs on such highways at the owner’s expense and without compensation. No state in which we operate has banned billboards, but some have adopted standards more restrictive than the federal requirements. Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws. Some local governments prohibit construction of new billboards and some allow new construction only to replace existing structures, although most allow construction of billboards subject to restrictions on zones, size, spacing and height. The cities of Los Angeles and New York, our two major outdoor advertising markets, have each implemented or initiated billboard controls imposing taxes, fees and/or registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the type or number of outdoor signs. In Los Angeles, a moratorium on the construction of new billboards remains in place. In 2002, the city enacted an ordinance requiring the payment of an annual fee in connection with a new billboard inspection program, and we joined with other outdoor advertising companies in litigation challenging the validity of that ordinance and the amount of the fee. In December 2004, we entered into a settlement agreement with the City of Los Angeles pursuant to which we agreed to remove 500 8-sheet faces and pay a periodic inspection fee in exchange for the ability to maintain certain other 8-sheet faces that do not conform with their existing permits in one or more ways, as well as the ability to upgrade additional 8-sheets into City-Lights. The settlement was challenged by other outdoor advertising companies operating in the Los Angeles market, but in August 2005 the challenges were dropped. In New York, billboards are regulated primarily by provisions of the New York City Zoning Resolution and local municipal laws titled Local Law 14 of 2001 and Local Law 31 of 2005. The New York City Department of Buildings adopted a new rule, Rule 49, to implement Local Laws 14 and 31 and further regulate outdoor advertising within the city. Federal law does not require the removal of existing lawful billboards, but does require payment of compensation if a state or political subdivision compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a federally aided primary or interstate highway. State governments have purchased and removed legal billboards for beautification in the past, using federal funding for transportation enhancement programs, and may do so in the future. Governmental authorities from time to time use the power of eminent domain to remove billboards. Thus far, we have been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for any of our billboards purchased or removed as a result of governmental action, although there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. Local 26 Table of Contents governments do not generally purchase billboards for beautification, but some have attempted to force the removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations) after a period of years under a concept called “amortization,” by which the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation over time. Although there is some question as to the legality of amortization under federal and many state laws, amortization has been upheld in some instances. We generally have been successful in negotiating settlements with municipalities for billboards required to be removed. Restrictive regulations also limit our ability to rebuild or replace nonconforming billboards. The outdoor advertising industry is heavily regulated and at various times and in various markets can be expected to be subject to varying degrees of regulatory pressure affecting the operation of advertising displays. The outdoor advertising industry also is protected to varying degrees by state and federal legal, including constitutional, protections on expression. State and local governments from time to time also regulate the outdoor advertising of alcohol products. Alcohol-related advertising represented approximately 8% of the total revenue of our outdoor advertising business in 2007. As a matter of both company policy and industry practice (on a voluntary basis), we have not posted any alcohol advertisements within a 500 square foot radius of any school, church or hospital. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses that, if continued, could adversely affect the market price of our securities and our ability to raise capital. We had net losses of approximately $43.1 million, $134.6 million and $9.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. If we cannot generate profits in the future, our failure to do so could adversely affect the market price of our securities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt. If we cannot raise required capital, we may have to curtail existing operations and our future growth through acquisitions. We may require significant additional capital for future acquisitions and general working capital and debt service needs. If our cash flow and existing working capital are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions and our general working capital and debt service requirements, we will have to raise additional funds by selling equity, refinancing some or all of our existing debt or selling assets or subsidiaries. None of these alternatives for raising additional funds may be available on acceptable terms to us or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our requirements. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds is limited by the terms of the credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility. Our failure to obtain any required new financing may, if needed, prevent future acquisitions. Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of December 31, 2007, we had $480 million of debt outstanding under our syndicated bank credit facility. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to servicing our debt obligations, and our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited. We may not have sufficient future cash flow to meet our debt payments, or we may not be able to refinance any of our debt at maturity. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to our lenders as collateral. Our lenders could proceed against the collateral to repay outstanding indebtedness if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations. If the amounts outstanding under our syndicated bank credit facility are accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to such lenders. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, such as: • limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; and 27 Table of Contents • placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who have less debt. The credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains various covenants that limit management’s discretion in the operation of our business and could limit our ability to grow and compete. The credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains various provisions that limit our ability to: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments, capital expenditures and other restricted payments; • create liens; • sell assets; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. These provisions restrict management’s ability to operate our business in accordance with management’s discretion and could limit our ability to grow and compete. If we fail to comply with any of our financial covenants or ratios under our financing agreements, our lenders could: • elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or • terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit. Any failure to maintain our FCC broadcast licenses could cause a default under our syndicated bank credit facility and cause an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our syndicated bank credit facility requires us to maintain our FCC licenses. If the FCC were to revoke any of our material licenses, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under the syndicated bank credit facility to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the amounts owed. Cancellations or reductions of advertising could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers, and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. Cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising could adversely affect our revenue, especially if we are unable to replace such purchases. Our expense levels are based, in part, on expected future revenue and are relatively fixed once set. Therefore, unforeseen fluctuations in advertising sales could adversely impact our operating results. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $981 million at December 31, 2007, primarily attributable to acquisitions in recent years. At the date of these acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired goodwill and intangible assets equaled its book value. At least annually, we test our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. In 2007, we 28 Table of Contents determined that our outdoor reporting unit carrying value exceeded its fair value less costs to sell for which we recognized an impairment charge of $79.5 million. Appraisals of any of our reporting units or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination of impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Univision’s ownership of our Class U common stock may make some transactions difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support. Univision is the holder of all of our issued and outstanding Class U common stock. Although the Class U common stock has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors, Univision does have the right to approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving our company, any dissolution of our company and any assignment of the FCC licenses for any of our Univision-affiliated television stations. Univision’s ownership interest may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support. Univision’s future divestiture of a portion of its equity interest in our company could adversely affect the market price of our securities. Univision currently owns less than 15% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis. As of December 31, 2005, Univision owned approximately 30% of our common stock on a fully-converted basis. In connection with its merger with Hispanic Broadcasting Corporation in September 2003, Univision entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, pursuant to which Univision agreed, among other things, to ensure that its percentage ownership of our company would not exceed 15% by March 26, 2006 and will not exceed 10% by March 26, 2009. Univision’s required divestiture of a significant portion of its remaining equity interest in our company over the next year, whether in a single transaction or a series of transactions, could depress the market value of our Class A common stock. Our television ratings and revenue could decline significantly if our affiliation relationship with Univision or Univision’s programming success changes in an adverse manner. If our affiliation relationship with Univision changes in an adverse manner, or if Univision’s programming success diminishes, our ability to generate television advertising revenue on which our television business depends could be negatively affected. Univision’s ratings might decline or Univision might not continue to provide programming, marketing, available advertising time and other support to its affiliates on the same basis as currently provided. Additionally, by aligning ourselves closely with Univision, we might forego other opportunities that could diversify our television programming and avoid dependence on Univision’s television networks. Univision’s relationships with Televisa and Venevision are important to Univision’s, and consequently our, continued success. Univision and Televisa are currently involved in litigation over programming provided to Univision by Televisa, and we cannot predict the outcome of their litigation or the effect that the outcome might have on our business or our results of operations. However, if Televisa were to stop providing programming to Univision as a result of this litigation or for any other reason, and Univision were unable to provide us with replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Because three of our directors and officers, and stockholders affiliated with them, hold the majority of our voting power, they can ensure the outcome of most matters on which our stockholders vote. As of December 31, 2007, Walter F. Ulloa, Philip C. Wilkinson and Paul Zevnik together hold approximately 80% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. Each of Messrs. 29 Table of Contents Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik is a member of our board of directors, and Messrs. Ulloa and Wilkinson also serve as executive officers of our company. In addition to their shares of our Class A common stock, collectively they own all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, which have ten votes per share on any matter subject to a vote of the stockholders. Accordingly, Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have the ability to elect each of the members of our board of directors. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have agreed contractually to vote their shares to elect themselves as directors of our company. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik, acting in concert, also have the ability to control the outcome of most matters requiring stockholder approval. This control may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of our company, such as a merger or sale of the company. Stockholders who desire to change control of our company may be prevented from doing so by provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility. In addition, other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue preferred stock on terms that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The issuance of preferred stock could also negatively affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition or sale of our business. In addition, the credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains limitations on our ability to enter into a change of control transaction. Under this agreement, the occurrence of a change of control, in some cases after notice and grace periods, would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Displacement of any of our low-power television stations could cause our ratings and revenue for any such station to decrease. A significant portion of our television stations is licensed by the FCC for low-power service only. Our low-power television stations operate with less power and coverage than our full-power stations. The FCC rules under which we operate provide that low-power television stations are treated as a secondary service. If any or all of our low-power stations are found to cause interference to full-power stations, we would be required to eliminate the interference or terminate service. As a result of the FCC’s initiation of digital television service and actions by Congress to reclaim broadcast spectrum, channels 52-69, previously used for broadcasting, will be cleared and put up for auction generally to wireless services or assignment to public safety services. In a few urban markets where we operate, including Washington, D.C. and San Diego, there are a limited number of alternative channels to which our low-power television stations could migrate as they are displaced by full-power digital broadcasters and non-broadcast services. If we are unable to move the signals of our low-power television stations to replacement channels to the extent legally required, or such channels do not permit us to maintain the same level of service, we may be unable to maintain the viewership these stations currently have, which could harm our ratings and advertising revenue or, in the worst case, cause us to discontinue operations at these low-power television stations. The FCC requirement for us to convert to digital television may not result in commercial benefit unless there is sufficient consumer demand. Until commercial demand for digital television services increases, these digital operations may not prove commercially beneficial. Our stations may continue to broadcast analog signals until the February 17, 2009 deadline for conversion to digital-only operations. Once broadcast television becomes digital-only, we expect that sufficient demand will exist. 30 Table of Contents Because our full-service television stations rely on “must carry” rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of our cable carriage rights could have a material adverse impact on our television operations. The extent of the “must carry” rights television stations will have after they make the transition to DTV could still be changed as the DTV transition is implemented. New laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of our cable carriage rights could have a material adverse impact on our television operations. We cannot predict what final rules the FCC ultimately will adopt or what effect those rules will have on our business. We are considering whether, in the future, to continue to elect “must-carry” treatment or to negotiate retransmission consent agreements, pursuant to which we could secure consideration in return for the carriage of our broadcast signals by cable television. Our low-power television stations do not have cable “must carry” rights. Some of our low-power television stations are carried on cable systems as they provide broadcast programming the cable systems desire. We may face future uncertainty with respect to the availability of cable carriage for our stations in seven markets where we currently hold only a low-power license. Carriage of our signals on direct broadcast satellite services is subject to direct broadcast satellite companies providing local broadcast signals in the television markets we serve and our decision as to the terms upon which our signals will be carried. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999, or SHVIA, allowed DBS television companies, which are currently DirecTV and EchoStar/Dish Network, for the first time to transmit local broadcast television station signals back to their subscribers in local markets. In exchange for this privilege, however, SHVIA required that in television markets in which a DBS company elects to pick up and retransmit any local broadcast station signals, the DBS provider must also offer to its subscribers signals from all other qualified local broadcast television stations in that market. Our broadcast television stations in markets for which DBS operators have elected to carry local stations have sought to qualify for carriage under this “carry one/carry all” rule. The SHVIA expired in 2004 and Congress adopted the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, or SHVERA. The SHVERA legislation extended the “carry one/carry all” rule. We have historically asserted “must carry” rights where DBS operators were providing local-into-local service. We are considering whether, in the future, to elect “must carry” treatment or to negotiate retransmission consent agreements pursuant to which we would secure consideration in return for the carriage of our broadcast signals by DBS services. The FCC’s new ownership rules could lead to increased market power for our competitors. On June 2, 2003, the FCC revised its national ownership policy, modified television and cross-ownership restrictions, and changed its methodology for defining radio markets. Ultimately, the only rules that were adopted were those dealing with the determination of the number of local radio stations in local radio markets and loosening the limitations on newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership. Congress has also indicated its concern over the FCC’s new rules and legislation has been considered to restrict the changes. To date, however, only a reduction in the nationwide television cap, to 39% of the viewing public, has been the subject of federal legislation. Accordingly, the impact of changes in the FCC’s restrictions on how many stations a party may own, operate and/or control and on our future acquisitions and competition from other companies is limited, but, in connection with local radio ownership and newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership, could result in our competitors’ (including newspaper owners’) ability to increase their presence in the markets in which we operate. The sale of our outdoor advertising operations has not yet closed. In February 2008, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our outdoor advertising business to Lamar Advertising Co. for $100 million in cash. The sale is expected to close in the second quarter of 2008. Upon the 31 Table of Contents consummation of the transaction, we will no longer have outdoor advertising operations. However, unless and until such time, we will continue to own and operate our outdoor advertising assets held for sale, subject to all required laws, rules and regulations that apply to that aspect of our business, as well as to continue to incur all financial obligations with respect to that business. Available Information We make available free of charge on our corporate website, www.entravision.com, the following reports, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC: • our annual report on Form 10-K; • our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and • our current reports on Form 8-K. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated by reference into this or any other filing we make with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 