Item 1A. Risk Factors. THIS ANNUAL REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT COULD CAUSE OUR ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE DISCUSSED IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT. THESE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING: Difficulties encountered during challenging and changing economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and operating results depend to a significant extent on economic conditions in general and on IT spending and the server market in particular, and we expect our revenue growth rate to fluctuate in relation to economic conditions and IT-related spending trends. Any adverse change in IT spending or in the server market due to adverse economic conditions, declining capital spending levels, or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. World-wide efforts to cut capital spending, general economic uncertainty, and a weakening global economy could have a material adverse effect on us. The current financial crisis could have an impact on our business in a variety of ways, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, bank failure or governmental takeover of financial instituitions, and customer insolvencies. In addition, we continue to see industry-wide initiatives by OEMs and by distributors and resellers of our hardware products to reduce their inventories and to shorten their lead times, thereby reducing early commitments to firm orders by our major OEM and distributor and reseller customers. If we are unable to effectively manage during the current challenging and changing economic conditions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, technologies and companies and these acquisitions could disrupt our business or expose us to other risks. A key component of our engineering and product development strategy and our future growth is the investment in or the acquisition of technologies and companies. We intend to continue to execute our strategy through the acquisition of technologies or companies or through investments in complementary companies, products, personnel, or technologies, and it 12 is likely we will complete such acquisitions or investments in the future. These acquisitions and investments involve many risks and factors outside our control, including the following: · Difficulty integrating the acquired company’s personnel, distribution channels, products, product roadmaps, technologies, systems, processes, and operations, including product development, product delivery, order management, and information systems; · Difficulty in conforming the acquired company’s financial policies and practices to our policies and practices and in implementing and maintaining adequate internal systems and controls over the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired company; · Diversion of management’s attention and disruption of our current business and the challenges associated with managing the resulting larger company following any acquisition; · Difficulty in combining product and technology offerings and entering into new markets or geographical areas in which we have no or limited direct experience and where our competitors may have stronger market positions; · Loss (at either Avocent or in the acquired company) of management, sales, technical, or other key personnel or the loss of customers, distributors, resellers, vendors, or other business relationships as a result of the acquisition; · Revenue or deferred revenue from the acquired company not meeting our expectation, and the potential loss of the acquired company’s customers, distributors, resellers, suppliers, or other partners; · Delays or difficulties and the attendant expense in evaluating, coordinating, and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development, operations, facilities, and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, including financial controls and controls over information systems; · Difficulty in completing projects associated with acquired in-process research and development; · Incurring amortization expense related to certain intangible assets and recording goodwill and non-amortizable assets that will be subject to impairment testing and possible impairment charges; · Dilution of existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities, including the assumption of any stock options or other equity issued by the acquired company; · Overpayment for any acquisition or investment or unanticipated costs or liabilities; · Assumption of liabilities of the acquired company, including any potential intellectual property infringement or other litigation claims, the liabilities and obligations under the acquired company’s existing agreements, and any unrecorded tax obligations; and · Incurring substantial write-offs, restructuring charges, interest expense, amortization, and transactional expenses. Our integration plans and indemnification and escrow agreements might fail to adequately mitigate these risks and factors, and our failure to manage these risks and challenges could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, if we do not successfully address these challenges in a timely manner, we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies on which the value of a transaction was based. Future transactions could cause our financial results to differ materially from expectations of market analysts or investors for any given quarter. 13 Our impairment testing may indicate we have an impairment of goodwill and require us to take an impairment charge. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we have performed an annual impairment test of goodwill in each of the fourth quarter of 2008, 2007, and 2006. Our testing in the fourth quarter of each year concluded that there had been no impairment of goodwill and that no adjustments were required. While our testing in 2008 indicated that there was no goodwill impairment, we noted certain factors during the 2008 testing that will require monitoring and may require additional testing prior to our next scheduled test in the fourth quarter of 2009. With the broad-based decline in the stock market, our market capitalization has declined to less than the book value of our shareholders’ equity after year end and through the date of this filing. We believe the reduction in our market capitalization is a short term anomaly and is not indicative of our true value as a whole nor the value of our individual reporting units. Although our testing indicated there was no impairment for our LANDesk reporting unit in the 2008 test, LANDesk carries a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, including those added in the recent Touchpaper acquisition. The value of these intangible assets resulted in the carrying value of LANDesk being marginally below the indicated fair value calculated through our impairment testing. As a result of these factors and due to the current recessionary environment and the resulting impact on our business, we are monitoring our stock price, control premium, and other conditions in relation to potential additional goodwill impairment testing, and we intend to perform an additional test for goodwill impairment in the first quarter of 2009. There is a risk that there may be an impairment in the future requiring an adjustment to the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, and we may be required to take an impairment charge. If so, any charge could have material adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations. Intense competition from new and existing competitors or consolidation in the industry could impair our ability to grow our business, to sustain our profitability, and to sell our products and technologies. The markets for our products and technologies are highly fragmented, rapidly evolving, and intensely competitive, and we expect these characteristics to continue and increase. Aggressive competition from both hardware and software products and technologies could lengthen the customer evaluation process and result in price reductions and loss of sales, which would materially harm our business. Our business is highly sensitive to the introduction of new products and technologies (such as virtualization), price changes, and marketing efforts by numerous and varied competitors. Accordingly, our future success will be highly dependent upon our timely completion and introduction of new products, technologies, and features at competitive prices and performance levels that address changing industry trends and the evolving needs of our customers. We continue to experience aggressive price competition and increased customer sensitivity to product prices, and pricing and margin pressures are likely to increase in the future. Because of this competition, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and technologies or offer greater functionality within our products without increasing prices to deliver greater value to customers to stay competitive, while at the same time trying to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures and the loss of revenue, our gross and operating margins and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing, functionality, and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. We compete for sales of switching systems and extension products with companies such as Raritan Computer, Rose Electronics, Minicom Advanced Systems, Aten International, Belkin, Digi International, and Lantronix. These products also face competition from software providers (such as Microsoft, Computer Associates, Tivoli, Symantec, Novell, AMI, and BMC Software), who may be able to offer software products competitive with our hardware products at a much lower cost or even bundled for free with their other products, and from server manufacturers (including our OEM customers), who are able to offer their competitive technologies or products at the time of the server sale. These competitive software and hardware products address many of the problems our switching systems and technologies, extension products, and remote access products are designed to address. We compete for sales of our systems management and security products with companies such as Microsoft, Computer Associates, BMC Software, Novell, and Symantec, many of whom have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, a larger customer base, a longer operating history, greater name recognition, and more established relationships in the industry than we do, and may offer their own or third-party competitive software products at a lower cost or bundled for free with their other products. Microsoft, in particular, has delivered competitive products and announced its intention to continue to develop competitive software, and if it is successful in delivering software products that are competitive with our products, our ability to grow our software business may be limited. 14 Our current and potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or products and to changes in customer requirements or to devote greater resources to the research, development, promotion, sale, and support of their products and technologies than we do. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that expand or enhance the ability of their products and technologies to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. Some of these competitors can also bundle hardware, software, and services together, and offer a more complete set of products and services than we are able to offer. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and competitive pressure may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows, or impair our ability to achieve our desired results. Certain of our customers, such as Dell, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, Microsoft, and Symantec presently offer competitive hardware and/or software products and technologies that address many of the problems our products and technologies address. These customers could decide to manufacture or enhance their own switching, IPMI, or other embedded technologies, or systems management, security, and service desk products, or offer products or technologies supplied by competitors. Companies with hardware manufacturing experience or network management products, many of which are substantially larger than we are and have significantly more financial resources than we do, also offer products or technologies that compete with us. Established companies with hardware manufacturing or network management experience (such as Intel, Cisco, or EMC) could also offer new products, new technologies (such as virtualization), or new solutions that compete with, or reduce the demand for, our products and technologies. There has been consolidation in the markets in which we compete, which we believe will continue and could lead to increased price competition and other forms of competition as companies attempt to maintain or extend their market positions in the rapidly changing IT industry. In addition, we may face competition in the future from large established companies or from emerging companies that have not previously entered the market or that do not currently have products that directly compete with our products. This could lead to more variability in our operating results for a variety of reasons including the lengthening of the customer evaluation process and/or the loss of business to these competitors, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our gross margins are expected to vary and may decline. Gross margins may vary or decline from period-to-period and may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: · The ratio of OEM sales to branded sales, since OEM sales typically have lower gross margins than branded sales; · The ratio of sales through indirect channels to direct sales, since indirect sales typically have lower gross margins than direct sales; · The ratio of sales in established markets to sales in new markets with different pricing and cost structures; · Sales of lower margin products or other changes in our product mix, because sales of some of our products and technologies will have lower gross margins than sales of other products or technologies (e.g. our software products tend to have higher gross margins); · Increased price competition; · Changes in product costs and sales discounts; · Changes in raw materials, freight, regulatory, certification, import or export expenses, tariffs, and labor costs; · Introduction of new products, services, business models, and technologies by us and by our competitors; · The level of and costs for third-party technology and code used in our software products; and · The level of and costs for outsourcing of our manufacturing and assembly services for our hardware products and the impact this can have on our inventory valuation of older products. 15 We expect that our gross margins may vary and may decline in the future primarily due to the factors listed above and to increased competition and the introduction of new products and technologies that may affect product prices and demand for our products. We have limited protection of proprietary rights and face risks of third-party infringements. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and protect proprietary rights in our products and technologies. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by invoking the benefits of the patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and unfair competition laws of the United States and other countries and the protections provided by confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other legal agreements. These laws and practices, however, afford only limited protection. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, or that the steps we take in the future, will be adequate to prevent or detect misappropriation of our intellectual property or technologies or that our competitors will not independently develop proprietary or other technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products or technologies. In addition, our proprietary information may be misused or improperly disclosed by third parties entrusted with this information. There also can be no assurance that our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, or avoided. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued several patents to us for various aspects of our products. We have various corresponding patent applications pending under the provisions of the Patent Cooperation Treaty, which permits the filing of corresponding foreign patent applications in numerous foreign countries within a limited time period. We also have other United States and foreign patent applications pending. There can be no assurance that any additional patents will be issued from any of those pending applications or that any patents will be issued in any additional countries where our products can be sold. Claims allowed in our patents or in any pending patent applications may not be of sufficient scope or strength for, or provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us or such claims may not be upheld if challenged. Also, competitors may develop their own intellectual property or technologies, obtain their own patents, or challenge the validity of, or be able to design around, our patents. The laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured, or sold (particularly certain countries in Asia) may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus increase the likelihood of piracy of our technologies and products. We may initiate claims or litigation against other third parties for infringement of proprietary rights or to establish the validity of proprietary rights. Similarly, our competitors or other third parties may initiate claims or litigation against us alleging infringement of their proprietary rights or improper use of their intellectual property, and from time to time, third parties notify us that our products may infringe their intellectual property rights, which regardless of merit, requires our time and resources to evaluate and respond. Existing litigation, and any other litigation relating to intellectual property to which we become a party, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risk of counterclaims or other litigation against us, and we may not be successful in any such litigation. Dealing with adverse claims and litigation is very expensive, and the existing litigation or any other litigation by or against us could result in significant additional expense, divert the efforts of technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation results in a favorable determination, harm our relationships with existing customers, and deter future customers from purchasing or licensing our products. In the event of an adverse result in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, suspend or cease the development, manufacture, use, marketing, and sale of any infringing products, expend significant resources to redesign products or develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of certain processes, or obtain licenses to the infringing technology. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in such development or that such licenses would be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and any such development or license could require us to expend substantial time and other resources. In the event that any third party makes a successful claim against us, or our customers, and a license is not made available on commercially reasonable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, any dispute involving our intellectual property could result in our customers, distributors, or resellers becoming involved in the litigation, which could trigger indemnification obligations in certain of our sales, license, or service agreements. The IT industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights or positions, which has resulted in significant and often protracted and expensive litigation. We have in the past been, and we may from time to time in the future be, a party in litigation or other proceedings alleging infringement of intellectual property rights owned by third parties. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such intellectual property rights. However, licenses may not be offered on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us 16 could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or cease the manufacture of products requiring such technology. In addition, current or future competitors could obtain patents or other intellectual property rights that may prevent us from developing or selling our products. The result of these litigation matters is difficult to predict and an unfavorable resolution could affect our operating results, business, or financial condition. The resolution of litigation may have a negative impact on our operating results or financial condition. Our recently-announced restructuring may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our operating and financial results. In fiscal July 2008, and again in January 2009, we announced a series of actions designed to enhance competitiveness, improve our efficiency, and reduce our cost structure. We initiated workforce reduction and consolidation actions designed to intensify our focus on our growth areas and improve our operating efficiency. The restructuring includes actions to increase our organizational efficiency, reduce certain research and development investments in lower growth product areas, integrate our marketing functions, and shift support for our Asian operations from Shannon, Ireland, to our recently-established regional hub in Singapore. We are also relocating certain functions from Redmond, Washington to Huntsville, Alabama. The impact of these organizational improvements will result in a net decrease of approximately 273 positions or approximately 13% of our global workforce. In fiscal July 2008, we also announced that, as part of our continued focus on core markets, we intend to sell the portion of our entrepreneurial Connectivity and Controls business unit dedicated to our Professional Audio Video and our Equinox serial products. The restructuring activities could create uncertainty and confusion among our employees, customers, and suppliers. In addition, the restructuring activities might not result in the cost savings or efficiencies we anticipate and may result in temporary operational inefficiencies. As a result, these restructuring activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The factors described above also could disrupt our product development, manufacturing, and sales, which would affect our financial results. We are likely to experience fluctuations in operating results. We have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in revenue, bookings, and operating results, on a quarterly and an annual basis, and we expect these fluctuations will continue in the future. Our operating results will be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · The volume, timing, pricing, and contractual terms of orders, particularly from OEMs, resellers, and other large customers, a significant portion of which tend to occur late in each quarter; · The timing of shipments; · The unpredictable nature of the sales cycle for software products and the timing and completion of delivery of software products and any related services; · The timing of new product introductions, new technologies, and enhancements by us and by our competitors, and the possibility that customers may defer purchases of our products in anticipation of these new products, new technologies, and enhancements; · Changes in or our failure to accurately predict product or distribution and reseller channel mixes, including changes in the mix of software licenses in which revenue is recognized upfront as opposed to subscription licenses that are deferred over time and changes in the mix of revenue attributable to higher-margin products as opposed to lower-margin sales or services; · Changes in demand for our products and services; · Changes in pricing policies, price reductions, and channel programs; · Changes in laws, regulations, or other government requirements; · Changes in renewal rates for software upgrade protection or maintenance; · Competition from new products, technologies, business models, and price reductions by competitors; 17 · The availability and cost of supplies, components, or third-party code or content on commercially reasonable terms; · Compatibility or interoperability of our products with third-party systems and applications; · Sales and marketing expenses related to entering into new markets, introducing new products, new technologies, and retaining current OEMs, resellers, and other large customers; · Fluctuations in sales of servers and personal computers due to changes in technology (such as virtualization), economic conditions, or capital spending levels; · The amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business and operations; and · Costs associated with legal proceedings, including legal fees and any adverse judgments or settlements. Our operating results will continue to be affected by seasonal trends, by general conditions in the IT market, and by general economic conditions. Depending on the severity and longevity of the current economic crisis, we may see fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, some degree of seasonality due to customer buying cycles and delays in customer orders during unfavorable economic periods. We believe that the third and fourth quarters will generally have higher net sales levels due to customer budgeting and procurement cycles, which may depress net sales in other quarters. In addition, European sales are often weaker during the summer months. In the past, we have typically seen a sequential decline in revenue from the fourth quarter of a year to the first quarter of the following year, and while it is difficult to predict revenue in any quarter, we expect that this pattern will continue in the future. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Our quarterly sales have also reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter’s total sales occur toward the end of the quarter, and this trend has become more pronounced in recent periods. Our increased focus on the software market continues this trend with a greater proportion of our software revenue coming from software license and subscriptions booked in the last weeks or days of each quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes prediction of revenue, earnings, and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our hardware inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand for hardware is substantially greater than orders, there will be excess inventory. Alternatively, if hardware orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in the last few weeks of each quarter. Other developments late in a quarter, such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, actions or announcements from our competitors, global logistics disruptions, or large sales opportunities not being completed when predicted, could adversely impact inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. In addition, accounting requirements associated with satisfying the various elements necessary to recognize software revenue may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. In order to remain competitive and provide our increasingly sophisticated customers with more options, we have made and expect to continue to make new products and new software purchasing and licensing options available to our customers. These new products and options may result in an increase in contracts where software revenue is deferred or cash is received over time as opposed to recognition of revenue or payment at or about the time of the purchase or license. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our historical financial results are not meaningful indicators of our future operating results, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. If our quarterly operating results fail to meet the expectations of equity research analysts, the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. A large portion of our business consists of sales to a limited number of resellers and distributors that are not obligated to continue doing business with us, and these sales vary considerably from quarter to quarter. A large portion of our sales consists of sales of our branded products to a limited number of resellers and distributors. Sales to resellers and distributors represented approximately 60% of net sales in 2008, 61% of net sales in 2007, and 56% of net sales in 2006. The loss of significant revenue opportunities with these resellers and distributors could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, many of these customers also have or distribute competing products. If resellers and distributors elect to increase the marketing of competing products or reduced marketing of our products, our ability to grow our business will be negatively impacted and will impair one of our substantial revenue sources. 18 Our reseller and distributor business is subject to many risks, including: · Concentration of business in a limited number of resellers and distributors could result in significant damage to our business upon the termination of a reseller relationship; · Termination of reseller and distributor agreements or reduced or delayed orders; · Difficulty in predicting sales to resellers and distributors who do not have long-term commitments to purchase from us, which requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand; · Lack of visibility of end user customers and revenue recognition and channel inventory issues related to sales by resellers and distributors; · Resellers and distributors electing to resell or increase their marketing of competing products or technologies or reduced marketing of our products; and · Changes in corporate ownership, financial condition, credit worthiness, payment patterns, business direction, sales compensation related to our products, or product mix by the resellers and distributors. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressures and significant variability in orders from our resellers and distributors, which may in the future have a material adverse effect on our quarterly sales and operating results. The loss of one or more large resellers or distributors could materially harm our business. While we have reseller and distributor agreements, none of our resellers or distributors are obligated to purchase products from us. Consequently, any reseller or distributor could cease doing business with us at any time. Our dependence upon a few resellers and distributors could result in a significant concentration of credit risk, thus a substantial portion of our trade receivables outstanding from time to time may be concentrated among a limited number of customers. In addition, the inability to accurately forecast the timing and volume of orders for sales of branded products to resellers and distributors during any given quarter could adversely affect operating results for such quarter and, potentially, for future periods. If we underestimate sales, we will not be able to fill orders on a timely basis. This could cause customer dissatisfaction and loss of future business. If we overestimate sales, we will experience increased costs from inventory storage, waste, and obsolescence. We will need to expand our sales distribution channels in order to develop our business and increase revenue. We expect to rely increasingly on distributors and resellers, VARs, and systems integrators for the distribution and sale of our branded hardware and software products. Our strategy contemplates the expansion of our distributor and reseller networks both domestically and internationally, particularly in Asia, and an increase in the number of customers licensing our products through these expanded channels. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train, and motivate new distributors and resellers and expand our sales distribution channels. We may not be successful in expanding our distributor and reseller relationships. We will be required to invest significant additional resources in order to expand these relationships, and the cost of this investment may exceed the margins generated from this investment. Conducting business through indirect sales channels presents a number of risks, including: · Difficulties in replacing any lost or terminated distributors or resellers; · Existing or new distributors and resellers may not be able to effectively sell our current or future products or services; · Potential distributors and resellers deciding not to enter into relationships with us because of our existing relationships with other distributors and resellers with which they compete; · Our ability to provide proper training and technical support to our distributors and resellers; 19 · The possibility of damage or impairment to our market position, brands or trademarks as a result of the actions of our distributors and resellers; · Distributors and resellers electing to place greater emphasis on products or services offered by our competitors; and · The lack of direct control over the business practices, marketing, sales and services offered by distributors and resellers. As we expand our distribution and reseller channels, we will also need to expand our sales organization and invest substantial resources toward this expansion. We may experience difficulty in recruiting, training, and retaining qualified sales personnel, and any failure to obtain, train, and keep qualified personnel could limit our ability to sell products. In addition, distributors and resellers of our hardware products often have rights of return, and in the future, these returns from our existing or any new distributors and resellers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our agreements with our current distributors and resellers are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated on short notice by either party without cause, and any new distributor or reseller agreements are likely to contain similar provisions. Distributors and resellers are not obligated to purchase products from us and frequently offer products from several different companies, including competitors’ products, and distributors and resellers may give higher priority to the sale of our competitors’ products. A reduction in sales efforts or efficiency by our distributors or resellers could lead to a reduction in our sales and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A large portion of our business consists of sales to a limited number of OEM customers that are not obligated to continue doing business with us, and these sales vary considerably from quarter to quarter. A large portion of our sales is concentrated among a limited number of OEM customers. Aggregate sales to these OEMs represented approximately 33% of our net sales in 2008, 35% of net sales in 2007, and 40% of net sales in 2006. The following table identifies our customers that exceeded 10% of our net sales for the years 2008, 2007, and 2006: Percentage of Net Sales for the Year Ended December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Dell 11 % 13 % 14 % Hewlett-Packard <10 % 12 % 14 % Ingram Micro 13 % <10 % <10 % Tech Data <10 % 11 % 12 % We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, period-to-period variability in sales to these OEM customers. Any cancellation, rescheduling, or reduction of orders by OEM customers in the future could materially adversely affect our operating results. Although our OEM customers typically place orders for products up to several months prior to scheduled shipment dates, these orders are subject to cancellation. Our OEM business is subject to many risks, including: · Contract termination or reduced or delayed orders; · Short order cycles and difficulty in predicting sales because our OEM customers do not have long-term commitments to purchase from us; · Changes in the OEMs’ internal product life cycles including the delay of planned new product introductions and uncertainty over product end-of-life decisions; · Adoption of competing products or technologies developed by third parties for the OEMs, acquisition or internal development of competing products or technologies by the OEMs, or changes in the OEMs’ marketing of competing products or reduced marketing of our products; and · Changes in corporate ownership, financial condition, credit worthiness, payment patterns, business direction, sales compensation related to our products, or product mix by the OEMs. 20 Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, pricing pressures and significant variability in orders from our OEM customers, which may in the future have a material adverse effect on our quarterly sales and operating results. Although we are not substantially dependent on any one OEM customer, the loss of one or more large OEM customers would materially harm our business. While we have agreements with some of our OEM customers, these agreements are generally cancellable at the will of the OEM (generally subject to notice provisions), and none of our OEM customers is obligated to purchase products from us except pursuant to binding purchase orders or licensing agreements. Consequently, any OEM customer could cease doing business with us at any time. Our volume of sales from just a few OEMs also results in a significant concentration of credit risk, thus a large portion of our trade receivables outstanding from time to time may be concentrated among a limited number of customers. In addition, OEM customers have longer payment cycles that increase the likelihood of aged or problem accounts receivable. We use multiple warehouses for many of our OEM customers to fulfill their hardware orders under a just-in-time inventory management system, which requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels of our hardware products at each of these warehouses to satisfy anticipated demand from our OEM customers, and we generally recognize revenue only when these OEM customers take possession of our hardware products. We are required to plan production, order components, and undertake our manufacturing activities prior to the time that these orders become firm or the products are accepted. In addition, our OEM customers have requested, and are likely to continue to request from time to time, that we delay shipment dates or cancel orders for hardware products that are subject to firm orders. As a result, at any time we may be holding a significant amount of OEM-branded hardware products in inventory, and our sales to OEMs for future quarters are difficult to predict. The inability to accurately predict the timing and volume of hardware orders for our OEM customers during any given quarter could adversely affect operating results for that quarter and, potentially, for future quarters. If we underestimate sales, we may not be able to fill orders on a timely basis. This could cause customer dissatisfaction and loss of future business. If we overestimate sales, we may experience increased costs from inventory storage, waste, and obsolescence. Our failure to respond to rapid technological change or to introduce successful new products and technologies may result in reduced revenue or revenue growth. The process of developing or acquiring new products, software, and technologies and enhancing existing products, software, and technologies is complex, costly, and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations. Our products and technologies are characterized by rapid technological advances, frequent new product and technological introductions and enhancements, and significant price competition. If we do not keep pace with these changes, we will lose customers, and our business will be adversely affected. The introduction of products or technologies incorporating superior alternatives such as switching software, the emergence of new industry standards such as virtualization, or changes in pricing structure could render our existing products and technologies and those we have under development obsolete or unmarketable. New technologies offered by us or our competitors could compete with our existing products at a lower price, which could reduce our revenue. Our future success will depend in large part upon continued innovative application of commercially available components and software or technologies, continued enhancements to our proprietary hardware, software, firmware, and other technologies, the expansion and enhancement of existing products and technologies, and our development and introduction of new products and technologies that address changing industry trends (including virtualization) and customer needs on a cost-effective and timely basis. If we fail to respond on a timely basis to technological developments, changes in industry standards, customer requirements, competitive products, product localization, or software innovations, we will lose customers, and our business will be greatly harmed. Similar results could occur if we experience significant delays in the development or introduction of new products or technologies. We are dependent upon third-party suppliers and outsourced manufacturing for our hardware products. Disruption of our access to these supplies and services, or problems with the quality of supplies or services, could prevent us from filling customer orders and harm our business. The principal components of our hardware products are electronic components, power supplies, semiconductors, memory, cable assemblies, line filters, enclosures, and printed circuit boards, all of which are purchased from outside vendors. We generally buy components under purchase orders and generally do not have long-term agreements with our suppliers. Also, we generally do not maintain large inventories of components. Any termination of, or significant disruption of, our relationships with the suppliers of our product components may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner which could result in customer dissatisfaction and lost sales. 21 We have occasionally experienced, and we may in the future experience, shortages or delays in delivery of components. Although alternate suppliers are available for most of the components and services needed to produce our products, the number of suppliers of some components is limited, and qualifying a replacement supplier and receiving components from alternate suppliers could take several months. We have limited ability to control quality issues (particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties), and we depend upon suppliers to deliver components that are free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost, and in compliance with specifications and delivery schedules. Disruption in supply, a significant increase in the cost of one or more components, failure of a third-party supplier to remain competitive in functionality or price, or the failure of a supplier to comply with any of our procurement needs could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture and deliver our products to customers on a timely basis, thereby delaying our revenue recognition and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We rely on third-party manufacturers for subassembly of products and for final assembly, quality assurance, and testing of many of our products. These outsourcing arrangements and any future outsourcing arrangements involve numerous risks, including the economic and financial viability of these manufacturers, reduced control over product quality, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, and costs. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty obligations on the part of such manufacturers, we are primarily responsible to our customers for warranty obligations. Our hardware products are subject to warranty claims and returns. Increased warranty claims or returns could harm our business. We typically offer a 30-day unconditional money-back guarantee on our appliance products sold in North America. We also offer warranties for parts and service on our hardware products, ranging from one to three years (and, in the case of some of our Equinox branded products, five years). Although our historical return experience has not been significant, our returns may increase in the future. An increase in returns would have an adverse effect on our sales and could negatively affect our financial results. For our software products, sales are final and we do not generally allow any returns. We provide a 90-day limited warranty on the media used to deliver the software, which is not applicable to electronic downloads, and we generally provide a 90-day limited warranty (except where a longer period is required by law) that our products will function in accordance with the user documentation. In the future, we may, as a result of competitive pressures, requirements in certain geographies, or customer demands, change our warranty policies or our warranty terms to provide coverage that is greater in scope and duration than the coverage we currently offer. If we were to increase our warranty coverage, our risk of warranty claims, and therefore our warranty expense and reserves, would likely increase. We must meet the increased demands on customer service operations or customer satisfaction and sales could suffer. Continued growth of our sales is likely to be accompanied by increasing demands on our customer service operations. As a result of our commitment to a high level of customer service, we will need to invest significant resources in the maintenance and improvement of our customer service resources. Any failure to maintain adequate customer service could cause customer dissatisfaction, result in reduced sales of products, reductions in the renewals of software maintenance and support agreements for future periods, and, accordingly, materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully develop our international distribution and reseller networks and international sales efforts, results of operations may suffer. We are working to develop, integrate, and expand our international distribution and reseller networks in an effort to increase international sales and availability of our products. We may not be successful in developing or expanding the international distribution and reseller network or in marketing and selling products in foreign markets, particularly Asia. If the revenue generated by our international sales is not adequate to recover the expense of establishing, expanding, and maintaining an international distribution and reseller network, our business, financial condition, and results of operations 22 could be materially adversely affected. If international sales become a more significant component of net sales, our business could become more vulnerable to the risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including: · Difficulties in managing foreign distributors and resellers; · Longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; · The effects of seasonal customer demand; · Differing license terms and conditions to meet local requirements; · Changes in regulatory requirements; · Difficulties in meeting the requirements of different international product regulations, including import and export requirements, tariffs, and other trade barriers; · Risks relating to the protection of our intellectual property rights; · The impact on our marketing expenses and our research and development resources as we localize our product offerings to meet local user requirements such as language translations and hardware compatibility issues; · Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and · Potentially adverse tax consequences and political instability. The existence or occurrence of any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, increase our costs and expenses, and impair our financial condition. We are a global company with sales, manufacturing, and research and development efforts around the world. Sales outside the United States generate approximately half of our revenue, over half of our manufacturing takes place outside the United States, and we have research and development centers in several locations outside the United States. Accordingly, our business, operating results, future revenue, gross margin, expenses, and financial condition could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: · Ongoing instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, particularly in areas where we have offices or other facilities; · Currency fluctuations, which could contribute to variations in sales of products and technologies and could also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars; · Longer accounts receivable cycles and financial instability among customers; · Tax or trade regulations, tariffs, duties, and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing, and marketing of or payments for products; · Local labor conditions and other regulations; · Differing technology standards or customer requirements; · Limited or unfavorable intellectual property protection in certain foreign countries including the loss of proprietary information due to piracy or misappropriation; 23 · Fluctuations in freight costs and disruptions at important geographic points of exit and entry; · Natural or manmade disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, flooding, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, power shortages, blackouts, telecommunications failures, terrorism, or computer viruses; · Medical epidemics; · Seasonal reductions in business activity in certain foreign countries, such as the summer months in Europe; · Compliance with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties, and regulations that increase the risks of doing business in certain foreign countries; · Restrictions against repatriation of earnings from our international operations; · Difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including the difficulty in managing a geographically dispersed workforce; · Possible non-compliance with our Code of Conduct or other corporate policies due to inconsistent laws, interpretations, and/or application of corporate standards in foreign countries; · Increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; and · The need to localize our products. The factors described above also could disrupt our product development and manufacturing, key suppliers, and OEMs and resellers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on manufacturers in Asia and Europe for the assembly and manufacture of many of our hardware products, and we conduct substantial software development and testing operations in China and Taiwan. Accordingly, we are directly affected by economic, political, and military conditions in the regions where we have operations, including China and Taiwan. In particular, any interruption or curtailment of trade between China and its present trading partners could materially adversely affect our product development, product releases, support, business, operating results, and financial condition. Continued or increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures in the United States or other countries, sustained military action or other conflicts, or strained international relations may impair our ability to do business, increase our costs and adversely affect our stock price. Increased international instability may negatively impact our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates or require us to take extra security precautions for our domestic and international operations. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in currency exchange losses. Currently, a majority of our international business is conducted in U.S. dollars. As we expand our international operations, however, it is likely that international business will increasingly be conducted in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar have caused, and are expected to increasingly cause, currency transaction gains and losses. In addition, currency fluctuations could also affect our reported results expressed in U.S. dollars. While we attempt to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future quarterly and annual operating results, and we may experience currency losses in the future. The sales cycle for our software products is unpredictable, making it difficult to forecast operating results for any given period. The sales cycle for our software products is typically ninety to one hundred eighty days or longer. This sales cycle is subject to a number of significant risks over which we have little or no control, including: · Customers’ budgetary constraints, fluctuations, or uncertainty, internal acceptance requirements, and procurement procedures; · The actions or announcements of our competitors and their products; 24 · Customer concerns about the future or performance of our company; and · Changes in economic conditions generally, in the technology market specifically, and in a customer’s particular industry. Moreover, our software license revenue is heavily weighted toward the end of each quarter, with as much as ninety percent of LANDesk’s license revenue recorded in the third month of a quarter, making it difficult to forecast operating results for any quarter or give accurate guidance. For large opportunities, especially for enterprise-wide sales, the sales cycle is often significantly longer than our average sales cycle. In addition, these large opportunities are more difficult to forecast, and if we do not correctly forecast the timing in a given period, the amount of revenue we recognize in a period could be higher or lower than we expect, which could significantly affect our operating results for the then current period and future periods over which revenue would have been recognized. The terms and conditions of the legal agreements for these large opportunities are often based on our customers’ purchase agreements and may contain terms that are generally less favorable to us than our standard terms and conditions. As a result, revenue recognition may be delayed or otherwise negatively affected, and if we fail to meet expectations, the price of our common stock could be negatively affected. A significant percentage of our software revenue is dependent on sales to existing customers or the renewal of annual software upgrade protection or maintenance services by existing customers. Our LANDesk business unit has historically derived, and plans to continue to derive, a significant portion of our total software revenue from existing customers who purchase additional products or annual maintenance or upgrade protection. As we introduce new software products, our current customers may not require or desire the functionality of our new products and may choose not to license these new products or renew their agreements for maintenance or upgrade protection. If our current customers do not purchase additional products, increase the numbers of our products already in use, or renew annual software upgrade protection or maintenance services, our ability to increase or maintain revenue levels could be limited to only new customers. Maintenance revenue related to the licensing of our software products is a significant part of our current and future operating revenue. In general, maintenance fees increase with increased use of our software because we receive higher maintenance fees when we enter into new license agreements with new customers and when existing customers license our products for use on additional systems. Due to increased discounting for larger sales opportunities, maintenance fees on a per unit basis for such large deals can be lower than average. In addition, customers are generally provided annual maintenance discounts for entering into long-term maintenance agreements. Declines in our license bookings, increases in long-term maintenance agreements, customers electing to migrate to competitive products or other alternatives to our products, and/or increased discounting could lead to reduced software maintenance revenue and reduced gross margins. Our software products are designed with interoperability or compatibility with many third-party platforms, systems, and applications, the absence of which may harm our business. Our software products are designed for use with specific third-party platforms, systems, and applications. We believe the breadth of our integration with such platforms, systems, and applications is a significant competitive advantage. Any significant change in these third-party products could result in the loss of interoperability or compatibility with our products, making our products less attractive, increasing our research and development costs in order to modify our products, license new solutions, or develop new products, and potentially harming our future revenue. Our failure to anticipate, manage and adapt to these risks could result in significant delays in our product releases, changes in our product roadmaps, loss of current customers for whom the lost compatibility is an issue, and damage to our operating results. Our software products include licensed third-party content or code upon which we rely for the interoperability, integration, development, or updates of our products, and disruption of our access to such code or content could delay product releases, inhibit our compatibility with third-party products, and harm our business. The principal components of our software products are proprietary code and content. We do, however, rely on some licensed third-party code, content, or other intellectual property, and we expect to use such third-party code, content, or intellectual property in future products. Although we believe that there are usually adequate alternative sources for the third-party technology licensed to us, any significant interruption in the availability of these third-party software products on commercially acceptable terms or any defects in these products could delay development of future products or enhancement of our future products and harm our revenue. Use of such third-party code, content, or other intellectual property presents risks such as: 25 · Owners or licensees of third-party systems could adopt more restrictive policies or impose unfavorable or unacceptable terms and conditions for access to their products making it more difficult for us to make our products compatible with their products and resulting in higher research and development costs for us for the enhancement or modification of our existing products and the development of new products; · Functionality provided by third-party code, content, or other intellectual property in our products may become obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future versions of our products, may not be adequately maintained or updated, and we may be unable to find viable alternatives or develop our own proprietary solution; · Quality, warranty, and support terms vary dramatically when licensing third-party code, content, or other intellectual property and we have limited ability to control quality issues with third-party code, content, or other intellectual property and we must depend on our own research and development personnel to evaluate and select third-party code, content, or other intellectual property that we believe is of the most value to our customers; and · Technical difficulties in integrating our products and third-party code, content, or other intellectual property to create a combined solution, and the risk that customers will not perceive the need for such integrated solutions. Any significant termination of a third-party license, change in third-party license provisions, increase in the cost of such third-party code, content or other intellectual property, failure of a code, content or other intellectual property provider to remain competitive in functionality, or defect in or a quality issue could delay or interrupt our ability to develop and deliver software products to customers on a timely basis. This could delay our revenue recognition and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and possibly expose us to claims under license agreements with our customers and possibly increased litigation fees and expenses. Our failure to anticipate, manage, and adapt to these risks could result in significant delays in our products releases, changes in our product roadmaps, and damage to our operating results. Software errors or bugs, and possible product liability claims related to such errors or bugs, could result in increased costs, damage to our reputation, and loss of market share. Our software products are generally large and intricate programs. As a result, our current software products, updates, upgrades, or future products may contain errors, failures, or “bugs,” some of which may not become known until after the product has been released by us for use by customers. While we routinely test our products for such errors and identify and correct bugs through our customer support group, these problems are inevitable. Any significant errors may result in, among other things, loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance or our products, lost revenue and sales of our products, reallocation of, or increases in, development and customer support resources, impairment to our reputation, loss of future renewal or maintenance revenue, and increased service and warranty costs. Errors could also result in significant delays in the release of updates, upgrades, or new products while such errors are corrected. Moreover, because our products primarily support other systems and applications, any software errors or bugs in these other systems or applications may affect the performance of our software, and it may be difficult or impossible to determine where the errors reside. As a result, product errors, failures, or bugs could result in significant harm to our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to legal actions or claims for damages related to product errors which could, whether or not successful, increase costs and distract our management and our development and support teams and could harm our business, result in unexpected expenses and damage our reputation. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit exposure to potential product liability claims, and, to the extent permitted by governing law, our standard agreements in many jurisdictions also provide that we will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages caused by the failure of our products. In certain jurisdictions, however, warranty and limitation of liability provisions are not effective. Use of free or open source software or technology in our products or in the development of our products may reduce our ability to control the quality and support for products and may result in damage to our operating results. Free or “open source” software is software that is made widely available by its authors or other third parties and is often licensed on an “as is” basis for a nominal fee or, in some cases, at no charge. We have incorporated some free and open source software into our products, allowing us to enhance certain solutions without incurring substantial additional research 26 and development costs. In addition, we may use free or open source tools in the development of our products. While we have not experienced any material problems as a result of our use of free or open source software, use of free or open source software entails significant risks including: · Free or open source software or technology becoming competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and operating margins; · Requiring that we make available the source code for any modifications or derivative works we make to or from the free or open source software, and that we license or contribute such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular free or open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use; · Our proprietary software could be combined with open source software in such a way that we would be required to release the source code of our proprietary software; and · The lack of any warranty, maintenance, or support for most open source software or technology. We have established processes to help minimize these risks to the extent within our control, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of free or open source, but we cannot be sure that all free or open source software, technology, or tools are submitted for approval prior to use in our products or in the development of our products or that all use is in compliance with our corporate policies. These risks, if not eliminated, could negatively affect our ability to sell and license our products and could materially impact our business. Executive officers and other key personnel may depart, which could adversely affect our results of operations and harm our ability to grow the business. We are greatly dependent on the ability to retain key management, sales, and technical personnel, and our future success is highly dependent upon the personal efforts of our management, sales, and technical personnel and other key employees. Our Executive Vice President in charge of our Management Systems business unit departed in February 2009, and his loss or the loss of services of other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have attempted to mitigate these risks by offering key employees retention bonuses (payable only if they continue employment with us for specified periods) and equity awards that vest over time, but there is the risk that we could nevertheless lose key management, sales, and technical employees. We have historically used stock options and are currently using an Employee Stock Purchase Plan and restricted stock units, including time-based, performance-based, and market conditioned-based shares, as a key component in our executive and employee compensation programs in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. Many of our employee stock options are fully vested, but most of these outstanding and vested options are currently underwater. This could affect our ability to retain present employees. In addition, we are now required to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to make equity awards to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy, or find it difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. As we expand our international operations, we will be required to recruit and retain experienced management, sales and technical personnel in our international offices, and we expect that the identification, recruitment, training and retention of such personnel will require significant management time and effort and resources. Competition for employees with the skills required, particularly management, engineering and other technical personnel, is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain highly skilled employees in sufficient numbers to sustain our current business or to support future growth. We may need to pay recruiting or agency fees and offer additional compensation or incentives to attract and retain these and other employees, resulting in an increase to our operating expenses. In addition, for the last several years, we have acquired several companies and these acquisitions have resulted in increased responsibilities and placed significant strain on our managerial, operational, and financial resources and resulted in new and increased responsibilities for management personnel. There can be no assurance that our management, personnel, systems, procedures, and controls are, or will be, adequate to support our existing and future operations or that we will continue to grow. If we fail to recruit and retain sufficient and qualified managerial, operational, or financial personnel or to 27 implement or maintain internal systems that enable us to effectively manage our growing business and operations worldwide, our financial results in any given period may be adversely affected and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. Our credit facility could adversely affect us and our operations. In the second quarter of 2006, we obtained a $250 million unsecured, five-year, revolving, bank line of credit, and we used borrowings under this line of credit to fund a portion of the LANDesk acquisition and the purchase of our shares under our recently-expanded stock repurchase program. In July 2008, we amended the line of credit and borrowed an additional $90 million under a three-year term note. We may increase this bank debt or seek other bank debt in the future. The balance outstanding on our debt agreements was $170 million as of December 31, 2008. Interest expense on borrowings under the term loan and additional future borrowings under the line of credit could adversely affect our future net income, margins, expenses, and financial conditions by: · Requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund internal growth through working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes; · Increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns in our industry; · Increasing our vulnerability to interest rate increases to the extent any of our variable rate debt is not hedged; · Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt in relation to cash flow; · Limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry; · Limiting, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, refinance the line of credit, or obtain other financing capacity; and · Subjecting us to a risk of noncompliance with financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness. The line of credit and term loan contain affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability to (i) make distributions, investments, and other payments unless we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria, (ii) incur additional indebtedness, (iii) restructure our subsidiaries, and (iv) make acquisitions and capital expenditures. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to comply with these provisions of our line of credit and term loan may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. If we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we could be in default under our line of credit and/or the term loan, and our debt, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We also face interest rate risk on our bank line of credit and term loan which currently bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 150 basis points. We have hedged this exposure to interest rate risk with interest rate swaps, which have a remaining notional amount of $170 million, through Regions Bank and SunTrust Bank. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, in tax laws and treaties, or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. 28 Failure to maintain adequate internal systems and effective internal controls over our financial reporting and information systems could result in our management and auditors being unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and information systems, which could harm our business reputation and cause our stock price to decline. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we implement and maintain adequate internal systems and effective internal controls over financial reporting and information systems. The absence of such controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, correction of any “significant deficiencies” or “material weaknesses” (as defined under PCAOB guidelines) could require additional remedial measures including hiring additional personnel, which could be costly and time-consuming. If a significant deficiency or material weakness exists at any year-end (including a material weakness identified prior to year-end for which there is an insufficient period of time to evaluate and confirm the effectiveness of the corrections or related new procedures), our management and our auditors will be unable to report favorably as to the effectiveness of our control over financial reporting or information systems. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and our management, which could result in a decline of our stock price, damage to our business reputation, and potential litigation. Provisions in our charter documents and in Delaware law may discourage potential acquisition bids for us and may prevent changes in management that stockholders may favor. Provisions in our charter documents could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control transaction that stockholders may favor. These provisions could have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for shares, and as a result, these provisions may prevent the market price of our common stock from reflecting the effects of actual or rumored takeover attempts and may prevent stockholders from reselling their shares at or above the price at which they purchased their shares. These provisions may also prevent changes in management that stockholders may favor. Our charter documents do not permit stockholders to act by written consent, limit the ability of stockholders to call a stockholders meeting, and provide for a classified Board of Directors, which means stockholders can only elect, or remove, a limited number of directors in any given year. Furthermore, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to five million shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The Board of Directors can fix the price, rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions of such preferred stock without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may delay or prevent a change in control transaction without further action by our stockholders. In addition, Delaware law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us. Delaware law prevents certain Delaware corporations, including Avocent, from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination with any interested stockholder for three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder. Our stock price may be volatile. Our stock has experienced significant volatility in price, in particular whenever there has been a difference between our actual financial results and the published expectations of analysts. We have also experienced changes in our stock price as a result of speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial position, results of operations, business, or significant transactions or acquisitions. The stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have negatively affected the market price of many publicly-held companies in ways seemingly unrelated to the actual operating performance of these companies. For instance, in the past several months stock prices in the U.S. have reacted dramatically in connection with recent events in the U.S. and global economy. Our stock price has been similarly volatile, and at times, more volatile that the market as a whole. These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions and the announcement of proposed and completed acquisitions or other significant transactions, or any difficulties associated with such transactions, by us or our current or potential competitors, may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 