D. Risk Factors There is a high degree of risk associated with our company and business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Our Markets The current economic and financial crisis may have a material adverse effect on our results. The crisis of the financial and credit markets worldwide in the second half of 2008 has led to a severe economic recession worldwide, and the outlook for 2009 is uncertain. A continuation or worsening of unfavorable economic conditions, including the ongoing credit and capital markets disruptions, could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, delays in receiving orders, delays or defaults in payment or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers. We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. In addition, changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets and in the competitive landscape make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. Currently, we lack of short-term visibility as customers are focused on maintaining flexibility, reducing inventory and conserving their cash. We had a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur additional losses in the future. Moreover, if our business deteriorates, we could face liquidity problems. Despite having had net income of $11.6 million, $2.7 million and $10.8 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, we incurred net losses of $9.6 million and $7.7 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may not be able to achieve or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to generate consistent profitability could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. We have also been using a substantial portion of our liquidity during the downturn in our business. In 2007, we used $1.3 million of cash in our operations, which amount increased to $2.9 million in 2008. At December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $15.9 million. Also, at December 31, 2008, we had a short term loan in the sum of $1.5 million, which was repaid in March 2009. We expect to use additional cash in our operations during 2009, and expect to continue to incur significant additional legal expenses and other costs associated with certain patent infringement actions. See “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us” below. A recent jury verdict has been rendered in favor of a competitor in its patent infringement case against Camtek awarding damages of approximately $6.8 million. As of the date hereof, the court has not entered a judgment on the verdict. We intend to aggressively pursue motions to overturn or modify the jury’s verdict. Should we be unsuccessful at the trial court level, we plan to appeal any adverse judgment. A payment of any damages set forth in a judgment, if and when required, may adversely affect our liquidity and require us to further reduce our expenses and to arrange for additional financing. If available liquidity is not sufficient to meet our operating and other obligations as they come due, our plans include pursuing additional financing arrangements or further reducing expenditures as necessary to meet our cash requirements through 2009. However, as a result of the current global economic and financial crisis and other factors, including our operating losses and financial condition, there is no assurance that, if and when required, we will be able to raise additional finance or reduce discretionary spending to provide the required liquidity. 7 The markets we target are: printed circuit board, integrated circuit (IC) substrate and semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industries. The IC substrate and semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industries are highly cyclical and the Company does not have any information that enables it to predict the cycles in these markets. Also, all three markets are negatively affected by periods of down-turns, as the one currently experienced. The printed circuit board and the IC substrate industries experienced a prolonged and severe down-turn in 2002 and 2003, during which the overall rate of capital spending by printed circuit board and IC substrate manufacturers had been sharply cut and sales of our products had declined. We experienced an expansion and growth during 2004, and significant fluctuation on a quarterly and annual basis thereafter. During the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 our revenues were severely affected by the global economic recession, and we cannot predict when market conditions will improve. As a result of recovery from the down-turn experienced in 2002 and 2003, we saw an increase in capital spending in the printed circuit board and IC substrate industries, and sales of our automated optical inspection, or AOI, systems to these manufacturers increased during 2004. In 2005, there was a decrease in demand from our clients in the printed circuit board industry, as a result of a capacity adjustment in that market but in 2006 the demand from our clients in the printed circuit board market increased again. In the first quarter of 2007 we had a seasonal adjustment down but then an expansion during the second and third quarters of 2007, with a further adjustment down in the fourth quarter of 2007 and first half of 2008. During the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 our revenues from the printed circuit board and IC substrate industries, and sales of our AOI systems to manufactures in these industries, were severely affected by the global economic recession. The semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry is characterized by cyclicality, which is amplified in the back-end sector, where we operate. As a result of our market penetration to the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry, we experienced growth from this market from 2004 until the second quarter of 2006. In the second half of 2006 we were affected by the market’s weakness, which continued to affect us until the third quarter of 2007. In the last quarter of 2007 and the first half of 2008 we experienced growth unrelated to increased capacity in this market. In the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, as in our other markets, our revenues decreased in this market due to the severe global economic recession. In the event of a reduction in demand, we have only a limited ability to reduce expenses without harming our ability to rapidly grow when our markets recover and demands increase again, as in order to maintain such ability we are required to make significant ongoing expenditures related to engineering, research and development and worldwide customer service and support operations. Accordingly, we may incur losses during the current or future downturns or capacity adjustments affecting the markets we serve. We are planning to increase our revenues from sales of AOI systems to the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry. If our share in the market fails to grow or we are prohibited from selling the Falcon system into the United States, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future success in the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry depends on our ability to sustain and increase the acceptance rate of our AOI technology and upon the acceptance by our customers of new applications we included in our AOI systems. If the market for our AOI systems in the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry does not develop at the rate we expect, whether as a result of our inability to obtain repeat orders from our customers or to acquire customers who would adopt our systems for new applications, an economic downturn, intensified competition, presentation to the market of alternative technologies, changes in technology, changes in product standards, or otherwise – our results will be adversely affected. In 2007 our revenues from the Falcon significantly decreased, due to a downturn in the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry. In 2008 our revenues from the Falcon increased by 48% above 2007 to $30 million. We attribute this increase to several multiple orders of technology-driven purchases and penetration to new customers with new applications. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase Falcon revenues to or above the levels previously achieved. If an injunction is issued in the lawsuit brought against us by Rudolph (see “Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us” below), we may be prohibited from selling our Falcon systems in the United States, which would result in a decline in our revenues from the Falcon unless it can be modified in a manner which would not violate the terms of the injunction, if issued. 8 Longer sales process for new products may increase our costs and delay time to market of our products and our sales in general have decreased during the current downturn, both of which negatively impacted our inventory and results of operations. Our sales process for new products to new and existing customers involves: demonstrations and testing against industry benchmarks in our sales centers; sales and technical presentations and presentations regarding our products’ competitive advantages; and installation of the systems at the customer’s site for side-by-side competitive evaluations for a period of one to six months. More evaluation time is devoted during the initial penetration period for new products and for new customers in new markets, since these circumstances usually require engineering efforts to fix errors, customize tasks and add new features. As a result of all of the above factors, our finished goods inventory totaled $12.5 million at December 31, 2008, and our costs may increase disproportionately to our revenues as our product lines and customer base expand. Moreover, our customers often require that we deliver our products with short lead times. In order to meet our customers’ needs in the timeframe they require, we usually need to pre-order components and subsystems based on our forecasts of future orders, rather than on actual orders. In order to compensate for unexpected delays, we have had to predict our needs further into the future, which increases the risk that our predictions may not correspond to our actual future needs. At December 31, 2008, $21.7 million of our inventory was in excess of our estimate of our current requirements for 2009 based on our recent level of sales. We believe that this amount will be utilized according to our forecasted sales. Additionally, we have developed a program to reduce this inventory to desired levels over the near term and believe that no loss will be incurred on its disposition. However, we cannot estimate a range of the amount of loss that is reasonably possible should the forecasted sales and the program to reduce the level of inventory not be successful. Any material write downs of aged or obsolete inventory could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate an international sales organization. A substantial majority of our sales has been to manufacturers in the Asia Pacific region. The concentration of our sales and other resources within a particular geographical region subjects us to additional risks. We have sold our systems in over 30 countries around the world. In recent years, the majority of our sales were in the Asia Pacific region. In 2008, our sales in the Asia Pacific region accounted for approximately 75% of our total revenues, including approximately 35% of our total revenues from sales in China and Hong Kong, 16% from sales in Korea and 10% from sales in Taiwan. Changes in local legislation, changes in governmental controls and regulations, changes in tariffs and taxes, political instability, trade restrictions, a downturn in economic or financial conditions, as well as any extraordinary events having an adverse effect on the economy or business environment in this region may cause a significant decline in our future revenues and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. These general risks are heightened in China, where the nature of the economy and the legal parameters are rapidly evolving and where foreign companies may face cultural obstacles. The markets we serve are highly competitive. There is a dominant market participant for AOI systems both for the printed circuit board industry and for the final inspection of silicon wafers in the semiconductor industry, and some of our competitors have greater resources, all of which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability or plan our cash flow. Competition in the markets we serve is intense. During market downturns, including the current global economic recession, competition has intensified due to the reduced demand for the type of products that we manufacture. When competitors respond to declining demand by offering discounts, free evaluation machines or more favorable credit terms, we may need to implement some or all of the same methods in order to maintain our market position. These could mean lower prices for our products and a corresponding reduction in our gross margin, as well as favorable payment terms to our customers and a corresponding decline in cash flow. If we have to lower prices to remain competitive and are unable to reduce our costs to offset price reductions or are unable to introduce new, higher performance products with higher prices, our operating results may be adversely affected. If we have to implement more favorable payment terms to our customers, our cash flow may be adversely affected. 9 Competitors currently sell systems that provide functionality similar to our products. In the printed circuit board industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is Orbotech Ltd., with additional competitors including Dainippon Screen, Lloyd-Doyle, Gigavis and local AOI vendors in China and Taiwan. In addition, there is a market for used AOI systems for printed circuit board manufacturers, which may reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices in certain cases. Our competitors in the IC substrate industry include Orbotech Ltd., Dainippon Screen, Shirai, ATI, Utechzone and Gigavis. In the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is Rudolph Technologies Inc. [which purchased the IP and bumped wafer inspection line of RVSI Inspection, LLC (“RVSI”) in January 2008], with additional competitors including Zygo (through acquisition of Solvision in February 2008), KLA-Tencor (through acquisition of 96% ownership in ICOS in May 30, 2008), Topcon, Toray, Tosok and Hitachi. Since we entered the final inspection of silicon wafers business in early 2004, there have been several mergers and acquisitions that changed the competitive map; starting with Rudolph Technologies Inc.‘s acquisition of August Technologies in 2005 and the acquisition of the bumped wafer inspection line of RVSI in January 2008, continuing with Solvision’s acquisition by Zygo in February 2008 and the purchase of 96% of ICOS’s shares by KLA-Tencor in May 2008. These acquisitions can reinforce the previously smaller competitors with resources, financial backing and the better market position of the acquiring companies, while bringing new forces to the marketplace. As a result, Camtek may need to overcome unfavorable market share perception and invest more R&D efforts in maintaining its technological position. Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources and offer a broader range of products and services. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, develop additional or superior products, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. The unavailability of credit insurance may adversely affect our willingness to sell to certain customers. Since the second quarter of 2006, we have purchased credit insurance from an Israeli insurance company to cover certain export sales. As a result of the global economic crisis and the crisis in the financial and credit markets, the criteria for such insurance have gotten more stringent. Consequently, credit insurance covering some of our customers may be unavailable. This could adversely affect our willingness to sell products to these customers. Technology in the markets in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to keep pace with these changes or with emerging industry standards. This could result in a loss of revenues. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and new product introductions. Potential new technologies and improvements to existing production equipment and methods could improve production yields, thereby reducing the need to use our AOI systems in these industries. In addition, new technologies could emerge as alternatives to using our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new technologies for AOI of printed circuit boards, IC substrates and silicon wafers. These products must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes, with products offered by our competitors or with emerging industry standards, our ability to attract new business and generate revenues may be damaged. We seek to expand our activity into unsaturated markets adjacent to our existing served markets, such as the inspection of silicon wafers at various steps during their manufacturing process, inside the wafer fabrication facility. Technological developments in production processes and in process control may reduce the growth we anticipate in demand for inspection systems. If this happens, we may not be able to cover our investments in penetrating these markets, or will have to increase our R&D and marketing expense to adapt our products to such changes. 10 Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us. Third parties have asserted claims, and may assert additional claims in the future, that we have violated their patents or that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property claims against us, even if without merit, could lead to protracted litigation, could cost us a significant amount of money to defend and could divert management’s attention from our business. On July 14, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota by one of the Company’s competitors in the field of semiconductor manufacturing and packaging, August Technology Corporation and its acquirer, Rudolph Technologies Inc., alleging infringement of a patent and seeking injunctive relief and damages. The trial before the jury included the issues of infringement, invalidity, willful infringement and damages. On March 6, 2009 a jury verdict has been rendered in favor of Rudolph, awarding damages of approximately $6.8 million with regard to sales of Camtek’s Falcon products in the United States. The jury also found that the infringement was not willful. Judgment has not been entered on this verdict. No provision has been taken in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008, since we believe it is more likely than not that this matter will be resolved in our favor. On May 10, 2004, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Nazareth, Israel, by our competitor, Orbotech Ltd., alleging that the Dragon and Falcon systems infringe upon a patent held by Orbotech Ltd. and requesting an injunctive relief and damages. Currently, the issue being dealt with by the court is the validity of the asserted patent, which expired in February 2008. Also, the court advised the parties to turn to mediation. We believe that we have substantial defenses against the validity of Orbotech’s patent and substantial defenses against Orbotech’s claims. On February 23, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Jerusalem by Orbotech Ltd., alleging infringement of patent held by Orbotech Ltd. regarding a specific illumination block (an apparatus for illuminating and controlling the illumination of scanned objects), seeking injunctive relief and damages. The court ruled, based on a court’s scientific advisor’s opinion and prima facie evidence, that Camtek infringed the patent, and granted Orbotech a provisional remedy, i.e. interim relief, which prevents Camtek from manufacturing the allegedly infringing illumination block in suit. We believe that we have good defenses in the infringement aspect of the claim. We further believe that we have claims with respect to the validity of the asserted patent, as well as other defenses such as estoppel and lack of good faith on the part of Orbotech. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in our defense against these claims. If these claims are ultimately successful, they could have a negative impact on our business by impairing our ability to sell our systems, and they could result in pecuniary damages against us and significant legal and other defense costs, which would impact our cash resources and profitability. In the event we do not prevail against these claims, we may also be liable for any court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the claimants in connection with these litigations. Even if we will be successful in our defense against these claims, we may still incur significant legal expenses while resolving these matters. Our ordinary shares may be delisted from Nasdaq, and as a result the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Our ordinary shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. One of the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market is that the minimum bid price of a listed security must be at least $1.00. On August 20, 2008, we received a Nasdaq Staff Deficiency Letter indicating that, for the previous 30 business days, the bid price of our ordinary shares had closed below the minimum requirement. In accordance with Nasdaq rules, we were provided 180 calendar days, or until February 17, 2009, to regain compliance with this deficiency. In addition, one of the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market is that the market value of publicly held shares of a listed security must be at least $5 million. The market value of our publicly held shares, as of March 31, 2009, was $3,090,650. 11 However, given the extraordinary market conditions, Nasdaq has subsequently implemented a temporary suspension on the enforcement of the minimum $1.00 bid price and the minimum market value of publicly held shares listing requirements through July 19, 2009. Pursuant to this suspension, any company in the compliance process for a bid price or market value of publicly held shares concern, is “frozen” at the same stage of the process until the end of the suspension. Consequently, beginning on July 20, 2009, unless Nasdaq further extends the suspension period, we will have over 120 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price deficiency. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement during this period, Nasdaq could delist our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Global Market. In addition, if we fail to meet the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement once this requirement is reinstated, Nasdaq could notify us that it intends to delist our ordinary shares from the Nasdaq Global Market, and we may not meet the minimum market value of publicly held shares requirement of the Nasdaq Capital Market at that time either. Such delisting would likely have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our ordinary shares and, as a result, the market price for our ordinary shares would likely become more volatile and decline. If one or more of our third-party suppliers or subcontractors does not provide us with key components or subsystems, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, and we may incur substantial costs to obtain these components from alternate sources. We rely on single source and limited source suppliers and subcontractors for a number of essential components and subsystems of our products. We do not have agreements with all of these suppliers and subcontractors for the continued supply of the components or subsystems they provide. In addition, due to the global economic recession, if some of our key suppliers encounter difficulties and financial problems, they might be unable to supply us with the necessary components or subsystems. An interruption in supply from these sources or an unexpected termination of the manufacture of key components or subsystems would disrupt production and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers. Although we have taken and currently take precautions against this kind of event, an unexpected termination or disruption of supply would require an investment in capital and manpower resources in order to shift to other suppliers and might cause a significant delay in introducing replacement products. However, to date we have sufficient units of such components which will allow us to continue to supply our products until such alternative suppliers are found. We may encounter difficulties in purchasing key components and subsystems, or overestimate our needs, to meet customer demand. In the current highly-competitive business environment, our customers require us to fill orders within a very short period of time. Our products are complex and require essential components and subsystems that are produced by a number of suppliers and subcontractors. These suppliers and subcontractors cannot always supply such components and subsystems within the time frame demanded by our customers. Therefore, we are required to predict future demands. Under the current economic conditions, we believe that we have sufficient inventory to fill our customers’ orders on time. However, if market conditions rapidly change and customer demand increases, we will be required to order additional components and subsystems. If our suppliers and subcontractors are unable to timely meet our increased demand, we might not be able to adequately meet our customers’ demands. Our inability to satisfy any increase in customer orders could result in the loss of sales and could cause customers to seek products from our competitors. We may also overestimate our future needs, which could result in our carrying excess inventory of certain components and subsystems. We may attempt to expand our activity in the markets we operate in through M&A activity. Such activity may result in dilution, operating difficulties and other adverse consequences. We expect to invest efforts in attempting to develop new growth engines by acquisition, where core competencies may provide us with synergy and competitive advantages. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, decrease in our cash resources, incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could harm our business. Furthermore, we compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other well-established and well-capitalized entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. 12 In addition, if any such acquisition is completed, our operation of the acquired business or assets could involve numerous risks, including: post-merger integration problems; diversion of management’s attention from our core business; entering markets in which we have little or no experience; and the loss of key employees of the acquired operations. We can not be certain that any future acquisition or merger will be successful. If the operation of the business of any future acquisition or merger disrupts our operations, our business may suffer. In addition, even if we successfully integrate the acquired business with our own, we may not receive the intended benefits of the acquisition. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively. We differentiate our products and technologies from those of our competitors by using our proprietary software, our image processing algorithms and the integration of our advanced hardware components. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trade secrets, patents, trademarks, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how and intellectual property, including hardware and software components of our products. These measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies and it may be possible for a third party, including a competitor, to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technologies without authorization or to develop similar technologies independently. Additionally, our products may be sold in countries, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in the prices of our products becoming less competitive or in additional expenses. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our prices in most countries outside of Europe and Japan are denominated in dollars. In those countries, if there is a significant devaluation in the local currency compared to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that local currency and may be less competitive. In addition, much of our service income is denominated in local currencies. If a larger number of our sales were to be denominated in currencies other than dollars, our reported revenue and earnings would be subject to a greater degree of foreign exchange fluctuations. We generate most of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our salary and operating expenses in New Israeli Shekel (“NIS”). As the majority of our revenues are denominated in dollars, we believe that inflation and fluctuations in the NIS/dollar exchange rate have no material effect on our revenues. However, a major portion of the costs of our Israeli operations, such as personnel, subcontractors, materials and facility-related costs, are incurred in NIS. As a result, we bear the risk that our NIS costs, as expressed in dollars, increase to the extent by which the continued significant appreciation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, as experienced in 2007 and 2008, will increase our costs expressed in NIS and have an adverse effect on our net income. We also bear the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, which would increase our costs expressed in dollars. We may face risks of interruptions in our production capabilities. Our major manufacturing facility is located in Migdal Ha’Emek, Israel. Any event affecting this site, including natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. 13 We have a supplementary manufacturing facility in China, in which we assemble some of our AOI systems for the printed circuit board industry. Therefore, we may be influenced by changing events in China; for example, our manufacturing activity in China may suffer as a result of changes in China’s geopolitical status or fluctuations in its economic stability. In addition, we may be exposed to sourcing risks, such as supply-chain and business interruption issues. Further potential risks may be associated with such issues as the protection of our intellectual property; the recruitment and retention of skilled employees. Any event affecting this site may disrupt our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. We may experience fluctuations in our future operating results, making it difficult to predict future results. Our revenues and net income (loss), in any particular period may be lower (or greater) than revenues and net income (loss), in a preceding or comparable period. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our earnings. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as indications of our future performance. Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: — the size, timing and shipment of substantial orders; — products mixture; — customer budget cycles and installation schedules; — product introductions; — the pricing of our products; — the timing of new product upgrades or enhancements; — temporary shifts in industry capacity; — the timing of installation or, in some cases, of acceptance of our products by our customers; — interest and exchange rates; and — the timing of issuing required import permits in certain countries into where we sell. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our continued growth and success largely depend on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management and key employees. Due to the current economic recession, at the end of 2008 and beginning of 2009 we implemented cost-reduction measures, resulting in a reduction of about 25% of our human resources related expenses. If our operations will rapidly expand, we believe that we will need to promote and hire qualified engineering, administrative, operational, financial and marketing personnel. In particular, we may find it difficult to hire key personnel with the requisite knowledge of our business, products and technologies. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. During periods of economic growth, competition for qualified engineering and technical personnel is intense. 14 If our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rafi Amit, who is currently handling the development of our business in the Far East, other members of our senior management or any of our key employees are unable or unwilling to continue to be employed by us, our business would suffer. We do not have a key man life insurance policy for Mr. Amit. Our relationship with Priortech may give rise to conflicts of interest. We purchase products of, or sell products to, Priortech Ltd., our principal shareholder, and other companies owned or controlled by it, and act jointly with respect to governmental and administrative matters and the purchase from third parties of various products and services, which may create conflicts of interest. Despite Israeli law procedural requirements, including obtaining special shareholder approvals for interested party transactions, we cannot be certain that those procedures will eliminate the possible detrimental effects of any of these transactions and activities. In addition, Mr. Rafi Amit acts as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, on a full time basis, as well as acting as the Company’s and Priortech’s Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr. Yotam Stern, our Executive Vice President, Business & Strategy, spends 40% of his time serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Priortech and other positions in the Priortech group. If we are classified as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules, 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse tax consequences to our U.S. shareholders, including gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares being taxed at as ordinary income rates rather than capital gain rates, and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. Rules similar to those applicable to dispositions generally will apply to certain “excess distributions” with respect to our ordinary shares. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Based on an analysis of our assets and income, we believe that in 2008 we were not a PFIC. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2009. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors, including the relative value of our passive assets and our non-passive assets, our market capitalization and the amount and type of our gross income. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2009 or in any future taxable year. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and the related tax consequences, please see “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past. During the period from January 1, 2008 through March 31, 2009, the closing price of our ordinary shares ranged from $0.21 to $1.81. Our ordinary shares may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the following: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — market conditions relating to our customers' industries; — global economic conditions, which generally influence stock market prices and volume fluctuations; 15 — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; — large block transactions in our ordinary shares; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements of significant claims or proceedings against us and developments in such proceedings; — additions or departures of our key personnel; and — future sales of our ordinary shares. Due to the continuing global crisis in the financial and credit markets, stock markets have experienced and continue to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, political events or hostilities in Israel or the surrounding region could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. Currently, we are facing a class action complaint, as detailed in Item 8A – Legal Proceedings. This class action complaint could be protracted and divert management’s attention and resources. Our principal shareholder, Priortech, holds a controlling interest in us and will be able to exercise its control in ways that may be adverse to your interests. Priortech beneficially holds 63.9% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Priortech has the power to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of making it more difficult to obtain approval for a change in control of us. Messrs. Rafi Amit, Yotam Stern and Itzhak Krell control Priortech and may be deemed to control us. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. Our principal offices, sole research and development facility and major manufacturing facility are located in the State of Israel. We depend on components imported from outside of Israel and almost all of our sales occur outside of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: — any major hostilities involving Israel; 16 — a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; — the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; and — a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies of those countries directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of our key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Some of our employees in Israel, including certain key employees, are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli army and are subject to being called up for reserve duty at any time. The absence of one or more of our officers and key employees for significant periods of time due to military service could be disruptive to our operations. The Israeli government programs and tax benefits in which we have participated in the past and in which we currently participate or from which we receive benefits require us to meet several conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs. We benefit from certain Israeli government programs and tax benefits, particularly from tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the Approved Enterprise status of our manufacturing facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment and financing a percentage of those investments with our share capital. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, these tax benefits could be cancelled, and we could be required to refund those tax benefits already received. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all, and our requests for future participation in these programs for any future expansion of our manufacturing facilities may not be approved. In recent years, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under certain of its programs in which we do not participate. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our tax rates, thereby reducing our net profits or increasing our net losses. The government grants we received in the past for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products or to transfer technologies outside of Israel. From our inception through 2000, we received government grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade (the “OCS”), for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. In March 2001, we commenced repayment of many of these grants pursuant to an understanding reached with the OCS. As of June 1, 2005, we have fully repaid the grants received by us from the OCS. Except for special circumstances and if we obtain governmental consents and pay to the OCS amounts which may be substantial, the terms of these grants prohibit us from selling or transferring rights in the technology developed with the grants outside of Israel and allow sale or transfer of rights within Israel only with special governmental approvals, even after full repayment of the grants. Elements of our technologies, including in the areas of electronic hardware, image processing, electro-optics, physics and mechanics, were developed with OCS grants. In addition, we may only manufacture products developed with these grants outside of Israel pursuant to the approval of a special governmental committee, and any approval of this nature may also require us to pay a further significant amount of royalties than the terms of the grants required, unless the amount of production outside Israel is less than 10% of the original rate of production and the OCS has not objected to the transfer of products. The restrictions regarding the sale or transfer of technology or manufacturing rights out of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into strategic alliances or enter into merger or acquisition transactions in the future that provide for the sale or transfer of our technology or manufacturing rights. 17 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this Annual Report or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and our Israeli attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to assert U.S. federal securities laws claims or to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in actions originally instituted in Israel. Some provisions of Israeli law could inhibit the acquisition of us by others. Some provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger at a shareholders’ meeting called upon at least 21 days’ notice of each of the merging companies. A merger may not be completed until at least 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal by each of the merging companies with the Israeli Registrar of Companies, and 30 days have passed since the resolution was adopted by the general meeting of each of the merging companies. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a special tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by way of a special tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a majority shareholder of the company. In any event, if, as a result of an acquisition of shares, the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. For more information on the provisions of Israeli law in these contexts, please see sections “Share Capital” and “Israeli Taxation.” 