D. Risk Factors There is a high degree of risk associated with our company and business. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Our Markets The markets we target are: printed circuit board, high density interconnect substrate and semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industries. These markets are cyclical – in 2002 and 2003 the Company experienced a prolonged and severe downturn in the printed circuit board and the high density interconnect substrate; The Company does not have any information that enables it to predict the next downturn. The printed circuit board, high density interconnect substrate and semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industries are cyclical; The printed circuit board and the high density interconnect substrate experienced a prolonged and severe downturn in 2002 and 2003, during which the overall rate of capital spending by printed circuit board and high density interconnect substrate manufacturers had been sharply cut and sales of our products had declined. We experienced an expansion and growth during 2004, a seasonal adjustment down in the first quarter of 2005, and again, an expansion during the second half of 2005. As a result of this cyclicality we saw during 2004 an increase in capital spending in the printed circuit board and high density interconnect substrate industries, and sales of our automated optical inspection, or AOI, systems to these manufacturers have increased. In 2005, there was a decrease in demand from our clients in the printed circuit board industry, as a result of a capacity adjustment in that market but in the first quarter of 2006 the demand from our clients in the printed circuit board market increased again. In the event of a permanent reduction in demand, we have only a limited ability to reduce expenses because of the need for significant ongoing expenditures related to engineering, research and development and worldwide customer service and support operations. Accordingly, we may incur losses during future downturns or capacity adjustments affecting the markets we serve. 6 We are in the process of increasing our market share in the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry with our Falcon system. If our share in the market fails to grow, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future success in the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry depends on our ability to sustain and increase the acceptance rate of our AOI technology and upon the acceptance by our customers of new applications we recently included in our AOI systems. If the market for our AOI systems in the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry does not develop at the rate we expect, whether as a result of our inability to obtain repeated orders from our customers and to acquire customers who would adopt our systems for new applications, an economic downturn, intensified competition, presentation to the market of alternative technologies, changes in technology, changes in product standards, or otherwise - - our results will be adversely affected. We may encounter difficulties in purchasing key components and subsystems to meet increased customer demand. In the current highly-competitive business environment, our customers require us to fill orders within a very short period of time. Our products are complex and require essential components and subsystems that are produced by a number of suppliers and subcontractors. These suppliers and subcontractors cannot always supply such components and subsystems within the time frame demanded by our customers. Therefore we are required to predict future demands. If we do not order adequate components and subsystems, or if our suppliers and subcontractors are unable to timely meet our increased demand, we might not be able to adequately meet our customers’ demands. Our inability to satisfy any increase in customer orders could result in the loss of sales and could cause customers to seek products from our competitors. We may also overestimate our future needs, which could result in our carrying excess inventory of certain components and subsystems. Longer sales cycles may increase our costs and delay time to market of our products, which may increase our inventory and negatively impact our results of operations. We are expanding our product lines and customer base. Compared to our sales cycles for repeat orders from existing customers, we have longer sales cycles for new customers who are likely to order multiple systems, for new products and for new customers in new markets. The sales process in these cases generally involves: demonstrations and testing against industry benchmarks in our sales centers; sales and technical presentations and presentations regarding our products’ competitive advantages; and installation of the systems at the customer’s site for side-by-side competitive evaluations for a period of one to four months. The longest evaluation period is for new customers who are likely to order multiple systems. More evaluation time is devoted during the initial penetration period for new products and for new customers in new markets, since these circumstances usually require engineering efforts to fix errors, customize tasks and add new features. As a result of all of the above factors, our finished goods inventory has increased, and our costs may increase disproportionately to our revenues as our product lines and customer base expand. Moreover, our customers are increasingly requiring that we deliver our products with short lead times. In order to meet our customers’ needs in the timeframe they require, we need to pre-order components and subsystems based on our forecasts of future orders, rather than on actual orders. This need is compounded by the fact that, in times of increasing demand in our industry, our suppliers and subcontractors tend to extend their delivery schedules or fail to meet their delivery deadlines. In order to compensate for these unexpected delays, we have had to predict our needs further into the future, which increases the risk that our predictions may not correspond to our actual future needs. 7 We operate an international sales organization. Recently, a substantial majority of our sales has been to manufacturers in the Asia Pacific region. The concentration of our sales and other resources within a particular geographical region subjects us to additional risks. We have sold our systems in over 30 countries around the world. The majority of our sales were in the Asia Pacific region. In 2005, our sales in the Asia Pacific region accounted for approximately 70% of our total revenues, including approximately 40% of our total revenues from sales in China and Hong Kong and 19% from sales in Taiwan. We further increased our presence in the region during 2005. Changes in local legislation, changes in governmental controls and regulations, changes in tariffs and taxes, political instability, trade restrictions, a downturn in economic or financial conditions, as well as any extraordinary events having an adverse effect on the economy or business environment in this region may cause a significant decline in our future revenues and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. These general risks are heightened in China, where the nature of the economy and the legal parameters are rapidly evolving and where foreign companies may face cultural obstacles. Our results from operations may be adversely affected by changes in the economic or legal environment in China. Technology in the markets in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and we may not be able to keep pace with these changes or with emerging industry standards. This could result in a loss of revenues. The markets for our products are characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in end-user requirements and new product introductions. Potential new technologies and improvements to existing production equipment and methods could improve production yields, thereby reducing the need to use our AOI systems in these industries. In addition, new technologies could emerge as alternatives to using our products. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop and introduce new technologies for AOI of printed circuit boards, high density interconnect substrates and silicon wafers. These products must keep pace with technological developments and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes, with products offered by our competitors or with emerging industry standards, our ability to attract new business and generate revenues may be damaged. The markets we serve are highly competitive. There is a dominant market participant for AOI systems both for the printed circuit board industry and for the final inspection of silicon wafers in the semiconductor industry, and some of our competitors have greater resources, all of which may make it difficult for us to maintain profitability. Competition in the markets we serve is intense. During 2001, 2002 and early 2003 and during the first half of 2005, competition intensified due to the low demand for the type of products that we manufacture to the printed circuit board and the high density interconnect industries. This resulted from the general economic downturn or seasonal adjustments during that time. If the trend of increasingly intense competition continues, it could mean lower prices for our products and a corresponding reduction in our gross margin. If we have to lower prices to remain competitive and are unable to reduce our costs to offset price reductions or are unable to introduce new, higher performance products with higher prices, our operating results may be adversely affected. Competitors currently sell systems that provide functionality similar to our products. In the printed circuit board industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is Orbotech Ltd., with additional competitors including Dainippon Screen and ManiaBarco. In addition, there is a market for used AOI systems for printed circuit board manufacturers, which may reduce the demand for our products and force us to lower our prices in certain cases. Our competitors in the high density interconnect substrate industry include Dainippon Screen, Orbotech and Utechzone. In the semiconductor manufacturing and packaging industry, our principal competitor and the dominant market participant is August Technology Corp. (merged into Rudolph Technologies in February 2006), with additional competitors including Robotic Vision Systems, Topcon and Toray Industries, Hitachi, Icos and Solvision. 8 Some of our competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources and offer a broader range of products and services. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements, develop additional or superior products, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products. Our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, which could result in claims against us. Third parties may assert claims that we have violated their patents or that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. Intellectual property claims have been asserted against us in the past and may be asserted against us in the future. Any intellectual property claims against us, even if without merit, could lead to protracted litigation, could cost us a significant amount of money to defend and could divert management’s attention from our business. On May 10, 2004, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Nazareth, Israel, by our competitor, Orbotech Ltd., alleging that the Dragon and Falcon systems infringe upon a patent held by Orbotech Ltd. and requesting an injunctive relief and damages. We believe that we have substantial defenses against Orbotech’s claims. On February 23, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the District Court in Jerusalem by Orbotech Ltd., alleging infringement of patent held by Orbotech Ltd. regarding an illumination block, (an apparatus for illuminating and controlling the illumination of scanned objects), seeking injunctive relief and damages. The court ruled, based on a court’s expert opinion, that Camtek allegedly infringed the patent, and granted a provisional remedy which prevents Camtek from manufacturing the illumination block. The Supreme Court rejected our request to appeal from the District’s Court decision. We believe that it has substantial defenses against Orbotech’s claims. On July 14, 2005, a lawsuit was filed against us in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota by the Company’s competitor in the field of semiconductor manufacturing and packaging, August Technology Corporation, alleging infringement of a patent and seeking injunctive relief and damages. We have filed an answer and counterclaims alleging, inter-alia, non-infringement of the patent. We believe that we have substantial defenses to August’s allegations. We believe that we have substantial defenses against the aforementioned claims. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in our defense against these claims. If these claims are successful, they could have a negative impact on our business by impairing our ability to sell our systems, and they could result in pecuniary damages against us. Pecuniary damages awarded at the discretion of the court, if any, would be based either on the amount of any losses incurred by the claimants in sales of products due to our sales of infringing products or on the amount of profits earned by us from sales of infringing products. In the event we do not prevail against these claims, we may also be liable for any court costs and attorney’s fees incurred by the claimants in connection with these litigations. If one or more of our third-party suppliers or subcontractors does not provide us with key components or subsystems, we may not be able to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, and we may incur substantial costs to obtain these components from alternate sources. We rely on single source and limited source suppliers and subcontractors for a number of essential components and subsystems of our products. We do not have agreements with all of these suppliers and subcontractors for the continued supply of the components or subsystems they provide. An interruption in supply from these sources or an unexpected termination of the manufacture of key components or subsystems would disrupt production and adversely affect our ability to deliver products to our customers. An unexpected termination of supply would require an investment in capital and manpower resources in order to shift to other suppliers and might cause a significant delay in introducing replacement products. We had a history of losses, and we cannot assure you that we will not incur additional losses in the future. 9 We incurred net losses of $11.3 million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31 2002 and 2003, respectively. We had net income of $10.8 million in 2004 and $2.7 million in 2005. We incurred a net income of $4.4 million for the first quarter of 2006. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to generate consistent profitability could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our shares. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively. We differentiate our products and technologies from those of our competitors by using our proprietary software, our image processing algorithms and the integration of our advanced hardware components. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trade secrets, patents, trademarks, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how and intellectual property, including hardware and software components of our products. These measures may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technologies and it may be possible for a third party, including a competitor, to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technologies without authorization or to develop similar technologies independently. Additionally, our products may be sold in countries, particularly in the Asia Pacific region, that provide less protection to intellectual property than that provided under U.S. or Israeli laws. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in the prices of our products becoming less competitive or in additional expenses. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect the prices of our products. Our prices in most countries outside of Europe and Japan are denominated in dollars. In those countries, if there is a significant devaluation in the local currency compared to the dollar, the prices of our products will increase relative to that local currency and may be less competitive. In addition, much of our service income is denominated in local currencies. If a larger number of our sales were to be denominated in currencies other than dollars, our reported revenue and earnings would be subject to a greater degree to foreign exchange fluctuations. We generate most of our revenues in dollars but incur a significant portion of our salary and operating expenses in NIS. Appreciation between US dollar and NIS may adversely affect our result of operations in dollar terms. As a result, we bear the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar, which would increase our costs expressed in dollars. We incur a significant portion of our expenses in China in the Yuan, and these expenses may rise with our increasing activities there. The Yuan is currently linked to the dollar. While the value of the Yuan has generally been stable in recent years and has been controlled by China’s central government, it may fluctuate according to substantial changes in the political and economic conditions in China. The Chinese government is under continued international pressure to permit the Yuan to enter a full or limited free float. The appreciation of the Yuan against the dollar may adversely affect our results of operations in dollar terms. Our dependence on a single manufacturing facility magnifies the risk of an interruption in our production capabilities. We have only one manufacturing facility, which is located in Migdal Ha’Emek, Israel. Any event affecting this site, including natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue our manufacturing capabilities and could significantly impair our ability to fulfill orders and generate revenues, thus negatively impacting our business. We may experience fluctuations in our future operating results, making it difficult to predict future results. Our revenues and net income, if any, in any particular period may be lower than revenues and net income, if any, in a preceding or comparable period. This complicates our planning processes and reduces the predictability of our earnings. Period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as indications of our future performance. 10 Our quarterly results of operations may be subject to significant fluctuations due to the following factors: — the size, timing and shipment of substantial orders; — customer budget cycles and installation schedules; — product introductions; — the pricing of our products; — the timing of new product upgrades or enhancements; — temporary shifts in industry capacity — the timing of installation or, in some cases, of acceptance of our products by our customers; and — interest and exchange rates. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. Our continued growth and success largely depends on the managerial and technical skills of the members of our senior management and key employees. If we continue expanding our operations, we believe that we will need to promote and hire qualified engineering, administrative, operational, financial and marketing personnel. In particular, we may find it difficult to hire key personnel with the requisite knowledge of our business, products and technologies. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. During periods of economic growth, competition for qualified engineering and technical personnel is intense. If our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rafi Amit, who is currently handling the development of our business in the Far East, other members of our senior management or any of our key employees are unable or unwilling to continue to be employed by us, our business would suffer. We do not have a key man life insurance policy for Mr. Amit. Our relationship with Priortech may give rise to conflicts of interest. From time to time, we purchase products of, or sell products to, other companies owned or controlled by Priortech, our principal shareholder, and act jointly with respect to governmental and administrative matters and the purchase from third parties of various products and services, which may create conflicts of interest. Although Israeli law imposes procedural requirements, including obtaining special shareholder approvals for interested party transactions, we cannot be certain that those procedures will eliminate the possible detrimental effects of any of these transactions and activities. In addition Mr. Rafi Amit acts as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, on a full time basis as well as acting as Priortech’s Chairman of the Board Of Directors. Mr. Yotam Stern, our Executive Vice President, Business & Strategy, spends 40% of his time serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Priortech and other positions in the Priortech group. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our passive income would not include income derived from the sale of our products but would include amounts derived by reason of the temporary investment of any cash amounts. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to our shareholders, including gain realized on the sale of our ordinary shares being treated as ordinary income rather than capital gain income and could result in punitive interest charges being applied to such sales proceeds. U.S. shareholders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. 11 Based on an analysis of our assets and income, we believe that in 2005 we were not a PFIC. We currently expect that we will not be a PFIC in 2006. However, PFIC status is determined as of the end of the taxable year and is dependent on a number of factors, including the relative value of our passive assets and our non-passive assets, our market capitalization and the amount and type of our gross income. Therefore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2006 or in a future year. For a discussion of how we might be characterized as a PFIC and related tax consequences, please see “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-Tax Consequences if we are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Our share price has been volatile in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Our ordinary shares have experienced significant market price and volume fluctuations in the past. During the period from January 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006, the price of our ordinary shares ranged from $2.56 to $5.5.Our ordinary shares may experience significant market price and volume fluctuations in response to factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as the following: — quarterly variations in our operating results; — market conditions relating to our customers’ industries; — operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; — changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; — large block transactions in our ordinary shares; — announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; — announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; — announcements of significant claims or proceedings against us; — additions or departures of our key personnel; — future sales of our ordinary shares; and — general stock market price and volume fluctuations. Stock markets often experience extreme price and volume fluctuations. Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, such as a recession, interest rate or currency rate fluctuations or political events or hostilities in Israel or the surrounding region could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. In the future, we could be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could be protracted, result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 12 Our principal shareholder, Priortech, holds a controlling interest in us and will be able to exercise its control in ways that may be adverse to your interests. Priortech beneficially holds 62.3% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Priortech has the power to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including the election of members of our board and the approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of making it more difficult to obtain approval for a change in control of us. Messrs. Rafi Amit, Yotam Stern and Itzhak Krell control Priortech and may be deemed to control us. Risks Relating to Our Operations in Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. Our principal offices and sole research and development and manufacturing facilities are located in the State of Israel. We depend on components imported from outside of Israel and almost all of our sales occur outside of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: — any major hostilities involving Israel; — a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; — the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; and — a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since September 2000, there has been a marked increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza. There is no indication as to how long the current hostilities will last or whether there will be any further escalation. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region may have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect our share price. The execution of Israel’s plan of unilateral disengagement from the Gaza Strip and some parts of the West Bank and Hamas’ gaining majority of the Palestinian Parliament in the elections held recently in the Palestinian Authority, may affect Israel’s security, foreign relations and the stability of the region. Increased hostilities, future armed conflicts, political developments in other states in the region, or continued or increased terrorism could make it more difficult for us to conduct our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. Furthermore, there are a number of countries, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, that restrict business with Israel or Israeli companies, and we are precluded from marketing our products to these countries. Restrictive laws or policies of those countries directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses may have an adverse impact on our operations, our financial results or the expansion of our business. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of our key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Some of our employees in Israel, including certain key employees, are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli army and are subject to being called up for reserve duty at any time. The absence of one or more of our officers and key employees for significant periods of time due to military service could be disruptive to our operations. 13 The Israeli government programs and tax benefits in which we have participated in the past and in which we currently participate or from which we receive benefits require us to meet several conditions. These programs or benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs. We benefit from certain Israeli government programs and tax benefits, particularly from tax exemptions and reductions resulting from the Approved Enterprise status of our manufacturing facilities in Israel. To be eligible for these programs and tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment and financing a percentage of those investments with our share capital. If we fail to meet such conditions in the future, these tax benefits could be cancelled, and we could be required to refund those tax benefits already received. These programs and tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all, and our requests for future participation in these programs for any future expansion of our manufacturing facilities may not be approved. In recent years, the Israeli government has reduced the benefits available under certain of its programs in which we do not participate. The termination or reduction of these programs and tax benefits could increase our tax rates, thereby reducing our net profits or increasing our net losses. The government grants we received in the past for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products or to transfer technologies outside of Israel. From our inception through 2000, we received government grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, or OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our product development expenditures. In March 2001, we commenced repayment of many of these grants pursuant to an understanding reached with the OCS. As of June 1, 2005, we have fully repaid the grants received by us from the OCS. Except for special circumstances and if we obtain governmental consents and pay to the OCS amounts which may be substantial, the terms of these grants prohibit us from selling or transferring rights in the technology developed with the grants to parties outside of Israel and allow sale or transfer of rights within Israel only with special governmental approvals, even after full repayment of the grants. Elements of our technologies, including in the areas of electronic hardware, image processing, electro-optics, physics and mechanics, were developed with OCS grants. In addition, we may only manufacture products developed with these grants outside of Israel pursuant to the approval of a special governmental committee, and any approval of this nature may also require us to pay a further significant amount of royalties than the terms of the grants required, unless the amount of production outside Israel is less than 10% of the original rate of production and the OCS has not resisted to the transfer of products. The restrictions regarding the sale or transfer of technology or manufacturing rights out of Israel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into strategic alliances or enter into merger or acquisition transactions in the future that provide for the sale or transfer of our technology or manufacturing rights. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors and some of the experts named in this annual report or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors and our Israeli accountants and attorneys are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, including one based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Additionally, it may be difficult for you to assert U.S. federal securities laws claims or to enforce civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws in actions originally instituted in Israel. Some provisions of Israeli law could inhibit the acquisition of us by others. 14 Some provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger at a shareholders’ meeting called upon at least 21 days’ notice. A merger may not be completed until at least 50 days have passed since the filing of the merger proposal with the Israeli Registrar of Companies. The Israeli Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by way of a tender offer if, as a result of the acquisition, the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a majority shareholder of the company. In any event, if, as a result of an acquisition of shares, the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. For more information on the provisions of Israeli law in these contexts, please see sections “Share Capital” and “Israeli Taxation.” 