ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 in Part II of this Report, contains certain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements contain estimates of, or express our expectations, beliefs or views regarding, our future financial performance, which are based on current information and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual operating results and financial performance in the future to differ, possibly significantly, from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For that reason, you should not place undue reliance on those forward-looking statements. Those risks and uncertainties include, although they are not limited to, the following: We face intense competition from other banks and financial institutions that could hurt our business We conduct our business operations in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by a relatively small number of large multi-state banks with operations and offices covering wide geographical areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services as well as products and services that we do not offer. The larger banks, and some of those other financial institutions, have greater resources that enable them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. Some of these banks and institutions also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits that enable them to attract larger clients, and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, particularly with respect to attracting loans and deposits. Increased competition may prevent us (i) from achieving increases, or could even result in decreases, in our loan volume or deposit balances, or (ii) from increasing interest rates on loans or reducing interest rates we pay to attract or retain deposits, any of which could cause a decline in our interest income or an increase in our interest expense, that could lead to reductions in our net interest income and earnings. 17 Table of Contents Adverse changes in economic conditions in Southern California could disproportionately harm our business The large majority of our customers and the properties securing a large proportion of our loans are located in Southern California. A downturn in economic conditions or the occurrence of natural disasters in Southern California could harm our business by: • reducing loan demand which, in turn, would lead to reduced net interest margins and net interest income; • affecting the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to make additional provisions for possible loan losses, thereby reducing our earnings; and • causing reductions in real property values that, due to our reliance on real property to secure many of our loans, could make it more difficult for us to prevent losses from being incurred on non-performing loans through the sale of such real properties. National economic conditions and changes in Federal Reserve Board monetary policies could affect our operating results Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is substantially dependent on our net interest income. Like most banking organizations and other depository institutions, our net interest income is affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including changes in market rates of interest, that occur from time to time as a result of changes in national economic conditions, and changes by the Federal Reserve Board in its monetary policies in response to threats of increased inflation, a slowing of economic growth or the on-set of recessionary conditions. For example, interest rate reductions by the Federal Reserve Board or a slowing of the economy can result in decreases in the interest we can earn on loans and other interest-earning assets. Also, our net interest margin and net interest income could decline if we are not able, in response to such conditions, to reduce the interest rates we must pay on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities to the same extent as we are required to reduce the rates we are able to charge on the loans we make. Adverse changes in economic conditions also could cause potential borrowers to fail to qualify for our loan products and reduce loan demand, thereby reducing our net interest margins and our net interest income. In addition, adverse changes in economic conditions could adversely affect the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations which could result in an increase in loan losses and could require us to increase the provisions we must make for possible loan losses, which would reduce our income. We could incur losses on the loans we make The failure or inability of borrowers to repay their loans is an inherent risk in the banking business. We take a number of measures designed to reduce this risk, including the maintenance of stringent loan underwriting policies, the establishment of reserves for possible loan losses and the requirement that borrowers provide collateral that we could sell in the event they fail to pay their loans. However, the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, the adequacy of our reserves and our ability to sell collateral for amounts sufficient to offset loan losses are affected by a number of factors outside of our control, such as changes in economic conditions, increases in market rates of interest and changes in the condition or value of the collateral securing our loans. As a result, we could incur losses on the loans we make that will hurt our operating results and weaken our financial condition. Expansion of existing financial centers might not achieve expected growth or increases in profitability We have grown substantially in the past eight years by (i) opening new financial centers in population centers, and (ii) adding banking professionals at our existing financial centers, with the objective of attracting additional customers including, in particular, small to medium size businesses, that will add to our profitability. We intend to continue that growth strategy. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in achieving this objective. Implementation of this strategy will require us to incur expenses in establishing new financial centers or adding banking professionals, long before we are able to attract, and with no assurance that we will succeed in attracting, a sufficient number of new customers that will enable us to generate the revenues needed to increase our profitability. As a result, our earnings could decline if we are unable to successfully implement this strategy. Government regulations may impair our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs We are subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and state bank regulatory agencies. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and other customers and not shareholders, whose respective interests will often differ. The regulatory agencies have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors and customers of banking institutions, even if those restrictions would adversely affect the ability of the banking institution to expand its business or pay cash dividends, or result in increases in its costs of doing business or hinder its ability to compete with financial services companies that are not regulated or banks or financial service organizations that are less regulated. Additionally, due to the complex and technical nature of many of the government regulations to which banking organizations are subject, inadvertent violations of those regulations may occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations. If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, fine us or ultimately put us out of business. 18 Table of Contents Our computer and network systems may be vulnerable to unforeseen problems and security risks The computer systems and network infrastructure that we use to provide automated and internet banking services could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes and similar catastrophic events and from security breaches. Any of those occurrences could result in damage to or a failure of our computer systems that could cause an interruption in our banking services and, therefore, harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches that could result in the theft of confidential customer information could lead existing customers to terminate their banking relationships with us and could make it more difficult for us to attract new banking customers. The loss of key personnel could hurt our financial performance Our success depends to a great extent on the continued availability of our existing management and, in particular, on Raymond E. Dellerba, our President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition to their skills and experience as bankers, our executive officers provide us with extensive community ties upon which our competitive strategy is partially based. As a result, the loss of the services of any of these officers could harm our ability to implement our business strategy or our future operating results. Due to these and other possible uncertainties and risks, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements contained in this Report, which speak only as of the date of this Report. We also disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements contained in this Report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 