ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Report”) or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks that may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also adversely impact our financial condition, business operations and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business Our operations and regulatory capital needs require us to enhance our capital position in the near term and may also require us to raise additional capital in the future. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As part of the Final Order, the Bank was required to increase its capital prior to certain dates, and is required to maintain certain regulatory capital ratios, as specified in the Final Order. The Bank is required to maintain a ratio of tangible stockholders’ equity to total tangible assets as follows: Date Ratio of Tangible Stockholders’ Equity to Total Tangible Assets By July 31, 2010 Not Less Than 9.0 Percent From December 31, 2010 and Until the Final Order is Terminated Not Less Than 9.5 Percent At December 31, 2011, the Bank had a tangible stockholders’ equity to total tangible assets ratio of 12.48 percent. Accordingly, we are in compliance with the Final Order. Pursuant to the Written Agreement, we were also required to increase, and are required to maintain, sufficient capital at the Company and at the Bank that is satisfactory to the Federal Reserve Bank. Should our asset quality erode and require significant additional provision for credit losses, resulting in consistent net operating losses at the Bank, our capital levels will decline and we will need to raise capital to satisfy our agreements with the regulators and any future regulatory orders or agreements we may be subject to. The Bank is subject to additional regulatory oversight as a result of a formal regulatory enforcement action issued by the Federal Reserve Bank and the California Department of Financial Institutions. On November 2, 2009, the members of the Board of Directors of the Bank consented to the issuance of the Final Order from the California Department Financial Institutions. On the same date, we and the Bank entered into the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank. Under the terms of the Final Order and the Written Agreement, the Bank is required to implement certain corrective and remedial measures under strict time frames. 33 Table of Contents These regulatory actions will remain in effect until modified, terminated, suspended or set aside by the Federal Reserve Bank or the California Department of Financial Institutions, as applicable. Failure to comply with the terms of these regulatory actions within the applicable time frames provided or any extended deadlines could result in additional orders or penalties from the Federal Reserve Bank and the California Department of Financial Institutions, which could include further restrictions on our business, assessment of civil money penalties on us and the Bank, as well as our respective directors, officers and other affiliated parties, termination of deposit insurance, removal of one or more officers and/or directors, the liquidation or other closure of the Bank and our ability to continue as a going concern. Generally, these enforcement actions will be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. We may become subject to additional regulatory restrictions in the event that our regulatory capital levels were to decline. We cannot provide any assurance that our total risk-based capital ratio or other regulatory capital ratios will not decline in the future such that the Bank may be considered to be “undercapitalized” for regulatory purposes. If a state member bank, like the Bank, is classified as undercapitalized, the bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the Federal Reserve Bank. Pursuant to Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, an undercapitalized bank is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the Federal Reserve Bank of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Federal Reserve Board Regulation H, the Bank was previously required to submit a capital restoration plan to the Federal Reserve Bank that must be guaranteed by the Company as a result of the previous decline in the Bank’s capital position. the Bank is also subject to other restrictions pursuant to Section 38 and Federal Reserve Board Regulation H, including restrictions on dividends, asset growth and expansion through acquisitions, branching or new lines of business and is prohibited from paying certain management fees until its improving capital ratios are deemed satisfactory by its regulators. The Federal Reserve Bank also has the discretion to impose certain other corrective actions pursuant to Section 38 and Regulation H. If a bank is classified as significantly undercapitalized, the Federal Reserve Bank would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions. These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital; improvements in management; limits on interest rates paid; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; termination of certain risky activities and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers. These actions may also be taken by the Federal Reserve Bank at any time on an undercapitalized bank if it determines those restrictions are necessary. If a bank is classified as critically undercapitalized, in addition to the foregoing restrictions, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act prohibits payment on any subordinated debt and requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within 90 days, unless the Federal Reserve Bank determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, including brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. 34 Table of Contents Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as a result of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. We may be required to make additional provisions for credit losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. There has been a general slowdown in the economy and in particular, in the housing market in areas of Southern California where a majority of our loan customers are based, along with high unemployment. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to a financial strain on homebuilders and suppliers, as well as an overall decrease in the collateral value of real estate securing loans. As of December 31, 2011, we had $749.9 million in real estate loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential property and construction segment in particular, along with high levels of unemployment, could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Our Southern California business focus and economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. The Bank’s operations are located primarily in Los Angeles and Orange counties. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. The continued deterioration in economic conditions in the Bank’s market areas, continued high unemployment or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations. Our concentration in loans collateralized by commercial real estate property located primarily in Southern California could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank’s loan portfolio included commercial property, construction, and commercial and industrial loans, which were collateralized by commercial real estate properties located primarily in Southern California, amounting to $1.6 billion, or 83.1 percent of total gross loans. Because of this concentration, a potential deterioration of the commercial real estate market in Southern California could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Among the factors that could contribute to such a potential decline are general economic conditions in Southern California, interest rates and local market construction and sales activity. Our concentrations of loans in certain industries could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank’s loan portfolio included loans to: 1) lessors of non-residential buildings totaling $380.7 million, or 19.6 percent of total gross loans; 2) borrowers in the accommodation industry totaling $283.6 million, or 14.6 percent of total gross loans; and 3) gas stations totaling $260.1 million, or 13.4 percent of 35 Table of Contents total gross loans. Most of these loans are in Southern California. Because of these concentrations of loans in specific industries, a continued deterioration of the Southern California economy overall, and specifically within these industries, could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, which could have material and adverse consequences for the Bank. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small or middle market businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important customer sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make loans secured by real property does not ensure that the value of the real property collateral will be sufficient to repay our loans. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and requires the exercise of a considerable degree of judgment and adherence to professional standards. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon sale or foreclosure of the property, whether due to declines in property values after the date of the original appraisal or defective preparation, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property and may suffer losses. We may still be subject to continued regulatory scrutiny. Even with the completion of the underwritten public offering of our common stock by which we raised $77.1 million in net proceeds in November 2011, and the satisfaction of the capital ratio requirements set forth in the regulatory agreements and orders we have entered into, we cannot assure you whether or when such regulatory agreements and orders will be lifted or terminated. Even if they are lifted or terminated in whole or in part, we may still be subject to supervisory enforcement actions that restrict our activities. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and reduction in general business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 36 Table of Contents • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by an inability to access the capital markets, unforeseen or extraordinary demands on cash, or regulatory restrictions, which could, among other things, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Instability in domestic and international financial markets could adversely affect us Global capital markets and economic conditions are still unstable and the resulting disruption has been particularly acute in the financial sector. As the European credit crisis continues, with the bailout of Greece, and problems in other countries such as Italy and Spain, there is a growing risk to the financial condition and stability of major European banks. During the past several years, several large European bank experienced financial difficulty and were either rescued by government assistance of by other large European banks. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact regulatory initiatives will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of regulatory initiatives to help stabilize the financial markets and a worsening of financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital, liquidity, the financial condition of our borrowers and credit or the value of our securities. Our success depends on our key management. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract key people who are qualified and have knowledge and experience in the banking industry in our markets and to retain those people to successfully implement our business objectives. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to maintain consistent personnel in management could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Our interest expense may increase following the repeal of the Federal prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits. The federal prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if the Bank begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by changes in economic conditions, including finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The economic conditions in the markets in which many of our borrowers operate have deteriorated and the levels of loan delinquency and defaults that we experienced were substantially higher than historical levels. 37 Table of Contents If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, it may exacerbate the following consequences: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believe are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A downturn in the real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer material losses on defaulted loans. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current historically low interest rate environment caused by the response to the financial market crisis and the global economic recession may affect our operating earnings negatively. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, including the recent enactment of Dodd-Frank Act, changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially from historical and projected 38 Table of Contents performance. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve Board, significantly affects credit conditions and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulations could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system have resulted in the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, including expansive financial services regulatory reform legislation. Dodd-Frank, adopted in July 2010, sets out sweeping regulatory changes. Changes imposed by the Dodd-Frank include, among others: (i) new requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including modified capital requirements, the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand accounts, and debit card interchange fee requirements; (ii) corporate governance and executive compensation requirements; (iii) enhanced financial institution safety and soundness regulations, including increases in assessment fees and deposit insurance coverage; and (iv) the establishment of new regulatory bodies, such as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. Certain provisions are effective immediately; however, much of the Financial Reform Act is subject to further rulemaking and/or studies. As such, while we are subject to the legislation, we cannot fully assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank until final rules are implemented, which depending on the rule, could be within six to twenty four months from the enactment of the Dodd-Frank, or later. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions and regulations, including those imposed under Dodd-Frank, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and accompanying rules and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. Our Tier 1 risk-based capital will be negatively impacted by the Collins Amendment provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Collins Amendment provision of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes increased capital requirements in the future. The Collins Amendment also requires federal banking regulators to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements to apply to insured depository institutions, bank and thrift holding companies, and systemically important nonbank financial companies. These capital requirements must not be less than the Generally Applicable Risk Based Capital Requirements and the Generally Applicable Leverage Capital Requirements as of July 21, 2010, and must not be quantitatively lower than the requirements that were in effect for insured depository institution as of July 21, 2010. The Collins Amendment defines Generally Applicable Risk Based Capital Requirements and Generally Applicable Leverage Capital Requirements to mean the risk-based capital requirements and minimum ratios of Tier 1 risk-based capital to average total assets, respectively, established by the appropriate federal banking agencies to apply to insured depository institutions under the Prompt Corrective Action provisions, regardless of total consolidated asset size or foreign financial exposure. Over a three-year phase-out period effective January 1, 2013, trust preferred securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 risk-based capital for certain bank holding companies, including us. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“Bureau”) within the Federal Reserve. The Bureau is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The Bureau has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are more stringent than those regulations promulgated by the Bureau, and state attorneys general are permitted to enforce consumer protection rules adopted by the Bureau against state-chartered institutions, including the Bank. 39 Table of Contents The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) up to prescribed limits for each depositor. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), the maximum deposit insurance amount has been permanently increased to $250,000 and all non-interest-bearing transaction accounts are insured. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each DIF member institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios and other supervisory factors. Due to the greatly increased number of bank failures and losses incurred by DIF, as well as the recent extraordinary programs in which the FDIC has been involved to support the banking industry generally, the FDIC’s DIF was substantially depleted and the FDIC has incurred substantially increased operating costs. In November, 2009, the FDIC adopted a requirement for institutions to prepay in 2009 their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. The Bank received a waiver from prepayment of the FDIC assessment. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan which became effective on January 1, 2011. Among other things, the plan: (1) raises the minimum designated reserve ratio, which the FDIC is required to set each year, to 1.35 percent (from the former minimum of 1.15 percent) and removes the upper limit on the designated reserve ratio (which was formerly capped at 1.5 percent) and consequently on the size of the fund; (2) requires that the fund reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15 percent by the end of 2016, as formerly required); (3) requires that, in setting assessments, the FDIC offset the effect of requiring that the reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020, rather than 1.15 percent by the end of 2016 on insured depository institutions with total consolidated assets of less than $10 billion; (4) eliminates the requirement that the FDIC provide dividends from the fund when the reserve ratio is between 1.35 percent and 1.5 percent; and (5) continues the FDIC’s authority to declare dividends when the reserve ratio at the end of a calendar year is at least 1.5 percent, but grants the FDIC sole discretion in determining whether to suspend or limit the declaration or payment of dividends. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act continues to require that the FDIC’s Board of Directors consider the appropriate level for the designated reserve ratio annually and, if changing the designated reserve ratio, engage in notice-and-comment rulemaking before the beginning of the calendar year. The FDIC has set a long-term goal of getting its reserve ratio up to 2 percent of insured deposits by 2027. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, changing the deposit insurance assessment system from one that is based on total domestic deposits to one that is based on average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. In addition, the final rule creates a scorecard-based assessment system for larger banks (those with more than $10 billion in assets) and suspends dividend payments if the DIF reserve ratio exceeds 1.5 percent, but provides for decreasing assessment rates when the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio reaches certain thresholds. Larger insured depository institutions will likely pay higher assessments to the DIF than under the old system. Additionally, the final rule includes a new adjustment for depository institution debt whereby an institution would pay an additional premium equal to 50 basis points on every dollar of long-term, unsecured debt held as an asset that was issued by another insured depository institution (excluding debt guaranteed under the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program) to the extent that all such debt exceeds 3 percent of the other insured depository institution’s Tier 1 capital. Our FDIC insurance expense totaled $6.3 million for 2011. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These announced increases and any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse effect on our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock. 40 Table of Contents The impact of the new Basel III capital standards will likely impose enhanced capital adequacy standards on us. On September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III, which were approved in November 2010 by the G20 leadership. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5 percent, net of regulatory deductions, and introduces a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5 percent of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7 percent. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5 percent inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, increases the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5 percent inclusive of the capital buffer and introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5 percent of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3 percent, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital and liquidity standards will be phased in over a multi-year period. The Federal Reserve will likely implement changes to the capital adequacy standards applicable to us and the Bank which will increase our capital requirements and compliance costs. A failure by the U.S. government to meet the conditions of the August 2011 debt ceiling agreement or to reduce its budget deficit or a further downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt could have a material adverse effect on the availability of financing, our borrowing costs, the liquidity and valuation of securities in our investment portfolio, our financial condition and our results of operations. As widely reported, there continues to be concerns over the ability of the United States government to reduce its budget deficit and resolve its debt crisis. The U.S. sovereign debt was downgraded from AAA to AA+ in August 2011 and continues to be under review for a downgrade of its credit rating to account for the risk that U.S. lawmakers fail to meet the conditions of the August 2011 debt ceiling agreement and/or reduce its overall debt. Any such failures or a downgrade of the U.S. sovereign debt rating could have a material adverse effect both on the U.S. economy and on the global economy. In particular, this could cause disruption in the capital markets and impact the stability of future U.S. treasury auctions and the trading market for U.S. government securities, resulting in increased interest rates and borrowing costs. The Bank relies on customer deposits, brokered deposits and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank to fund operations. The Bank’s financial flexibility will be severely constrained if it is unable to maintain its access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If the Bank is required to rely on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, revenues may not increase proportionately to cover costs. In this case, profitability would be adversely affected. Any of these factors could negatively impact our borrowing costs and our liquidity, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and our results of operations. We are subject to the risk that the global credit crisis, despite efforts by global governments to halt that crisis, may affect interest rates and the availability of financing in general, which could adversely affect our financing and our operating results. During the past several years, several large European banks experienced financial difficulty and were either rescued by government assistance or by other large European banks. Several European governments have coordinated plans to attempt to shore up their financial sectors through loans, credit guarantees, capital infusions, promises of continued liquidity funding and interest rate cuts. Additionally, other governments of the world’s largest economic countries also implemented interest rate cuts. There is no assurance that these and other plans and programs will be successful in halting the global credit crisis or in preventing other banks from failing. If unsuccessful, this could adversely affect our financing and operations as well as those of the entire banking sector in general. 41 Table of Contents Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, making loans, and attracting and retaining employees, particularly in the Korean-American community. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may be materially and adversely impacted depending upon the nature and level of competition. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. Fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. We offer various Internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintain our clients’ confidence in our online services. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory 42 Table of Contents consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. In addition, legislation and regulations which impose restrictions on executive compensation may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, and finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. Failure to attract or retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures could fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurances of the effectiveness of these systems and controls, and that the objectives of these controls have been met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures, and any failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to use some or all of our net operating loss carryforwards may be impaired. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s NOLs, as well as certain recognized built-in losses and other carryforwards, after an “ownership change” occurs. A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5 percent of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of pre-change NOLs and other losses we can use to reduce our taxable income generally equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” and the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt interest rate for the month of the “ownership change.” Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The Bank is currently restricted from paying dividends to us and we are restricted from paying dividends to stockholders and from making any payments on our trust preferred securities. The primary source of our income from which we pay our obligations and distribute dividends to our stockholders is from the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. The Bank currently has a retained deficit of $218.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and has suffered net losses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, largely caused by provision for credit losses and goodwill impairments. As a result, the California Financial Code does not provide authority for the Bank to declare a dividend to us, with or without Commissioner approval. In addition, the Bank is prohibited from paying dividends to us unless it receives prior regulatory approval. Furthermore, we agreed that we will not pay any dividends or make any payments on our outstanding $82.4 million of trust preferred securities or any other capital distributions without the prior written consent of the Federal Reserve Bank. 43 Table of Contents We began to defer interest payment on our trust preferred securities commencing with the interest payment that was due on January 15, 2009. If we defer interest payments for more than 20 consecutive quarters under any of our outstanding trust preferred instruments, then we would be in default under such trust preferred arrangements and the amounts due under the agreements pursuant to which we issued our trust preferred securities would be immediately due and payable. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely because of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional stockholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors identified above in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation and potential delisting from the NASDAQ. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings for a number 44 Table of Contents of reasons, including in response to regulatory or other requirements to meet our liquidity and capital needs, to finance our operations and business strategy or for other reasons. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities or instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will further be reduced, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock, and the market of our common stock could decline. In addition, we have adopted a stock option plan that provides for the granting of stock options to our directors, executive officers and other employees. As of December 31, 2011, 383,361 shares of our common stock were issuable under options granted in connection with our stock option plans and stock warrants issued in connection with the registered rights and best efforts offerings. In addition, 183,920 shares of our common stock are reserved for future issuance to directors, officers and employees under our stock option plans. It is probable that the stock options will be exercised during their respective terms if the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the particular option. If the stock options are exercised, your share ownership will be diluted. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2011, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to an additional 32,500,000 shares of common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for preemptive rights to the holders of our common stock. Any authorized but unissued shares are available for issuance by our Board of Directors. As a result, if we issue additional shares of common stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes, you may be unable to maintain your pro rata ownership in the Company. Future sales of common stock by existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. Holders of our junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding $82.4 million of trust preferred securities issued by our subsidiary trusts. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. The junior subordinated debentures underlying the trust preferred securities are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock. We commenced deferring distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) with the payment that was due on January 15, 2009. Anti-takeover provisions and state and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, supermajority voting approval for certain actions, limitation on large stockholders taking certain actions and the authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone, thus without obtaining stockholder approval. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either Federal Reserve Bank approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the Federal Reserve Bank and not disapproved 45 Table of Contents prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 46 Table of Contents 