Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Report”) and other documents we filed with the SEC. The following risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we may currently view as not material, may also adversely impact our financial condition, business operations and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Business Unfavorable economic and market conditions could continue to adversely affect our industry. Declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Unfavorable economic developments beginning in 2008 have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. The impact on the Bank’s credit quality has stabilized; however, there is a risk that economic conditions will deteriorate. Further economic deterioration could exacerbate the adverse effects of the difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Particularly, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by an inability to access the capital markets, unforeseen or extraordinary demands on cash, or regulatory restrictions. Our Southern California business focus and economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. The Bank’s operations are located primarily in Los Angeles County and Orange County in Southern California. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. A further deterioration in the economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery in the Bank’s market areas, or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our concentration in loans collateralized by commercial real estate property located primarily in Southern California could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2013, the Bank’s loan portfolio included commercial property, construction, and commercial and industrial loans, which were collateralized by commercial real estate properties located primarily in Southern California, totaling $1.98 billion, or 88.6 percent of total gross loans. Because of this concentration, a potential deterioration of the commercial real estate market in Southern California could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Among the factors that could contribute to such a potential decline are general economic conditions in Southern California, interest rates and local market construction and sales activity. Our concentrations of loans in certain industries could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2013, the Bank’s loan portfolio included loans to: (i) lessors of non-residential buildings totaling $615.0 million, or 27.5 percent of total gross loans; (ii) borrowers in the accommodation industry totaling $332.1 million, or 14.9 percent of total gross loans; and (iii) gas stations totaling $304.6 million, or 13.6 percent of total gross loans. Most of these loans are in Southern California. Because of these concentrations of loans in specific industries, a continued deterioration of the Southern California economy overall, and specifically within these industries, could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, which could have material and adverse consequences for the Bank. Our focus on lending to small to mid-sized community-based businesses may increase our credit risk. Most of our commercial business and commercial real estate loans are made to small or middle market businesses. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities and have a heightened vulnerability to economic conditions. If general economic conditions in the markets in which we operate negatively impact this important customer sector, our results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. Moreover, a portion of these loans have been made by us in recent years and the borrowers may not have experienced a complete business or economic cycle. Furthermore, the deterioration of our borrowers’ businesses may hinder their ability to repay their loans with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make loans secured by real property does not ensure that the value of the real property collateral will be sufficient to repay our loans. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property. However, an appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made and requires the exercise of a considerable degree of judgment and adherence to professional standards. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon sale or foreclosure of the property, whether due to declines in property values after the date of the original appraisal or defective preparation, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property and may suffer losses. Changes in economic conditions could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by changes in economic conditions, including financial, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. The economic conditions in the markets in which many of our borrowers operate have deteriorated and the levels of loan delinquency and defaults that we experienced were substantially higher than historical levels. If economic conditions deteriorate, it may exacerbate the following consequences: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believe are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A downturn in the real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies, and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer material losses on defaulted loans. 22 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover inherent losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current historically low interest rate environment caused by the response to the financial market crisis and the global economic recession may affect our operating earnings negatively. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, including brokered deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as a result of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, including the enactment of Dodd-Frank, changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws, may cause our results to differ materially from historical and projected performance. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve, significantly affects credit conditions, and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank and other regulations could adversely affect us. Dodd-Frank and related regulations subject us and other financial institutions to more restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs. In addition, this increased regulation of the financial services industry restricts the ability of institutions within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including aspects such as compensation, interest rates, new and inconsistent consumer protection regulations and mortgage regulation, among others. Federal and state regulatory agencies also frequently adopt changes to their regulations or change the manner in which existing regulations are applied. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions and regulations, including those imposed under Dodd-Frank, may adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and accompanying rules, and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Dodd-Frank created the CFPB within the Federal Reserve. The CFPB is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The CFPB has rulemaking authority over many of the 23 Table of Contents statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. In addition, Dodd-Frank permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are more stringent than those regulations promulgated by the CFPB, and state attorneys general are permitted to enforce consumer protection rules adopted by the CFPB against state-chartered institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC’s restoration plan and the related increased assessment rate could adversely affect our earnings. As required by Dodd-Frank, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan which became effective on January 1, 2011. Among other things, the plan (i) raises the minimum designated reserve ratio, which the FDIC is required to set each year, to 1.35 percent (from the former minimum of 1.15 percent) and removes the upper limit on the designated reserve ratio (which was formerly capped at 1.5 percent) and consequently on the size of the fund, and (ii) requires that the fund reserve ratio reach 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020 (rather than 1.15 percent by the end of 2016, as formerly required). The FDIA continues to require that the FDIC’s Board of Directors consider the appropriate level for the designated reserve ratio annually and, if changing the designated reserve ratio, engage in notice-and-comment rulemaking before the beginning of the calendar year. The FDIC has set a long-term goal of getting its reserve ratio up to 2 percent of insured deposits by 2027. The amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance is generally beyond our control. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures or if the FDIC otherwise determines, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. These increases and any future increases in FDIC insurance premiums may have a material and adverse effect on our earnings and could have a material adverse effect on the value of, or market for, our common stock. The impact of the new Basel III capital standards will likely impose enhanced capital adequacy standards on us. In June 2013, federal banking regulators jointly issued the Basel III Rules. The rules impose new capital requirements and implement Section 171 of Dodd-Frank. The new rules are to be phased in through 2019, beginning January 1, 2015. Among other things, the rules will require that we maintain a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, a total capital ratio of 8%, and a leverage ratio of 4%. In addition, we will have to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of total risk weighted assets or be subject to limitations on dividends and other capital distributions, as well as limiting discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. The new rules also restrict trust preferred securities from comprising more than 25% of Tier 1 capital. If an institution grows above $15 billion as a result of an acquisition, or organically grows above $15 billion and then makes an acquisition, the combined trust preferred issuances would be phased out of Tier 1 and into Tier 2 capital (75% in 2015 and 100% in 2016). The application of more stringent capital requirements could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, making loans, and attracting and retaining employees, particularly in the Korean-American community. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may be materially and adversely impacted depending upon the nature and level of competition. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be liable for breaches of security in our online banking services. Fear of security breaches could limit the growth of our online services. We offer various Internet-based services to our clients, including online banking services. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential to maintain our clients’ confidence in our online services. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect client transaction data. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to prevent security breaches and periodically test our security, failure to mitigate breaches of security could adversely affect our ability to offer and grow our online services and could harm our business. Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary Company, Bank or customer data. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security 24 Table of Contents breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. We are subject to operational risks relating to our technology and information systems. The continued efficacy of our technology and information systems, related operational infrastructure and relationships with third party vendors in our ongoing operations is integral to our performance. Failure of any of these resources, including but not limited to operational or systems failures, interruptions of client service operations and ineffectiveness of or interruption in third party data processing or other vendor support, may cause material disruptions in our business, impairment of customer relations and exposure to liability for our customers, as well as action by bank regulatory authorities. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract key people who are qualified and have knowledge and experience in the banking industry in our markets and to retain those people to successfully implement our business objectives. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense, particularly for qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, our banking space. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. In addition, legislation and regulations which impose restrictions on executive compensation may make it more difficult for us to retain and recruit key personnel. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and employees. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or failure to attract or retain such employees could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and disclosures to stockholders, to prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports and disclosures or prevent fraud, our business may be adversely affected and our reputation and operating results would be harmed. Any failure to develop or maintain effective internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures or difficulties encountered in their implementation may also result in regulatory enforcement action against us, adversely affect our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Changes in accounting standards may affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes and their impacts on us can be hard to predict and may result in unexpected and materially adverse impacts on our reported financial condition and results of operations. We are required to assess the recoverability of our deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis. Deferred tax assets are evaluated on a quarterly basis to determine if they are expected to be recoverable in the future. Our evaluation considers positive and negative evidence to assess whether it is more likely than not that a portion of the asset will not be realized. Future negative operating performance or other negative evidence may result in a valuation allowance being recorded against some or the entire amount. We may become subject to regulatory restrictions in the event that our capital levels decline. We cannot provide any assurance that our total risk-based capital ratio or other capital ratios will not decline in the future such that the Bank may be considered to be “undercapitalized” for regulatory purposes. If a state member bank, like the Bank, is classified as undercapitalized, the bank is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the FRB. Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (the “FDICIA”), an undercapitalized bank is prohibited from increasing its assets, engaging in a new line of business, acquiring any interest in any company or insured depository institution, or opening or acquiring a new branch office, except under certain circumstances, including the acceptance by the FRB of a capital restoration plan for the bank. Pursuant to Section 38 of the FDIA and Federal Reserve Regulation H, the FRB also has the discretion to impose certain other corrective actions. If a bank is classified as significantly undercapitalized, the FRB would be required to take one or more prompt corrective actions. These actions would include, among other things, requiring sales of new securities to bolster capital; improvements in 25 Table of Contents management; limits on interest rates paid; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; termination of certain risky activities and restrictions on compensation paid to executive officers. These actions may also be taken by the FRB at any time on an undercapitalized bank if it determines those restrictions are necessary. If a bank is classified as critically undercapitalized, in addition to the foregoing restrictions, the FDICIA prohibits payment on any subordinated debt and requires the bank to be placed into conservatorship or receivership within 90 days, unless the FRB determines that other action would better achieve the purposes of the FDICIA regarding prompt corrective action with respect to undercapitalized banks. As we expand outside our California markets, we may encounter additional risks that may adversely affect us. Currently, the majority of our offices are located in Southern California, but we also have two branches in Northern California and two LPOs in Washington and Texas. Over time, we may also seek to establish offices to serve Korean-American communities in other parts of the United States. In the course of these expansion activities, we may encounter significant risks, including unfamiliarity with the characteristics and business dynamics of new markets, increased marketing and administrative expenses and operational difficulties arising from our efforts to attract business in new markets, manage operations in noncontiguous geographic markets, comply with local laws and regulations and effectively and consistently manage our non-California personnel and business. If we are unable to manage these risks, our operations may be adversely affected. Changing conditions in South Korea could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to South Korea and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in South Korea. U.S. and global economic policies, political or political tension, and global economic conditions may adversely impact the South Korean economy. Management closely monitors our exposure to the South Korean economy and, to date, we have not experienced any significant loss attributable to our exposure to South Korea. Nevertheless, our efforts to minimize exposure to downturns in the South Korean economy may not be successful in the future, and a significant downturn in the South Korean economy could possibly have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If economic conditions in South Korea change, we could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to South Korea and a significant decrease in deposits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risks of natural disasters. A significant portion of our operations is concentrated in Southern California. California is in an earthquake-prone region. A major earthquake may result in material loss to us. A significant percentage of our loans are and will be secured by real estate. Many of our borrowers may suffer uninsured property damage, experience interruption of their businesses or lose their jobs after an earthquake. Those borrowers might not be able to repay their loans, and the collateral for such loans may decline significantly in value. Unlike a bank with operations that are more geographically diversified, we are vulnerable to greater losses if an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural catastrophe occurs in Southern California. We may experience adverse effects from acquisitions. We have acquired other banking companies in the past and consider additional acquisitions as opportunities arise. If we do not adequately address the financial and operational risks associated with acquisitions of other companies, including in connection with our pending acquisition of CBI, described in greater detail in this section under the subsection captioned “Risks Relating to the CBI Merger” and elsewhere in this Report, we may incur material unexpected costs and disruption of our business. Risks involved in acquisitions of other companies include: • the risk of failure to adequately evaluate the asset quality of the acquired company; • difficulty in assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention from other important business activities; • difficulty in maintaining good relations with the loan and deposit customers of the acquired company; • inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, especially considering geographic diversification; • potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; and • amortization of expenses related to acquired intangible assets that have finite lives. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The Bank could be restricted from paying dividends to us, its sole shareholder, and, thus, we would be restricted from paying dividends to our stockholders in the future. The primary source of our income from which we pay our obligations and distribute dividends to our stockholders is from the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. The Bank has a retained deficit of $79.7 million as of December 31, 2013 and suffered net losses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, largely caused by provision for credit losses and goodwill impairments. As a result, the California Financial Code does not provide authority for the Bank to declare a dividend to us, with or without approval of the Commissioner of Business Oversight. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional stockholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors identified above in the section captioned “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation and potential delisting from NASDAQ. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. Your share ownership may be diluted by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock in the future. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings for a number of reasons, including in response to regulatory or other requirements to meet our liquidity and capital needs, to finance our operations and business strategy or for other reasons. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities or instruments that are convertible into equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders will further be reduced, the new equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of our common stock, and the market of our common stock could decline. In addition, we have adopted a stock option plan that provides for the granting of stock options to our directors, executive officers and other employees. As of December 31, 2013, 1,078,668 shares of our common stock were issuable under options granted in connection with our stock option plans and stock warrants issued in connection with the registered rights and best efforts offerings. It is probable that the stock options will be exercised during their respective terms if the fair market value of our common stock exceeds the exercise price of the particular option. If the stock options are exercised, your share ownership will be diluted. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2013, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 62,500,000 shares of common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for preemptive rights to the holders of our common stock. Any authorized but unissued shares are available for issuance by our Board of Directors. As a result, if we issue additional shares of common stock to raise additional capital or for other corporate purposes, you may be unable to maintain your pro rata ownership in the Company. Future sales of common stock by existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by existing stockholders, or the perception that large sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or limit our future ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. 27 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions and state and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, supermajority voting approval for certain actions, limitation on large stockholders taking certain actions and authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone without obtaining stockholder approval. In addition, the BHCA and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with applicable federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either FRB approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to FRB and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Risks Relating to the Pending CBI Merger We may be not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the CBI Merger, including estimated cost savings and synergies, or it may take longer than anticipated to achieve such benefits. The realization of the benefits anticipated as a result of the CBI Merger, including cost savings and synergies, will depend in part on the integration of CBI’s operations with our operations. Hanmi Financial and CBI have operated and, until the consummation of the CBI Merger, will continue to operate independently. To realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings, after the completion of the CBI Merger, we expect to integrate CBI’s business into our own. There can be no assurance that CBI’s operations can be integrated successfully into our operations in a timely fashion, or at all. The dedication of management and other internal resources to such integration may divert attention from our day-to-day business, and there can be no assurance that there will not be substantial costs associated with the transition process or that there will not be other material adverse effects as a result of these integration efforts. Such effects, including, but not limited to, incurring unexpected costs or delays in connection with such integration, may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Required regulatory approvals may not be received, may take longer to receive than expected or may impose conditions that are materially burdensome or cannot be met. Before the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including both the CBI Merger and the Bank Merger, may be completed, various approvals must be obtained from our and the Bank’s regulatory authorities. The parties currently anticipate that the requisite applications will be submitted after the financial information for the first quarter of 2014 becomes available. Other approvals, waivers or consents from regulators may also be required. In determining whether to grant these approvals, the regulators consider a variety of factors, including the regulatory standing of the parties to the Merger Agreement. Poor regulatory standing or an adverse development in such standing or other factors could result in an inability to obtain approval or delay their receipt. UCB is the subject of a consent order by the Texas Department of Banking (the “TDB”) and the FDIC. CBI is party to a written agreement with the Federal Reserve and the banking commissioner of the TDB. Regulators may impose conditions on the completion of the CBI Merger or the Bank Merger which we may not be able to meet or require changes to the terms of the proposed merger. Such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the CBI Merger as currently contemplated or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the CBI Merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the completion of the CBI Merger. We will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the CBI Merger is pending. Uncertainty about the effect of the CBI Merger on employees, suppliers, vendors, and customers (including depositors and borrowers) may have an adverse effect on both Hanmi Financial and CBI. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain or motivate key personnel until the CBI Merger is completed and may cause customers and others that transact business with us or CBI to seek to change existing business relationships with either us and/or CBI. If key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the business, the combined company’s business following the CBI Merger may be negatively affected. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause suppliers, vendors, and customers (including depositors and borrowers) and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us or fail to extend an existing relationship with us. In addition, competitors may target our or CBI’s existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties that may result from the CBI Merger. In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts CBI from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions while the CBI Merger is pending, without the prior consent of Hanmi Financial. If the CBI Merger is not consummated, we will not benefit from the expenses incurred in pursuing it. The Merger Agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the CBI Merger. The conditions to the consummation of the CBI Merger may not be fulfilled and, accordingly, the CBI Merger may not be completed. In addition, if the CBI Merger is not completed by the Drop Dead Date, either Hanmi Financial or CBI may choose not to proceed with the CBI Merger, and the parties can mutually decide to terminate the Merger Agreement at any time. Hanmi Financial has incurred and will incur substantial expenses, including in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement as well as combining the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of CBI with ours. If the CBI Merger is not completed, we would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Although we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and combination expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of such 28 Table of Contents combination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. Due to these factors, the transaction and combination expenses associated with the CBI Merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the combination of the businesses following the consummation of the CBI Merger. As a result of these expenses, we expect to take charges against our earnings before and after the completion of the CBI Merger. The charges taken in connection with the CBI Merger are expected to be significant, although the aggregate amount and timing of such charges, including investment banking, legal and accounting fees and other related charges, are uncertain at present. Termination of the Merger Agreement may negatively affect us. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, we may suffer various adverse consequences, including: • our business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus of management on the CBI Merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of completing the CBI Merger; and • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the market price prior to termination reflects a market assumption that the CBI Merger will be completed, in each case, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the CBI Merger. For a detailed description of the CBI Merger, see the section captioned “Pending CBI Merger.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 29 Table of Contents 