Item 1A. Risk Factors Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks that may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also adversely impact our financial condition, business operations and results of operations. We may be subject to further regulatory action. On October 8, 2008, the members of the Board of Directors 20 Table of Contents (the “Board”) of the Bank entered into a MOU with the Regulators to address certain issues raised in the Bank’s most recent regulatory examination by the DFI on March 10, 2008. Certain of the issues to be addressed by management under the terms of the memorandum of understanding relate to the following, among others: (i) Board and senior management maintenance and succession planning; (ii) Board oversight and education; (iii) Board assessment and enhancement; (iv) loan policies and procedures; (v) allowance for loan losses policies and procedures; (vi) liquidity and funds management policies; (vii) strategic planning; (viii) capital maintenance, including a requirement that the Bank maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio and tangible stockholder’s equity to total tangible assets ratio of not less than 8.0 percent; and (ix) restrictions on the payment of dividends without the Regulators’ prior approval. In addition, Hanmi Financial has committed to the FRB that it will adopt a consolidated capital plan to augment and maintain a sufficient consolidated capital position. The Bank is required to regularly keep our Regulators informed of its progress in complying with the provisions of the MOU. If we fail to comply with the terms of the MOU or any other regulatory orders or agreements we have entered into, or the Regulators believe that further enforcement action against us is necessary, we may be subject to further requirements to take corrective action, face further regulation and intervention and additional constraints on our business operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business. Our operations may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available or may not be on terms acceptable to us when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. As part of the MOU we entered into, we agreed that the Bank would maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio and tangible stockholder’s equity to total tangible assets ratio of not less than 8.0 percent. We have also committed to the FRB to adopt a consolidated capital plan to augment and maintain a sufficient capital position. Our existing capital resources may not satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future and may not be sufficient to offset any problem assets. Further, should our asset quality erode and require significant additional provision for credit losses, resulting in consistent net operating losses at the Bank, our capital levels will decline and we will need to raise capital to maintain our well-capitalized status and satisfy our agreements with the Regulators. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot be certain of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to continue as a going concern could be materially impaired. Although both Hanmi Financial and the Bank met the requirements to be deemed well-capitalized at December 31, 2008, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be deemed well-capitalized. We have applied to participate in the TARP CPP for an investment of up to $105 million from the Treasury, but we are still waiting a final decision from the Treasury as to whether we will be able to participate in this program. If we cannot raise additional capital through the TARP CPP or other sources when needed, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we were to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional shares, our stock price could be adversely affected, depending on the terms of any shares we were to issue. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near 21 Table of Contents future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates, which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • Our liquidity could be negatively impacted by an inability to access the capital markets, unforeseen or extraordinary demands on cash, or regulatory restrictions, which could, among other things, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA and on February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the ARRA in response to the current crisis in the financial sector. The Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and the ARRA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA and the ARRA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital and credit or the value of our securities. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. As described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Recent Developments,” global capital markets and economic conditions continue to be adversely affected and the resulting disruption has been particularly acute in the financial sector. Although Hanmi Financial remains well capitalized, our capital ratios have been adversely affected and the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers realize the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. We have recently experienced significant changes in our key management. Our President and Chief Executive Officer joined us in June 2008, our Chief Financial Officer joined us in December 2007 and our Chief Credit Officer joined us in September 2008. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract key people who are qualified and have knowledge and experience in the banking industry in our markets and to retain those people to successfully implement our business objectives. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to maintain consistent personnel in management could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may be required to make additional provisions for credit losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and capital levels. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $75.7 million provision for credit losses and charged off $48.2 million in loans, net of $2.2 million in recoveries. There has been a general slowdown in the economy and in particular, in the housing market in areas of Southern California where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has 22 Table of Contents contributed to a financial strain on homebuilders and suppliers, as well as an overall decrease in the collateral value of real estate securing loans. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.2 billion in commercial real estate, construction and residential property loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential property and construction segment in particular could result in additional loan charge-offs and provisions for credit losses in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our net income and capital levels. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover anticipated losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. Brokered deposits may be difficult for us to retain or replace at attractive rates as they mature. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate financing is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. In addition, a depository institution that is not well capitalized is generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits “significantly higher” than the prevailing rate in its market. A depository institution that is adequately capitalized may accept brokered deposits if it obtains the prior approval of the FDIC. Changes in economic conditions could materially hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by changes in economic conditions, including finance, legislative and regulatory changes and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions could result in the following consequences: • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value. Our Southern California business focus and economic conditions in Southern California could adversely affect our operations. The Bank’s operations are located primarily in Los Angeles and Orange counties. Because of this geographic concentration, our results depend largely upon economic conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in the Bank’s market areas, or a significant natural or man-made disaster in these market areas, could have a material adverse effect on the quality of the Bank’s loan portfolio, the demand for its products and services and on its overall financial condition and results of operations. Our concentration in commercial real estate loans located primarily in Southern California could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank’s loan portfolio included commercial real estate and construction loans, primarily in Southern California, totaling $1,087.8 million, or 32.3 percent of total gross loans. Because of this concentration, a deterioration of the Southern California commercial real estate market could have adverse consequences for the Bank. Among the factors that could contribute to such a decline are general economic 23 Table of Contents conditions in Southern California, interest rates and local market construction and sales activity. Our concentration in commercial and industrial loans could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank’s loan portfolio included commercial and industrial loans, primarily in Southern California, totaling $2,099.7 million, or 62.4 percent of total gross loans. Because of this concentration, a deterioration of the Southern California economy could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, which could have adverse consequences for the Bank. Our concentrations of loans in certain industries could have adverse effects on credit quality. As of December 31, 2008, the Bank’s loan portfolio included loans to: 1) lessors of non-residential buildings totaling $450.2 million, or 13.4 percent of total gross loans; 2) borrowers in the accommodation industry totaling $444.9 million, or 13.2 percent of total gross loans; and 3) gas stations totaling $381.0 million, or 11.3 percent of total gross loans. Most of these loans are in Southern California. Because of these concentrations of loans in specific industries, a deterioration of the Southern California economy overall, and specifically within these industries, could affect the ability of borrowers, guarantors and related parties to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans, which could have adverse consequences for the Bank. If a significant number of borrowers, guarantors or related parties fail to perform as required by the terms of their loans, we could sustain losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors or related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have adopted underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that management believes are appropriate to limit this risk by assessing the likelihood of non-performance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our credit portfolio. These policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As described herein, the Bank substantially increased its provision for credit losses in 2008 and 2007, as compared to previous years, as a result of increases in historical loss factors, increased charge-offs and migration of more loans into more adverse risk categories. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean-up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. Our earnings are affected by changing interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the level of loans, deposits and investments, the credit profile of existing loans, the rates received on loans and securities and the rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Significant fluctuations in interest rates may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The current historically low interest rate environment resulted by the response to the financial market crisis and the global economic recession in 2008 may affect our operating earnings negatively. 24 Table of Contents We must manage our funding resources to enable us to meet our ongoing operations costs and our deposit and borrowing obligations as they come due. Liquidity is essential to our business and any inability to raise funds could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Sources of funds to meet our operating needs and obligations include deposits; interest and fee income on loans and other products and services; earnings on our investment securities portfolio; revenue from the sale or securitization of loans; new capital infusions and borrowings, such as from the FHLB. Adverse regulatory developments or a decline in our financial condition or a decline in financial market conditions generally, such as the recent turmoil faced by depository financial institutions in the domestic and worldwide credit markets, or a decline in the financial condition of the FHLB, could have a significant impact on our ability to meet our liquidity needs, including our ability to attract deposits in an increasingly competitive environment. We cannot forecast if or when market liquidity conditions will improve from current stresses, although it is our expectation that the existing turmoil in the financial and credit markets may continue to affect its performance at least throughout 2009. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short-term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to the Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. We are subject to government regulations that could limit or restrict our activities, which in turn could adversely affect our operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive federal and state supervision and regulation. Significant new laws, changes in existing laws, or repeals of existing laws may cause our results to differ materially. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions and a material change in these conditions could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition may adversely affect our performance. The banking and financial services businesses in our market areas are highly competitive. We face competition in attracting deposits, making loans, and attracting and retaining employees. The increasingly competitive environment is a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, new competitors in the market, and the pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our results in the future may differ depending upon the nature and level of competition. Hanmi Bank is currently restricted from paying dividends to Hanmi Financial and Hanmi Financial is restricted from paying dividends to stockholders and from making any payments on its trust preferred securities. The primary source of Hanmi Financial’s income from which we pay Hanmi Financial obligations and distribute dividends to our stockholders is from the receipt of dividends from the Bank. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. The Bank currently has deficit retained earnings and has suffered net losses in 2007 and 2008, largely caused by goodwill impairments. As a result, the California Financial Code does not provide authority for the Bank to declare a dividend to Hanmi Financial, with or without Commissioner approval. In addition, the Bank is prohibited from paying dividends to Hanmi Financial unless it receives prior regulatory approval. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Furthermore, Hanmi Financial has agreed that it will not pay any dividends or make any payments on our outstanding $82.4 million of trust preferred securities or any other capital distributions without the prior written consent of the FRB. We began to defer interest payment on our trust preferred securities commencing with the interest payment that was due on January 15, 2009. If we defer interest payments for more than 20 consecutive quarters under any of our outstanding trust preferred instruments, then we would be in default under such trust preferred arrangements and the amounts due under the agreements pursuant to which we issued our trust preferred securities would be immediately due and payable. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for a further discussion of restrictions on the Bank’s ability to pay dividends to Hanmi Financial. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of 25 Table of Contents technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Negative publicity could damage our reputation. Reputation risk, or the risk to our earnings and capital from negative publicity or public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative publicity or public opinion could adversely affect our ability to keep and attract customers and expose us to adverse legal and regulatory consequences. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or perceived conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, and disclosure, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely because of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional stockholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted legislative or regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors identified above in “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on 26 Table of Contents stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation and potential delisting from The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (“Nasdaq”). Anti-takeover provisions and state and federal law may limit the ability of another party to acquire us, which could cause our stock price to decline. Various provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things, a classified board of directors, supermajority voting approval for certain actions, limitation on large stockholders taking certain actions and the authorization to issue “blank check” preferred stock by action of the Board of Directors acting alone, thus without obtaining stockholder approval. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978, as amended, together with federal regulations, require that, depending on the particular circumstances, either FRB approval must be obtained or notice must be furnished to the FRB and not disapproved prior to any person or entity acquiring “control” of a state member bank, such as the Bank. These provisions may prevent a merger or acquisition that would be attractive to stockholders and could limit the price investors would be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. We may face other risks. From time to time, we detail other risks with respect to our business and/or financial results in our filings with the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 