ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses that, if continued, could adversely affect the market price of our securities and our ability to raise capital. We had net losses of approximately $50.1 million, $528.6 million and $43.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. If we cannot generate profits in the future, our failure to do so could adversely affect the market price of our securities, which in turn could adversely affect our ability to raise additional equity capital or to incur additional debt. If we require but cannot raise additional capital, we may have to reduce or curtail certain existing operations. We may require significant additional capital for general working capital and debt service needs. If our cash flow and existing working capital are not sufficient to fund our general working capital and debt service requirements, we will have to raise additional funds by selling equity, refinancing some or all of our existing debt or selling assets or subsidiaries. None of these alternatives for raising additional captial may be available on acceptable terms to us or in amounts sufficient for us to meet our requirements. In addition, our ability to raise additional funds and engage in acquisitions is limited by the terms of the amended credit facility agreement. Our failure to obtain any required new financing may, if needed, require us to reduce or curtail certain existing operations. Our substantial level of debt could limit our ability to grow and compete. As of December 31, 2009, we had $361.9 million of debt outstanding under our amended bank credit facility. A significant portion of our cash flow from operations is and will continue to be used to service our debt 25 Table of Contents obligations, and our ability to obtain additional financing is limited by the terms of our amended credit facility agreement. We may not have sufficient future cash flow to meet our debt payments, or we may not be able to refinance any of our debt at maturity. We have pledged substantially all of our assets to our lenders as collateral. Our lenders could proceed against the collateral to repay outstanding indebtedness if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations. If the amounts outstanding under our amended credit facility agreement are accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to such lenders. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, such as: • preventing us, under the terms of the amended credit facility agreement, from obtaining additional financing to grow our business and compete effectively; • limiting our ability, as a practical matter, to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy or other purposes; and • placing us at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors who have less debt. The amended credit facility agreement contains various covenants that limit management’s discretion in the operation of our business and could limit our ability to grow and compete. The amended credit facility agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains various provisions that limit our ability to: • incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends and make other distributions; • make investments, capital expenditures and other restricted payments; • create liens; • acquire or sell assets; • continue to repurchase our stock under our publicly-announced stock repurchase program, and otherwise, except in a limited circumstance; and • enter into certain transactions with affiliates. These provisions restrict our management’s ability to operate our business in accordance with management’s discretion and could limit our ability to do a number of things, including growing and competing effectively. Moreover, if we fail to comply with any of the financial covenants or ratios under our amended credit facility agreement, our lenders could: • elect to declare all amounts borrowed to be immediately due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest; and/or • terminate their commitments, if any, to make further extensions of credit. Any such action by our lenders would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We have recently experienced declining net revenue and net losses, primarily as a result of the current economic conditions. Were these conditions to continue for an extended period of time or worsen, our ability to comply with our amended credit facility agreement, including financial covenants and ratio, and continue to operate our business as it is presently conducted, could be jeopardized. We reported a net loss of $50.1 million and had positive cash flow from operations of $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally, as of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $912.7 million. If we were to experience continuing net losses and further declining net revenue, there could be an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including but not limited to our failure to comply with the financial covenants or ratios under our amended credit facility agreement. In addition, if events or circumstances occur such that we were not able to generate positive cash flow and operate our business as it is presently conducted, we may be required to obtain a further amendment to our amended credit facility agreement, seek a waiver from our banks if we are unable to comply with our financial covenants or ratios, refinance our existing debt, divest non-core assets or operations and/or obtain additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such transactions could be consummated on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Any default under our amended credit facility agreement, inability to renegotiate such agreement if required, obtain additional financing if needed, or obtain waivers for any failure to comply with financial covenants and ratios would have a material adverse effect on our overall business and financial condition. The current economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our industry, business, results of operations or financial position. The continuation or worsening of the current economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the fundamentals of our business, results of operations and/or financial position. These conditions could have a negative impact on our industry or the industry of those customers who advertise on our stations, including, among others, the services, telecommunications, automotive, fast food and restaurant, and retail industries, which provide a significant amount of our advertising revenue. There can be no assurance that we will not experience any further material adverse effect on our business as a result of the current economic conditions or that the actions of the United States Government, Federal Reserve or other governmental and regulatory bodies for the reported purpose of stabilizing the economy or financial markets will achieve their intended effect. Additionally, some of these actions may adversely affect financial institutions, capital providers, advertisers or other consumers or our financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. Potential consequences of the foregoing include: • the financial condition of companies that advertise on our stations, including, among others, those in the services, telecommunications, automotive, fast food and restaurant, and retail industries, which may file for bankruptcy protection or face severe cash flow issues, may result in a further significant decline in our advertising revenue; • our ability to borrow capital on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could limit our ability to refinance our existing debt; • our ability to pursue the acquisition or divestiture of television or radio assets may be limited, both as a result of these factors and, with respect to acquisitions, limitations contained in the amended credit facility agreement; • the possible further impairment of some or all of the value of our syndicated programming, goodwill and other intangible assets, including our broadcast licenses; and • the possibility that one or more of the lenders under our bank credit facility could refuse to fund its commitment to us or could fail, and we may not be able to replace the financing commitment of any such lenders on favorable terms, or at all. 27 Table of Contents The current economic conditions and difficulties in the global capital and credit markets have affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, as well as the industries of many of our customers, which are cyclical in nature. Some of the markets in which our advertisers participate, such as the services, telecommunications, automotive, fast food and restaurant, and retail industries, are cyclical in nature, thus posing a risk to us which is beyond our control. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with significant reductions in the availability and increases in the cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate and the profitability of our business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our key advertisers and other strategic business partners. These conditions have resulted in financial instability or other adverse effects at many of our advertisers and other strategic business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include the delay or cancellation of customer advertising orders, cancellation of our programming and termination of facilities that broadcast or re-broadcast our programming. The continuation of any of these conditions may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. During 2008 and 2009, as a result of the global financial crisis and recession, lenders and institutional investors reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers reducing the availability of liquidity and credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Although the markets have stabilized since early 2009, future disruption of the credit markets and/or sluggish economic growth in future periods could adversely affect our customers’ access to credit which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses and could result in advertising or broadcast cancellations or suspensions, payment delays or defaults by our customers. The current economic conditions and their impact on consumer and general business confidence could negatively affect the Company. Recent disruption in the financial markets has generally created increasingly difficult conditions for companies globally. Consumer confidence and business and consumer spending have deteriorated significantly, and could remain depressed for an extended period. Consumer purchases of advertising time has declined and may continue to decline during the current period and in future periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. The tightening of credit in financial markets also adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for advertising purchases. Adverse general economic conditions may cause potential customers to defer or forgo the purchase of advertising time. Moreover, insolvencies associated with the current or future economic downturns could adversely affect our business through the loss of carriers, clients or by hampering our ability to sell advertising or generate retransmission consent revenue. Further, reduced levels of staffing due to further layoffs could also have a negative impact on our business by spreading our personnel resources too thinly and not being able to cover all of our customer markets as effectively as in previous periods. If our earnings continue to decrease in future periods, it is possible that we would fail to comply with the terms of our amended credit facility agreement, which would have a significant adverse effect on the Company. Current uncertain and volatile economic conditions may affect our financial performance or our ability to forecast our business with accuracy. Our operations and performance depend significantly on U.S. and, to a lesser extent, international economic conditions and their impact on purchases of advertising by our customers. As a result of the global financial crisis, which was experienced on a broad and extensive scope and scale, and the recession in the United States, general economic conditions deteriorated significantly throughout 2008 and most of 2009, and may continue to deteriorate or remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Throughout 2009, we experienced a significant slowing of customer demand for advertising commitments in both our television and radio segments. Excluding World Cup, political activity and the census, we currently expect to experience relatively flat demand for advertising during at least 2010 and possibly beyond, as our customers alter their purchasing activities in response to this 28 Table of Contents new economic reality, and, among other things, our customers may change or scale back future purchases of advertising. This uncertainty and volatility may affect our ability to prepare accurate financial forecasts or meet specific forecasted results. It is currently unclear as to what overall effect the current economic conditions and uncertainties will continue to have on the marketplace and our future business. If we are unable to adequately respond to or forecast further changes in demand for advertising if current economic conditions persist or continue to deteriorate, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of intangible assets, investments, income taxes, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, reserves, litigation and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time we make those assumptions, based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from our estimated results. Additionally, changes in accounting standards, assumptions or estimates may have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our advertising revenue can vary substantially from period to period based on many factors beyond our control. This volatility affects our operating results and may reduce our ability to repay indebtedness or reduce the market value of our securities. We rely on sales of advertising time for most of our revenues and, as a result, our operating results are sensitive to the amount of advertising revenue we generate. If we generate less revenue, it may be more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and the value of our business may decline. Our ability to sell advertising time depends on: • the levels of advertising, which can fluctuate between and among industry groups and in general, based on industry and general economic conditions; • the health of the economy in the area where our television and radio stations are located and in the nation as a whole; • the popularity of our programming and that of our competition; • changes in the makeup of the population in the areas where our stations are located; • the activities of our competitors, including increased competition from other forms of advertising-based mediums, such as other broadcast television stations, radio stations, MVPDs and internet and broadband content providers serving in the same markets; and • other factors that may be beyond our control. The terms of any additional equity or convertible debt financing could contain terms that are superior to the rights of our existing security holders. Depending upon our future results of operations, ability to further reduce costs as necessary and comply with our financing agreements, including financial covenants and ratios, we may require additional equity or debt financing. If future funds are raised through issuance of stock or convertible debt, these securities could have rights, privileges or preference senior to those of common stock. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities could also result in dilution to our current shareholders. There can be no assurance that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms satisfactory to us or at all. 29 Table of Contents Any failure to maintain our FCC broadcast licenses could cause a default under our syndicated bank credit facility and cause an acceleration of our indebtedness. Our syndicated bank credit facility requires us to maintain our FCC licenses. If the FCC were to revoke any of our material licenses, our lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under the syndicated bank credit facility to be immediately due and payable. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the amounts owed. Cancellations or reductions of advertising could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not obtain long-term commitments from our advertisers, and advertisers may cancel, reduce or postpone orders without penalty. We have experienced cancellations, reductions or delays in purchases of advertising from time to time in the past and more regularly during the global financial crisis and recession. These have affected, and could continue to affect, our revenue and results of operations, especially if we are unable to replace such advertising purchases. Many of our expenses are based, at least in part, on our expectations of future revenue and are therefore relatively fixed once budgeted. Therefore, weakness in advertising sales would adversely impact both our revenue and our results of operations. Retransmission consent revenue may not continue to grow at recent rates over the long term. While we expect the amount of revenues generated from our retransmission consent agreements to continue to grow over the next fiscal year and beyond, the rate of growth of these revenues may not continue at the current rate. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. We have recently recorded impairments of our television and radio assets. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $321 million and $375 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily attributable to acquisitions in recent years. At the date of these acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired goodwill and intangible assets equaled its book value. At least annually, we test our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in our performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products or services sold by our businesses and a variety of other factors. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we determined that the carrying values of certain radio FCC licenses exceeded their fair values and we recognized an impairment charge of $48 million. Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are tested annually on October 1 for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that our assets might be impaired. Such circumstances may include, among other things, a further significant decrease in our revenues, decrease in prevailing broadcast transaction multiples, deterioration in broadcasting industry revenues, adverse market conditions, and a further significant decrease in our market capitalization. Appraisals of any of our reporting units or changes in estimates of our future cash flows could affect our impairment analysis in future periods and cause us to record either an additional expense for impairment of assets previously determined to be impaired or record an expense for impairment of other assets. Depending on future circumstances, we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any determination of impairment of our goodwill or other intangibles could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Univision’s ownership of our Class U common stock may make some transactions difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support. Univision is the holder of all of our issued and outstanding Class U common stock. Although the Class U common stock has limited voting rights and does not include the right to elect directors, Univision does have the 30 Table of Contents right to approve any merger, consolidation or other business combination involving our company, any dissolution of our company and any assignment of the FCC licenses for any of our Univision-affiliated television stations. Univision’s ownership interest may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without Univision’s support. Our television ratings, revenue, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects could decline significantly if our affiliation relationship with Univision or Univision’s programming success changes in an adverse manner. If our affiliation or other contractual relationships with Univision change in an adverse manner, or if Univision’s programming success diminishes or its financial condition is adversely affected by the current economic environment, or otherwise, our ability to generate television advertising revenue on which our television business depends could be negatively affected. Univision’s ratings might decline or Univision might not continue to provide programming, marketing, available advertising time and other support to its affiliates on the same basis as currently provided. If Univision were to stop providing programming to us for any reason, and we were unable to obtain replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, by aligning ourselves closely with Univision, we might forego other opportunities that could diversify our television programming and avoid dependence on Univision’s television networks. Univision’s relationships with Televisa and Venevision are important to Univision’s, and consequently our, continued success. If Televisa were to stop providing programming to Univision for any reason, and Univision were unable to provide us with replacement programming of comparable quality, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because three of our directors and officers, and stockholders affiliated with them, hold the majority of our voting power, they can ensure the outcome of most matters on which our stockholders vote. As of December 31, 2009, Walter F. Ulloa, Philip C. Wilkinson and Paul Zevnik together hold approximately 84% of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. Each of Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik is a member of our board of directors, and Messrs. Ulloa and Wilkinson also serve as executive officers of our company. In addition to their shares of our Class A common stock, collectively they own all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, which have ten votes per share on any matter subject to a vote of the stockholders. Accordingly, Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have the ability to elect each of the members of our board of directors. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik have agreed contractually to vote their shares to elect themselves as directors of our company. Messrs. Ulloa, Wilkinson and Zevnik, acting in concert, also have the ability to control the outcome of most matters requiring stockholder approval. This control may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of our company, such as a merger or sale of the company. Stockholders who desire to change control of our company may be prevented from doing so by provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the amended credit facility agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility. In addition, other agreements contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation could diminish the opportunities for a stockholder to participate in tender offers. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue preferred stock on terms that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. The issuance of preferred stock could also negatively affect the voting power of holders of our common stock. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of discouraging or preventing an acquisition or sale of our business. In addition, the amended credit agreement governing our syndicated bank credit facility contains limitations on our ability to enter into a change of control transaction. Under this agreement, the occurrence of a change of 31 Table of Contents control, in some cases after notice and grace periods, would constitute an event of default permitting acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness. Displacement of any of our low-power television stations could cause our ratings and revenue for any such station to decrease. A significant portion of our television stations is licensed by the FCC for low-power service only. Our low-power television stations operate with less power and coverage than our full-power stations. The FCC rules under which we operate provide that low-power television stations are treated as a secondary service. If any or all of our low-power stations are found to cause interference to full-power stations, we would be required to eliminate the interference or terminate service. In a few urban markets where we operate, including Washington, D.C. and San Diego, there are a limited number of alternative channels to which our low-power television stations can migrate. If we are unable to move the signals of our low-power television stations to replacement channels to the extent legally required, or such channels do not permit us to maintain the same level of service, we may be unable to maintain the viewership these stations currently have, which could harm our ratings and advertising revenue or, in the worst case, cause us to discontinue operations at these low-power television stations. Because our full-service television stations rely on “retransmission consent” rights to obtain cable carriage, new laws or regulations that eliminate or limit the scope of our cable carriage rights could have a material adverse impact on our television operations. We no longer rely on “must carry” rights to obtain the retransmission of our full-service television stations on MVPDs. New laws or regulations could affect retransmission consent rights and the negotiating process between broadcasters and MVPDs. Our low-power television stations do not have cable “must carry” rights. Some of our low-power television stations are carried on cable systems as they provide broadcast programming the cable systems desire and are part of the retransmission consent agreements we are party to. Where MVPDs are not contractually required to carry our low-power stations, we may face future uncertainty with respect to the availability of cable carriage for our low-power stations. Carriage of our signals on direct broadcast satellite services is subject to direct broadcast satellite companies providing local broadcast signals in the television markets we serve and our decision as to the terms upon which our signals will be carried. The Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of 1999, or SHVIA, allowed DBS television companies, which are currently DirecTV and EchoStar/Dish Network, for the first time to transmit local broadcast television station signals back to their subscribers in local markets. In exchange for this privilege, however, SHVIA required that in television markets in which a DBS company elects to pick up and retransmit any local broadcast station signals, the DBS provider must also offer to its subscribers signals from all other qualified local broadcast television stations in that market. Our broadcast television stations in markets for which DBS operators have elected to carry local stations have sought to qualify for carriage under this “carry one/carry all” rule. SHVIA expired in 2004 and Congress adopted the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, or SHVERA, which expired in 2009. SHVERA has been extended until early 2010 and it is expected that a five-year extension of it will be enacted in early 2010. The SHVERA legislation extended the “carry one/carry all” rule. In that we have decided to secure our carriage on DBS through retransmission consent agreements, the “carry one/carry all” rule no longer is relevant to us. 32 Table of Contents Changes in the FCC’s ownership rules could lead to increased market power for our competitors. On June 2, 2003, the FCC revised its national ownership policy, modified television and cross-ownership restrictions, and changed its methodology for defining radio markets. Ultimately, the only rules that were adopted were those dealing with the determination of the number of local radio stations in local radio markets and loosening the limitations on newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership. Congress has also indicated its concern over the FCC’s new rules and legislation has been considered to restrict the changes. The FCC has commenced a further review of its ownership policies for the broadcast medium. To date, however, only a reduction in the nationwide television cap, to 39% of the viewing public, has been the subject of federal legislation. Accordingly, the impact of changes in the FCC’s restrictions on how many stations a party may own, operate and/or control and on our future acquisitions and competition from other companies is limited, but, in connection with local radio ownership and newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership, could result in our competitors’ (including newspaper owners’) ability to increase their presence in the markets in which we operate. We rely on over-the-air spectrum which might be taken away. Our television business operates through over-the-air transmission of broadcast signals. These transmissions are authorized under licenses issued to our stations by the FCC. The current electromagnetic spectrum is finite and certain parts of the spectrum are better than others owing to the ability of electromagnetic signals to penetrate buildings. This is the portion of the spectrum where broadcast stations operate. With the advent of mobile wireless communications and its use not only for voice but for broadband distribution, the need for spectrum has grown. The FCC is currently engaged in developing a national broadcast plan. It is expected that such a plan will call for an increase in the amount of spectrum available for use by wireless broadband services. Available sources of such spectrum are limited and one obvious source is the spectrum allotted for broadcasting. There are significant political, legal and technical issues to overcome before broadcasters lose their spectrum. However, the loss of spectrum would have a significant impact on our television business. Whether such a loss would be overcome with carriage rights on other equipment are matters that would have to be resolved. Available Information We make available free of charge on our corporate website, www.entravision.com, the following reports, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC: • our annual report on Form 10-K; • our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; and • our current reports on Form 8-K. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated by reference into this or any other filing we make with the SEC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 33 Table of Contents 