ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we are faced with. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks of dependence on one strategic partner. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of server appliances directly to EMC and our revenues may decline significantly if this customer cancels or delays purchases of our products, terminates its relationship with us, or exercises certain of its contractual rights. In the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, sales directly to EMC, our largest customer, accounted for 81% and 79% of our total net revenues. Primarily all of these sales are attributable to one product pursuant to a non-exclusive contract. In addition, during September 2006 EMC acquired Network Intelligence, Inc., one of our other sizeable customers, and as a result, the concentration of our sales with EMC will increase in the near term . Our concentration of revenues with EMC would also increase in the future in the event of further acquisitions of existing customers by EMC. We anticipate that our future operating results will continue to depend heavily on sales to, and our relationship with, this customer. Accordingly, the success of our business will depend, in large part, on this customer’s willingness to continue to utilize our server appliance solutions in its existing and future products. Further, our financial success is dependent upon the future success of the products we sell to this customer and the continued growth, viability and financial stability of this customer, whose industry has experienced rapid technological change, short product life cycles, consolidation and pricing and margin pressures. A significant reduction in sales to this customer, or significant pricing and additional margin pressures exerted on us by this customer, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if this customer delays or cancels purchases of our products, our operating results would be harmed and our ability to accurately predict revenues, profitability and cash flows would decrease. 11 Under the terms of our non-exclusive contract, this customer has the right to enter into agreements with third parties for similar products, is not obligated to purchase any minimum quantity of products from us and may choose to stop purchasing from us at any time, with or without cause. In addition, this customer may terminate the agreement in the event that we attempt to assign our rights under the agreement to another party without this customer’s prior approval. Furthermore, in the event that we default on certain portions of the agreement, this customer has the right to manufacture certain products in exchange for a mutually agreeable royalty fee. If any of these events were to occur, or if this customer were to delay or discontinue purchases of our products as a result of dissatisfaction or otherwise, our revenues and operating results would be materially adversely affected and our reputation in the industry might suffer and our ability to accurately predict revenues, profitability and cash flows would decrease. Risks related to business strategy. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to generate significant revenues from server appliance development relationships. We believe we must diversify our revenues and a major component of our business strategy is to form server appliance development relationships with new network equipment providers, ISVs, and systems integrators. Under this strategy, we work with our customers to develop a server appliance, branded with their name. Our partner then performs all of the selling and marketing efforts related to sales of their branded appliance. There are multiple risks associated with this strategy including: · the expenditure of significant product development costs, which if not recovered through server appliance sales could negatively affect our operating results; · a significant reliance on our customers’ application software products, which could be technologically inferior to competitive products and result in limitations on our server appliance sales, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer; · our customers will most likely continue selling their software products as separate products in addition to selling it in the form of a server appliance, which will require us to effectively communicate the benefits of delivering their software in the form of a server appliance; · our reliance on our customers to perform all of the selling and marketing efforts associated with further sales of the server appliance product we develop with them; · continued consolidation within the network equipment and software industries that results in existing customers being acquired by other companies, and · our ability to provide our customers with high quality server appliances at competitive prices. Additionally, our future success will depend on our ability to establish relationships with new customers, as well as expanding sales of server appliances to our existing customers. If these customers are unsuccessful in their marketing and sales efforts, or if we are unable to expand our sales to existing customers and develop relationships with new customers, our revenues and operating results could suffer. Market acceptance and demand of Microsoft’s ISA Server software will depend on Microsoft’s decision to prioritize and concentrate its marketing efforts for this software, and on the success of Microsoft’s ISA Server software. Because certain of our server appliance solutions utilize Microsoft’s ISA Server, our success with these solutions will depend on the extent the marketplace perceives this software as superior to other forms of VPN, firewalling, caching, and security protection. We believe this perception will be determined substantially as a result of marketing efforts undertaken by Microsoft directly. In order to achieve broad 12 recognition that ISA Server provides these features better than other competing products, we will rely to a significant extent on Microsoft’s financial and technical resources to educate the marketplace. If Microsoft does not prioritize these marketing and promotional campaigns, or delays the timing of such programs, then we may not achieve significant sales of our Microsoft ISA Server based server appliance solutions, including our managed branch appliances, which may adversely affect our business. Even if Microsoft’s ISA Server software is widely accepted, customers may choose to purchase ISA Server in the form of software instead of a server appliance. Although many network security applications are sold in the form of an appliance to allow for better deployment, management and security, Microsoft could continue to sell and/or customers may elect to purchase ISA Server in the form of software only or may choose to purchase appliances from other vendors. In this event, sales of our Microsoft ISA Server based server appliance solutions will be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively leverage our relationship with Microsoft to establish new relationships with independent software vendors and other systems integrators our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. In order for our offering of Microsoft ISA based server appliance solutions to be successful we believe we must establish relationships with independent software vendors whose applications would also benefit from the advantages of ISA Server in the form of an appliance, and systems integrators that currently have significant sales and marketing resources. To date, we have engaged with a limited number of ISVs and systems integrators, and Microsoft has been instrumental in our entering these relationships. As such, we believe that building other relationships with ISVs and systems integrators will continue to depend, in part, on our relationship with Microsoft, and our ability to leverage that relationship to gain access to quality systems integrators, as well as other independent software vendors in order sell ISA Server based appliances including our managed branch appliance to them. Therefore, we will need to further establish and strengthen our relationship with Microsoft in order to be considered a preferred provider of ISA Server in the form of an appliance. If we fail to strengthen our relationship with Microsoft and to enter into partnerships with key systems integrators and independent software vendors, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. We may not be able to effectively commercialize our appliances if we cannot continue to license or integrate third-party applications that are essential for the functionality of these appliances. We believe our success will significantly depend on our ability to license or integrate certain applications from additional third-parties that would be incorporated in our server appliance solutions. Because we do not currently know with certainty which of these prospective technologies will be desired in the marketplace, we may incorrectly invest in development or prioritize our efforts to integrate these technologies in our appliances. Additionally, even if we correctly focus our efforts, there can be no assurance that we will select the preferred provider of these technologies, or that the third-party provider will be committed to the relationship and integration of their technology or that we will be able to integrate these technologies in a timely manner. If we are unable to successfully integrate these third-party technologies in a timely manner, our appliances may be inferior with other competitive products in the marketplace, which may adversely affect the results of our operations and our ability to grow our business. We also believe our success will depend on our continued ability to license or integrate technology from Microsoft that is essential for the functionality of certain of our appliances. A material adverse change in our relationship with Microsoft or the functionality of its software would have a significant adverse result on our operations. We depend on Microsoft to deliver reliable, high-quality software, develop new software on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond to evolving technology and changes in industry standards. Further, if Microsoft does not continue to make ISA Server available to OEM customers on a favorable basis, our ability to sell our appliances may be substantially reduced. 13 If we are unable to grow our international revenues and successfully overcome the risks inherent in international business activities, the growth of our business may be limited. Our ability to grow will depend in part on the growth of our international revenues. If our server appliance solutions are not accepted across this region, our ability to increase our revenues in this region would be limited. In addition, our international sales are subject to the risks inherent in international business activities, including: · cost of customizing products for foreign countries; · export and import restrictions, such as those affecting encryption commodities and software or those requiring local content; · difficulties in providing customer support; · reduced protection of intellectual property rights and increased liability exposure; · regional economic and political conditions; and · unique product requirements of certain foreign countries which may limit sales and/or require significant additional research and development investments. The majority of our international sales currently are U.S. dollar-denominated. As a result, any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies makes our products less competitive in international markets. Because of this our revenues may be adversely affected, or we may be required to denominate more of our sales in foreign currencies at some point in the future to remain competitive. In addition, because certain of our operating expenses related to our international sales are denominated in foreign currency, we may have difficulty controlling expenses in the event of significant currency fluctuations. Our business could be harmed if we fail to adequately integrate new technologies into our server appliance products or if we invest in technologies that do not result in the desired effects on our current and/or future product offerings. As part of our strategy, we review opportunities to incorporate products and technologies that could be required in order to add new customers, retain existing customers, expand the breadth of product offerings or enhance our technical capabilities. Investing in new technologies presents numerous risks, including: · we may experience difficulties integrating new technologies into our current or future products; · our new products may be delayed because selected new technologies themselves are delayed or have defects and/or performance limitations; · we may incorporate technologies that do not result in the desired improvements to our current and/or future server appliance products; · we may incorporate new technologies that either may not be desired by our customers or may not be compatible with our customer’s existing technology; · new technologies are unproven and could contain latent defects, which could result in high product failures; and · we could find that the new products and/or technologies that we choose to incorporate into our products are technologically inferior to those utilized by our competitors. 14 If we are unable to adequately integrate new technologies into our server appliance products or if we invest in technologies that do not result in the desired effects on our current and/or future product offerings, our business could be harmed and operating results could suffer. Risks related to the server appliance, data storage and network security markets. If server appliances are not increasingly adopted as a solution to meet a significant portion of companies’ network security and data storage application needs, the market for server appliances may not grow, which could negatively impact our revenues. We expect that all of our future revenues will come from sales of server appliances and related maintenance. As a result, we are substantially dependent on the growing use of server appliances to meet businesses’ data storage and network security application needs. Our revenues may not grow and the market price of our common stock could decline if the server appliance market does not grow as rapidly as we expect. Our expectations for the growth of the server appliance market may not be fulfilled if customers continue to use general-purpose servers. The role of our products could, for example, be limited if general-purpose servers out-perform server appliances, provide more capabilities and/or flexibility than server appliances or are offered at a lower cost. This could force us to lower the prices of our server appliance products or could result in fewer sales of these products, which would negatively impact our revenues and decrease our gross profits. The products that we sell are subject to rapid technological change and our sales will suffer if these products are rendered obsolete by new technologies. The markets we serve are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, potentially short product life cycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. In the server appliance market, we attempt to mitigate these risks by utilizing standards-based hardware platforms and by maintaining an adequate knowledge base of available technologies. However, the server appliance products that we sell could be rendered obsolete if products based on new technologies are introduced or new industry standards emerge and we are not able to incorporate these technological changes into our products. In addition, we depend on third parties for the base platforms of our server appliances and we are at risk if these third parties do not integrate new technologies. Releasing new products and services prematurely may result in quality problems, and delays may result in loss of customer confidence and market share. We may be unable to develop new products and services or achieve and maintain market acceptance of them once they have come to market. Furthermore, when we do introduce new or enhanced products and services, we may be unable to manage the transition from the older products and services to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excessive inventories of older products and deliver enough new products and services to meet customer demand. To remain competitive in the server appliance market, we must successfully identify new product opportunities and partners and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to select the appropriate partners and keep pace with rapid industry, technological or market changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Risks related to financial results. We have a history of losses and may continue to experience losses in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses and could continue to incur net losses in the future. At September 30, 2006 and 2005 our accumulated deficit was $132 million and $126 million, respectively. We believe that any future growth will require us to incur significant engineering, selling and marketing and administrative expenses. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. If we do not achieve and sustain profitability, the market price for our common stock may decline. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements, including those related to: · revenue recognition, · inventory write-downs; · stock-based compensation; and · warranty reserves. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these and other estimates if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate seasonally, which could result in decreased revenue from quarter to quarter, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Seasonal fluctuations in revenues and operating results in the data storage industry are common. In particular, this industry typically experiences increased orders and resulting revenues in the quarter ended December 31, and a subsequent decline in orders and resulting revenues during the quarter ended March 31. With a substantial amount of our revenues currently derived from data storage products, we may experience significant quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results due to customers timing their orders based on their own quarterly financial and/or operational considerations, which we have no influence over. In addition, to the extent that revenues from international sales become significant, we may experience seasonal fluctuations during the quarter ended September 30, as a result of European holiday patterns. 16 Accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Nonetheless, the market price of our common stock could decline in response to these variations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may also fluctuate for reasons other than seasonality, which could cause our operating results to fall below expectations and thus impact the market price of our common stock. In addition to seasonality issues, our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. None of our customers are obligated to purchase any quantity of our products in the future nor are they obligated to meet forecasts of their product needs. Our operating expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues and gross profits, which are partially dependent on our customers’ ability to accurately forecast and communicate their future product needs. If revenues or gross profits in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, operating results could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. Factors affecting quarterly operating results include: · the timing and size of orders from customers, particularly our largest customers; · the product mix of our sales; · the timing of new product introductions by our OEM customers; · the availability and/or price of products from suppliers; · the loss of key suppliers or customers; · price competition; · costs associated with our introduction of new server appliances and the market acceptance of those products; · the mix of product manufactured internally and by our contract manufacturer; If the products and services that we sell become more commoditized and competition in the server appliance, data storage and network security markets continues to increase, then our gross profit as a percentage of net revenues may decrease and our operating results may suffer. Products and services in the server appliance, data storage and network security markets may be subject to further commoditization as these industries continue to mature and other businesses introduce additional competing products and services. The gross profit as a percentage of revenues of our products may decrease, in response to changes in our product mix, competitive pricing pressures, or new product introductions into the server appliance, data storage and network security markets. If we are unable to offset decreases in our gross profits as a percentage of revenues by increasing our sales volumes, or by decreasing our product costs, operating results will decline. Changes in the mix of sales of our products, including the mix of higher margin sales of products sold in smaller quantities and lower margin sales of products sold in larger quantities, could adversely affect our operating results for future quarters. To maintain our gross profits, we also must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our server appliance products. Our efforts to produce higher margin server appliance products, continue to improve our server appliance products and produce new server appliance products may make it difficult to reduce our manufacturing cost per product. Further, utilization of a contract manufacturer to produce a portion of our customer requirements for certain of our server appliance products may not allow us to reduce our cost per product. If we fail to respond adequately to pricing pressures, to competitive products with improved performance or to developments with respect to the other factors on which we compete, we could lose customers or orders. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business will suffer. 17 Risks related to competition. Competition in the server appliance market is significant and if we fail to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. In the server appliance market, we face significant competition from a number of different types of companies. Our competitors include companies who market general-purpose servers, server virtualization software, specific-purpose servers and server appliances as well as companies that sell custom integration services utilizing hardware produced by other companies. Many of these companies are larger than we are and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do, as well as significant distribution capabilities and larger, more established service organizations to support their products. Our larger competitors may be able to leverage their existing resources, including their extensive distribution capabilities and service organizations, to provide a wider offering of products and services and higher levels of support on a more cost-effective basis than we can. We expect competition in the server appliance market to increase significantly as more companies enter the market and as our existing competitors continue to improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products and technologies. Such increased competition could adversely affect sales of our current and future products. In addition, competing companies may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive terms to their customers than we can. If our competitors provide lower cost products with greater functionality or support than our server appliance solutions, or if some of their products are comparable to ours and are offered as part of a range of products that is broader than ours, our server appliance solutions could become undesirable. Even if the functionality of competing products is equivalent to ours, we face a risk that a significant number of customers would elect to pay a premium for similar functionality from an established vendor rather than purchase products from a less-established vendor. We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competition by offering a wide variety of software integration, branding, supply-chain management, engineering, support, logistics and fulfillment services. If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competition, we may be forced to offer price reductions to maintain certain customers. As a result, our revenues may not increase and may decline, and our gross margins may decline. Furthermore, increased competition could lead to higher selling expenses which would negatively affect our business and future operating results. Risks related to marketing and sales efforts and customer service. We need to effectively manage our sales and marketing operations to increase market awareness and sales of our products and to promote our brand recognition. If we fail to do so, our growth will be limited. Although we currently have a relatively small sales and marketing organization, we must continue to increase market awareness and sales of our products and promote our brand in the marketplace. We believe that to compete successfully we will need network equipment providers, ISVs and systems integrators to recognize Network Engines as a top-tier provider of server appliance platforms and custom integration services. If we are unable to increase market awareness and promote ourselves as a leading provider of server appliance solutions with our available resources, we may be unable to develop new customer relationships or expand our product and service offerings at existing customers. If we are unable to effectively manage our customer service and support activities, we may not be able to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. We need to effectively manage our customer support operations to ensure that we maintain good relationships with our customers. Because our Microsoft ISA Server based appliances provide critical services for certain applications, managing software updates to the appliance, when and if they are available, will be essential to the performance of the appliance. In addition, as we integrate more third 18 party software applications our appliances will become increasingly complex to maintain and support. As a result, managing any updates released by Microsoft, or the third party software vendor will require careful consideration to determine the sensitivity and impact on the function of our appliance. Additionally, any updates designated as vital to the function of our appliance will require rapid deployment to ensure the customers’ applications are properly maintained. We expect that providing this increased customer service for our appliances will require more technically qualified staff either within the Company or from third parties, which could be more costly and if we are unable to provide this higher level of service we may be unable to successfully sell our appliances. Our customers in some cases will provide support for the end-user customers. We may be unable to provide these customers with the necessary training and back-up support. Therefore they may be unable to provide end-user customers with the necessary level of support, which may be detrimental to our reputation and ability to sell our products. If our customer support organization is unsuccessful in maintaining good customer relationships, we may lose customers to our competitors and our reputation in the market could be damaged. As a result, we may lose revenues and our business could suffer. Furthermore, the costs of this service could be higher than we expect, which could adversely affect our operating results. Risks related to product manufacturing. Our dependence on sole source and limited source suppliers for key server appliance components makes us susceptible to supply shortages and potential quality issues that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and could result in lost sales and customers. We depend upon single source and limited source suppliers for our industry-standard processors, main logic boards, certain disk drives, hardware platforms and power supplies as well as certain of our cooling systems, chassis and sheet metal parts. Additionally, we depend on limited sources to supply certain other industry-standard and customized components. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of or difficulties in acquiring components in the quantities and of the quality needed to produce our server appliance products. Shortages in supply or quality issues related to these key components for an extended time would cause delays in the production of our server appliance products, prevent us from satisfying our contractual obligations and meeting customer expectations, and result in lost sales and customers. If we are unable to buy components in the quantities and of the quality that we need on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, we will not be able to manufacture and deliver our server appliance products on a timely or cost-effective basis to our customers, and our competitive position, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If our server appliance products fail to perform properly and conform to specifications, our customers may demand refunds, assert claims for damages or terminate existing relationships with us and our reputation and operating results may suffer materially. Because server appliance solutions are complex, they could contain errors that can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle. If flaws in design, production, assembly or testing of our products (by us or our suppliers) were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our products that could result in substantial repair, replacement or service costs and potential damage to our reputation. In addition, because our solutions are combined with products from other vendors, should problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, control of material and manufacturing quality and costs, and product testing are critical factors in our future growth. There can be no assurance that our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes for our products will be sufficient to permit us to avoid a rate of failure in our products that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or 19 replacement costs or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the past, we have discovered errors in some of our server appliance solutions and have experienced delays in the shipment of our server appliance products during the period required to correct these errors or we have had to replace defective products that were already shipped. Errors in our server appliance solutions may be found in the future and any of these errors could be significant. Significant errors, including those discussed above, may result in: · the loss of or delay in market acceptance and sales of our server appliance products; · diversion of engineering resources; · increased manufacturing costs; · the loss of new or existing server appliance customers; · injury to our reputation and other customer relations problems; and · increased maintenance and warranty costs. Any of these problems could harm our business and future operating results. Product errors or delays could be material, including any product errors or delays associated with the introduction of new products or versions of existing products. If our server appliance solutions fail to conform to warranted specifications, customers could demand a refund for the purchase price and assert claims for damages. Moreover, because our server appliance solutions may be used in connection with critical computing systems services, including providing security to protect valuable information, we may receive significant liability claims if they do not work properly. While our agreements with customers typically contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to liability claims, these limitations do not preclude all potential claims. Liability claims could exceed our insurance coverage and require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any claims for damages, even if unsuccessful, could seriously damage our reputation and business. Our future server appliance revenue growth may be limited by our ability to expand production capacity. Our existing manufacturing facility is limited in its production capacity. For us to achieve significant server appliance revenue growth our server appliance sales volumes must increase significantly and our production capacity must increase to support such sales volumes. To supplement our current production capacity, to provide for increased capacity for “production spikes” and to provide disaster backup capabilities, we currently utilize the services of a contract manufacturer for certain server appliance products on a limited basis. However, our contract manufacturer is not obligated to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in an accepted purchase order. Using a contract manufacturer increases our cost of producing server appliance products and could decrease our gross profits. In the event that we need to change contract manufacturers or require significantly increased production levels, we could experience transitional difficulties, including production delays and quality control issues, that could prevent us from satisfying our production requirements on a timely basis, cause customer relationships to suffer and result in lost sales. Also, the use of a contract manufacturer does not guarantee us production levels, manufacturing line space or manufacturing prices, the lack of which could interrupt our business operations and have a negative effect on operating results. In the past, we expanded our internal production capacity through expansion and reorganization of our current production facilities. Although we believe that our current facility, along with our use of a contract manufacturer to supplement production, is sufficient to support our business for the foreseeable 20 future, we may need additional production capacity. We believe that we could expand production levels in our existing facility by increasing the number of manufacturing shifts, but we are currently utilizing all available manufacturing space in our existing facility and have limited opportunity to expand further. We would have difficulties expanding this facility beyond this limited ability, and therefore, significant further expansion of the production capacity would require additional facilities. Expansion of our existing facilities or additional facilities could require substantial investments, which could detract from our ability to invest in other areas of our business and may not result in the desired return on investment, which could negatively affect our operating results. If we do not accurately forecast our server appliance materials requirements, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our server appliance component requirements. Lead times for materials and components that we order vary significantly, depending among other things, on specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for those components. In addition, a variety of factors, including the timing of product releases, potential delays or cancellations of orders, the timing of large orders, and the unproven acceptance of new products in the market make it difficult to predict product orders. As a result, our materials requirement forecasts may not be accurate. If we overestimate our materials requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase costs and negatively impact our cash position. Our agreements with certain customers provide us with protections related to inventory purchased in accordance with the terms of these agreements; however, these protections may not be sufficient to prevent certain losses as a result of excess or obsolete inventory. If we underestimate our materials requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our server appliance products to customers resulting in a loss of sales or customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our business and operating results. Risks related to product dependence on intellectual property. Our reliance upon contractual provisions, domestic patent, copyright and trade secret laws and applied-for patents to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property. Certain of our server appliance solutions are differentiated from the products of our competitors by our internally developed software and hardware and the manner in which they are integrated into our server appliance solutions. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, other vendors could sell products with features similar to ours, which could reduce demand for our solutions. We have taken what we believe to be the necessary and appropriate steps to safeguard our intellectual property. However, these steps may afford us only limited protection. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around the patents we own. Despite the precautions we have taken, laws and contractual restrictions may not be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter others from developing similar technologies. In addition, there can be no guarantee that any of our patent applications will result in patents, or that any such patents would provide effective protection of our technology. In addition, the laws of the countries in which we may decide to market our services and solutions may offer little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technology could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without paying us for it, which could harm our business. In addition, our U.S. patents have no effect in foreign jurisdictions and obtaining patent protection in foreign countries is expensive and time consuming. 21 Our operating results would suffer if we, our ISV or network equipment customers, or other third-party software providers from whom we license technology, were subject to an infringement claim that resulted in protracted litigation, the award of significant damages against us or the payment of substantial ongoing royalties. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the technology industry. We expect that server appliance products may be subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in the industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlap. In the past we have received claims from third parties that our server appliance products infringed their intellectual property rights. We do not believe that our server appliance products employ technology that infringes the proprietary rights of any third parties. We are also not aware of any claims made against any of our ISV or network equipment provider customers related to their infringement of the proprietary rights of other parties in relation to products that include our server appliance products. Other parties may make claims against us that, with or without merit, could: · be time-consuming for us to address; · require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements; · result in costly litigation, including potential liability for damages; · divert our management’s attention and resources; and · cause product shipment delays. In addition, other parties may make claims against our ISV or network equipment customers, or third-party software providers related to products that are incorporated into our server appliance products. Our business could be adversely affected if such claims resulted in the inability of our customers to continue producing the infringing product, or if we are unable to cost effectively continue licensing the third-party software. Other risks related to our business. If we fail to retain and attract appropriate levels of qualified employees and members of senior management, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain, and attract highly skilled engineering, sales, marketing, customer service, and managerial personnel. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified personnel, particularly personnel knowledgeable in software engineering and product management, we may not be able to meet key objectives such as developing, upgrading, or enhancing our products in a timely manner, which could negatively impact our business and could hinder any future growth. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. As a result, we have incurred increased expense and have devoted additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. 22 Class action lawsuits have been filed against us, our board of directors, our former chairman and certain of our executive officers and other lawsuits may be instituted against us from time to time. In December 2001, a class action lawsuit relating to our initial public offering was filed against us, our chairman, one of our executive officers and the underwriters of our initial public offering. For more information on lawsuits, see “Part II, Item 1—Legal Proceedings.” We are currently attempting to settle the lawsuit filed against us related to our initial public offering. We are unable to predict the effects on our financial condition or business of the lawsuit related to our initial public offering or other lawsuits that may arise from time to time. While we maintain certain insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that claims against us will not result in substantial monetary damages in excess of such insurance coverage. This class action lawsuit, or any future lawsuits, could cause our director and officer insurance premiums to increase and could affect our ability to obtain director and officer insurance coverage, which would negatively affect our business. In addition, we have expended, and may in the future expend, significant resources to defend such claims. This class action lawsuit, or other similar lawsuits that may arise from time to time, could negatively impact both our financial condition and the market price of our common stock and could result in management devoting a substantial portion of their time to these lawsuits, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. If the site of our manufacturing operations were to experience a significant disruption in its operations, it would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Our manufacturing facility and headquarters are concentrated in one location. If the operations in this facility were disrupted as a result of a natural disaster, fire, power or other utility outage, work stoppage or other similar event, our business could be seriously harmed as a result of interruptions or delays in our manufacturing, engineering, or post-sales support operations. The market price for our common stock may be particularly volatile, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. During fiscal 2005, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a low of $1.37 to a high of $3.16 and in the year ended September 30, 2006, from a low of $1.12 to a high of $3.17. The market for technology stocks has been extremely volatile and frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. General economic conditions, such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations in the United States or abroad, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Any decline in the market price of our common stock or negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, to complete future acquisitions of or investments in other businesses and to attract and retain qualified technical and sales and marketing personnel. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and, without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders, will have the authority to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if issued, might have preference over the rights of the holders of common stock and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of this preferred stock may make it more difficult for a 23 third party to acquire us or to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. In addition, provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated by-laws may deter an unsolicited offer to purchase us. These provisions, coupled with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting. These factors may further delay or prevent a change of control of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 