Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. We expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability. If we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using technologies such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation DNA sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. For example, prices per data point for genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. One or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we do. Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, Applied Biosystems Group, a business segment of Applera Corporation, launched the SOLIDtm System, its next generation sequencing technology. If we are unable 15 Table of Contents to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Our manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our products. We continue to ramp up our capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. Although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan in 2008 and 2009, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These difficulties could impair our profitability. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our profitability could suffer. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief executive officer. The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. The failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. We currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. Our manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego and Hayward, California and Little Chesterford, United Kingdom. We are in the process of expanding our manufacturing operations into Singapore, a country in which we have no past manufacturing experience. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes or floods. If a natural disaster were to significantly damage one of our facilities or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from developing and manufacturing our products and services. Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). Additionally, as part of the decoding step in our array manufacturing process, we record several images of each array to identify what bead is in each location on the array and to validate each bead in the array. This requires significant network and storage infrastructure. If either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and would prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. Our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. We currently have fewer resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services compared to some of our primary competitors. In order to effectively commercialize our sequencing, genotyping and gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. In addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist of U.S. dollar-based short maturity mutual funds, commercial paper, corporate bonds, treasury notes, auction rate securities and municipal bonds. As of December 30, 2007, our short-term investments included $14.7 million of high-grade (AAA rated) auction rate securities issued primarily by municipalities and universities. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of auction rate securities. In February 2008, we were informed that there was insufficient demand at auction for four of our high-grade auction rate securities, representing approximately $10.7 million. As a result, these affected securities are currently not liquid, and we could be required to hold them until they are redeemed by the issuer or to maturity. We may experience a similar situation with our remaining auction rate securities. In the event we need to access the funds that are in an illiquid state, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal, until a future auction on these investments is successful, the securities are redeemed by the issuer or they mature. At this time, management has not obtained sufficient evidence to conclude that these investments are impaired or that they will not be settled in the short term, although the market for these investments is presently uncertain. If the credit ratings of the security issuers deteriorate and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would adjust the carrying value of the investment through an impairment charge. 17 Table of Contents We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could adversely affect our business, specifically the effective launch and customer acceptance of new technology platforms. We acquired Solexa in January 2007 and CyVera in April 2005 and we may in the future acquire technology, products or businesses related to our current or future business. We have limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to complete acquisitions. Further, these potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business. For example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a company’s operations, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. An acquisition may further strain our existing financial and managerial resources, and divert management’s attention away from our other business concerns. In connection with these acquisitions, we assumed certain liabilities and hired certain employees, which is expected to continue to result in an increase in our research and development expenses and capital expenditures. There may also be unanticipated costs and liabilities associated with an acquisition that could adversely affect our operating results. To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock as consideration, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. Additionally, an acquisition may have a substantial negative impact on near-term expected financial results. The success of the Solexa acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, growth opportunities and cost savings from integrating Solexa’s businesses with our businesses. Our success in realizing these benefits and the timing of this realization depends upon the continued successful integration of the operations of Solexa. The integration of two independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. In addition, Solexa continues to operate at separate sites. Geographic integration in whole or in part could result in the loss of key employees, diversion of each company’s management’s attention, the disruption or interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. The combined company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition as a result of our failure to achieve anticipated revenue growth following the acquisition. For various reasons, including significant competition, low market acceptance or market growth, and lack of technology advantage, revenue recognized from the Solexa acquisition may not grow as anticipated and if so, we may not realize the expected value from this transaction. If we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. The nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. For example, we currently use multiple components in our products that are single-sourced. If we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. We may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. Changes in our effective income tax rate could impact our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in 18 Table of Contents determining the provision for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses including share-based compensation, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, and the result of examinations by various tax authorities. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights abroad. The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. However, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. Questions as to inventorship may also arise. Any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. There also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our confidential information. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. Among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential information, and we may not otherwise be able to effectively protect our trade secrets. Accordingly, others may gain access to our confidential information, or may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or impact our stock price. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our ability to protect our own intellectual property. Third parties have asserted or may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. As we 19 Table of Contents enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have a material adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and maintain profitability. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may not be able to make payments on our indebtedness, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could adversely affect our operation and profitability. In February 2007, we issued $400 million of 0.625% Convertible Senior Notes due February 2014. The notes bear interest semi-annually, mature on February 15, 2014 and obligate us to repurchase the notes at the option of the holders if a “designated event” (as defined in the indenture for the notes), such as certain merger transactions involving us, occurs. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, we must pay in cash the principal portion of the notes being converted. Our ability to make payments on the notes will depend on our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash and may also depend on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing. We may need to use our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to fund our research and development programs, strategic initiatives and working capital requirements. Our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service the notes and fund our operating requirements will depend on our continued ability to commercialize new products and expand our manufacturing capabilities. Our debt service obligations increase our vulnerabilities to competitive pressures, because our competitors may be less leveraged than we are. If we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow to service our indebtedness and fund our operating requirements, we may be forced to reduce our development programs or seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all, or may dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns. If we incur new indebtedness, the risks relating to our business and our ability to service our indebtedness will intensify. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. This fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars. Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. Any significant 20 Table of Contents delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. We have only recently achieved annual operating profitability. Prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception, and in 2007 we reported a net loss of $278.4 million, reflecting significant charges associated with our acquisition of Solexa in January 2007 and the settlement of our litigation with Affymetrix. As of December 30, 2007, our accumulated deficit was $383.0 million. Our ability to regain and sustain annual profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to our acquisition of Solexa are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. We expect to continue incurring significant expenses related to research and development, sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. In addition, we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. Even if we regain profitability, we may not be able to increase profitability on a quarterly basis. A significant portion of our sales are to international customers. Approximately 43%, 44% and 38% of our revenue for the years ended December 30, 2007, December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively, was derived from shipments to customers outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international presence and export sales to international customers and we expect the total amount of non-U.S. sales to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks, including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; • difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. These markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. In 21 Table of Contents addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain annual profitability. The accounting method for our convertible debt securities may be subject to change. A convertible debt security providing for share and/or cash settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 00-19, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock, including our outstanding convertible debt securities, is currently classified in its entirety as debt under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. No portion of the carrying value of such a security related to the conversion option indexed to the issuer’s stock is classified as equity. In addition, interest expense is recognized at the stated coupon rate. The coupon rate of interest for convertible debt securities, including our convertible debt securities, is typically lower than an issuer would be required to pay for nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. The EITF recently considered whether the accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities, which are convertible debt securities that require or permit settlement in cash either in whole or in part upon conversion should be changed, but was unable to reach a consensus and discontinued deliberations on this issue. Subsequently, in July 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) voted unanimously to reconsider the current accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities, which includes our convertible debt securities. In August 2007, the FASB exposed for public comment a proposed FASB Staff Position (FSP) that would change the method of accounting for such securities and would require the proposed method to be retrospectively applied. The FASB began its redeliberations of the guidance in that proposed FSP in January 2008. The FSP, if issued as proposed, would likely become effective for companies like us in the first quarter of 2009. Under this proposed method of accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible debt securities would be bifurcated and accounted for separately in a manner that would result in recognizing interest on these securities at effective rates more comparable to what we would have incurred had we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. The equity component of our convertible debt securities would be included in the paid-in-capital section of stockholders’ equity on our balance sheet and, accordingly, the initial carrying values of these debt securities would be reduced. Our net income for financial reporting purposes would be reduced by recognizing the accretion of the reduced carrying values of our convertible debt securities to their face amounts as additional non-cash interest expense. Therefore, if the proposed method of accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities is adopted by the FASB as described above, it would have an adverse impact on our past and future reported financial results. As the final guidance has not been issued, we cannot predict its ultimate outcome. We also cannot predict any other changes in GAAP that may be made affecting accounting for convertible debt securities, some of which could have an adverse impact on our past or future reported financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 Table of Contents 