D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Our business model continues to change and our prospects may be difficult to evaluate based on historical performance. Commencing with the launch of the NetEase websites in 1999 until 2001, the majority of our revenues came from online advertising. In 2001, we began focusing on wireless value-added services and, to a lesser extent other fee-based premium services, which grew to account for 69.4% of total revenues in 2002, but declined to 49.1%, 16.9% and 4.4% of total revenues in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. More recently, we have devoted significant resources to our online games business, which, in turn, grew to account for 15.9% and 35.7% of our total revenues in 2002 and 2003, respectively, and 65.8% and 81.9% of our total net revenues in 2004 and 2005, respectively. The evolution of our business focus over the past few years from solely operating the NetEase websites and selling online advertisements to providing wireless value-added and other fee-based premium services to developing and distributing online games could make it difficult for you to evaluate our future performance based on historical results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues from online games or any other services. 5 Table of Contents Our business depends to a significant extent on two online games, which accounted for 35.7%, 65.8% and 81.9% of our total net revenues in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. We may not be able to maintain the popularity of these games for a variety of reasons. Two of our in-house developed massively multi-player online role-playing games, known as MMORPGs, Westward Journey Online II (which was commercially launched in August 2002) and Fantasy Westward Journey (which was commercially launched in January 2004), contributed 35.7%, 65.8% and 81.9% of our total net revenues in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. We expect that we will need to continually introduce new versions or substantive upgrades of these and our other online games on a frequent basis to maintain their popularity, although changes in users’ tastes or in the overall market for online games in China could alter the anticipated life cycle of each version or upgrade or even cause our users to stop playing our games altogether. Because of the limited history of the online games market in China, we cannot at this time estimate the total life cycle of any of our games. If we are unable to maintain the popularity of Westward Journey Online II and Fantasy Westward Journey or are unable to introduce new online games which are popular with online game users in China (as discussed in the next risk factor), our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to develop and introduce new online games timely and successfully, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends not only on the popularity of our existing online games but also on our ability to develop and introduce new games that our customers and users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new online games that are appealing to users with acceptable prices and terms, our business and operating results will be negatively impacted because we would not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues would suffer. The development of new games can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. New technologies in online game programming or operations could render our current online titles or other online games that we develop in the future obsolete or unattractive to our subscribers, thereby limiting our ability to recover development costs and potentially adversely affecting our future revenues and profitability. In particular, the online game industry in China is entering a transition phase from 2D to 3D games, with numerous new 3D game titles being launched in the market starting in 2004. In response to this trend, we have been devoting additional resources to developing or licensing 3D games and software components for such games, and we cannot assure you that such games will be successful. In particular, we have been devoting a significant portion of our research and development efforts to develop Datang, our first 2.5D game, and Tianxia, our first 3D game. Datang commenced open beta testing in May 2006, and we plan to launch Tianxia’s open beta testing later in 2006. In addition, we are required to devote significant resources to the ongoing operations of our online games, such as staff costs related to our “Games Masters” which supervise the activities within our games. If we fail to anticipate our users’ needs and technological trends accurately or are otherwise unable to complete the development of games in a timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new games into the market to successfully compete. The demand for new games is difficult to forecast, in part due to the relative immaturity of the market and relatively short life cycles of Internet-based technologies. As we introduce and support additional games and as competition in the market for our games intensifies, we expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand. In particular, competition in the online game market is growing as more and more online games are introduced by existing and new market participants. 6 Table of Contents Reports of violence and theft related to online games may result in bad publicity or governmental response that could have a material and adverse impact on our business. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly inspired by online games and theft of virtual items between users in online games. While we believe that such events were not related to our online games, it is possible that our reputation, as one of the leading online game providers in China, could be adversely affected by such behavior. In response to the media reports, in August 2005, the Chinese government enacted new regulations to prohibit all minors under the age of 18 from playing online games in which players are allowed to kill other players, an activity that has been termed Player Kills, or PK. The Chinese government has expressed an intention to limit online game playing time for all minors under the age of 18. See below “Risks Related to the Telecommunications and Internet Industries in China—The Chinese government has expressed an intention to impose new regulations limiting online game playing time for all minors. These and any other new restrictions may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.” If the Chinese government should determine that online games have a negative impact on society, it may impose certain restrictions on the online game industry, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acts of cheating by users of online games could lessen the popularity of our online games, adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations. There have been a number of incidents where users, through a variety of methods, were able to modify the rules of our online games, particularly the online game we licensed from a third party. Although these users did not gain unauthorized access to our systems, they were able to modify the rules of our online games during game play in a manner that allowed them to cheat and disadvantage our other online game users which often has the effect of causing players to stop using the game and shortening the game’s lifecycle. At one point, cheating by some of our online game users led to a decrease in the number of users of our licensed online game PristonTale, which we stopped charging for in August 2004 and stopped operating in May 2005. Although we have taken a number of steps to deter our users from engaging in cheating when playing our online games, we cannot assure you that we or the third parties from whom we license some of our online games will be successful or timely in taking corrective steps necessary to prevent users from modifying the terms of our online games. Illegal game servers could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Several of our competitors have reported that some Internet cafés have installed illegal copies of such competitors’ games on the cafés’ servers and let their customers play such games on illegal servers without paying for the game playing time. While we take numerous measures to address illegal server usage and, to date, our games have not experienced such usage, our preventive measures may not be effective. The misappropriation of our game server installation software and installation of illegal game servers could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The lack of established online payment systems in China could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Online payment systems in China are not as widely available or acceptable to consumers in China as in the United States and elsewhere. Although major Chinese banks have instituted online payment systems, these systems are still at an early stage. In addition, a limited number of consumers in China have credit cards or debit cards. Concerns about secure online payment systems may limit the number of 7 Table of Contents fee-based online transactions that we can service and may limit our growth in these areas. If online payment services do not develop, our ability to grow our online games and wireless value-added and other fee-based services businesses would be limited. In response to these factors and connection with the introduction of our first online game, Westward Journey Online, at the end of 2001, we introduced a prepaid point card which we believe has facilitated the usability and growth of all of our online game services, although its development and distribution has caused us to incur additional costs. To address the difficulty of making online payments in China, users can buy this card at local stores and other locations in China. The points contained in the card can then be used to pay for online services, such as playing time for online games. We cannot be certain, however, that Internet users in China will be willing to continue to adopt this payment method on a wide-spread and consistent basis or that it will be immune to the security and other concerns which have thus far contributed to the relatively low level of e-commerce activity in China. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for our fee-based services, our ability to generate increased revenue will be negatively affected. We depend upon multiple printing companies and distributors to produce and deliver our prepaid point cards to the various points of sale. If such parties mishandle our cards or the related passcodes, our reputation and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We appoint multiple printers and distributors throughout China to produce and deliver our prepaid point cards to the various points of sale. We generally have cards produced by individual printers in batches of thousands, or ten of thousands, of cards, with each card having an individual passcode which enables the purchaser to deposit the points on the card into their online user account to pay for game playing time or our other fee-based services. In addition, before the cards are purchased by users of the NetEase websites, we activate them on our internal systems. In one instance in 2005, one of our printers created unauthorized duplicate batches of our cards with the same passcodes as the cards which we ordered. Because our internal system only allows a passcode for a particular card to be used once, a small number of customers were not able to use their cards because the passcode for the duplicate card had already been used. Although this incident had no material impact on our business or financial results, we have enhanced our efforts to ensure that our cards are produced and distributed in accordance with our instructions. In particular, we have focused our customer service team on quickly responding to customer complaints regarding our cards, both to maintain our reputation in the market and to identify any issues which may indicate a potential problem with a printer or distributor. We are also highly selective in our choice of such parties, and have begun activating our cards on our internal system as close as possible to the purchase of such cards by the end-user to prevent any deposit of duplicate cards. If, however, these efforts are unsuccesful and our printers or distributors mishandle our cards or the related passcodes, our reputation and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We expect that a portion of our future revenues will continue to come from our advertising services, which represented approximately 13.7% of our total net revenues for 2005, but we may not be able to compete effectively in this market because it is relatively new and intensely competitive, in which case our ability to generate and maintain advertising revenue in the future could be adversely affected. Although we anticipate that the revenues generated by our online games will continue to constitute the major portion of our future revenues, we believe that we will continue to rely on advertising revenues as one of our primary revenue sources for the foreseeable future. Online advertising in China is still relatively new and many of our current and potential advertisers have limited experience with the Internet as an advertising medium, have not traditionally devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures or other available funds to Web-based advertising, and may not find the Internet to be effective for promoting their products and services relative to traditional print and broadcast media. Our ability to generate and maintain significant advertising revenue will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; • the development of software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen; • downward pressure on online advertising prices; and • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery and tracking system. In addition, China’s entry into the WTO, and the resulting gradual opening of its telecommunications sector, may facilitate more foreign participation in the Chinese Internet market by such companies, for example, as Yahoo!, Google and Microsoft. Many of these Internet companies have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. The entry of additional, highly competitive Internet companies into the Chinese market would further heighten competition for advertising spending in China. 8 Table of Contents If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for advertising, our ability to generate increased revenue will be negatively affected. We devote significant resources to marketing activities to address increased competition for online services. Such expenditures may not result in the benefits management anticipates. We believe that a general increase in competition for online services has elevated the importance of brand building and brand awareness. In response to this trend, we commenced devoting additional resources to marketing activities in 2004. These expenditures continued, although on a smaller scale, until the fourth quarter of 2005 when we began discontinuing certain outdoor advertising and conducted fewer company-sponsored marketing events. We may determine that additional expenditures may be required going forward. However, these expenditures may not result in the benefits which management anticipates, in which case our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Currently, we depend on the contractual relationships of Guangzhou NetEase Computer System Co., Ltd., or Guangzhou NetEase, with the two principal mobile phone companies in China at the national, provincial and local level for substantially all of our wireless value-added services revenues and the alteration or termination of these relationships could adversely impact our business. Our wireless value-added services are conducted in conjunction with the two principal mobile phone companies in China, China Mobile and China Unicom, which together service the major portion of China’s mobile phone subscribers. We rely on the national, provincial and local affiliates of these two companies to deliver substantially all of our wireless value-added services. We also offer certain of these services through China Netcom’s limited mobility regional mobile phone networks, but such services have contributed an insignificant amount of our wireless value-added services revenue to date. If our various contracts with either China Mobile or China Unicom are terminated or scaled-back, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find appropriate replacement partners with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer these services, which could adversely affect our business. Our wireless value-added services are provided through a number of contracts with the provincial and local affiliates of China Mobile and with China Unicom, and each of these contracts is non-exclusive and of a limited term (generally six months to two years). These contracts may also be terminated in advance under certain circumstances. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew these contracts as necessary or enter into new arrangements with these or other affiliates of China Mobile and China Unicom. We may also be compelled to amend or renew our arrangements with these mobile phone operators in ways which adversely affect our business. In the event Guangzhou NetEase’s relationships with either China Mobile or China Unicom are adversely altered or terminated, our revenue would likely be adversely affected and we may be unable to find alternatives that would replace such networks and revenue. Changes in the policies of China Mobile and China Unicom and in their enforcement of their policies has adversely affected our revenues from wireless value-added services, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in the future. China Mobile and China Unicom have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the wireless value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the mobile operators have refined these policies to 9 Table of Contents improve overall service quality. Also, the way such policies have been enforced as applied to third party service providers has changed in the past, and may do so again in the future. For example, China Mobile banned all cooperative arrangements known as “SMS website unions” in June 2003, effectively precluding large service providers from aggregating unregistered websites and utilizing China Mobile’s billing platform to gather fees for these services. In August 2003, China Mobile further banned service providers from using its network to charge customers for services which were deemed by it to be not purely wireless services. In addition, new billing systems for SMS services have been adopted, which require users to make two confirmations to order services via the Internet, and new policies have been implemented that enable users to more easily cancel services and prevent service providers from billing inactive users for subscription-based services. We believe that these billing systems and policies have adversely affected the growth of our revenue from wireless value-added services in 2004 and 2005. We expect that our revenue growth will continue to be adversely affected by the introduction of these billing systems and policies. We may not be able to adequately respond to these developments or future changes in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the mobile operators’ policies are in a state of flux and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Any non-compliance with the mobile operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue from wireless value-added services. China Mobile and China Unicom may not authorize our wireless value-added services to be offered on their networks if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenue and other criteria imposed or revised by China Mobile and China Unicom at their discretion from time to time. China Mobile and China Unicom, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best performing wireless value-added service providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of users, usage and revenue generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. In the future, we may fail to meet the then current performance criteria that the mobile operators set from time to time. In such case, our services could be excluded from their entire networks at a provincial, municipal or national level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services, which would adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects for our wireless value-added services. We experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our online games which appears to be a result of the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in 2003 and any recurrence of SARS, an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of bird flu (avian influenza) or another widespread public health problem could further adversely affect our business and results of operations. During April and May 2003, we experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our online game services which we believe resulted from the closure of Internet cafés in Beijing and elsewhere to prevent the spread of SARS. Many users of our online game services can only access those services at Internet cafés. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China where virtually all of our revenue is derived and in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou where most of our employees are located could have a negative effect on our operations. 10 Table of Contents In addition, there has been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in the PRC, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; • closure of Internet cafés and other public areas where people access the Internet; and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain our existing key employees and to add and retain senior officers to our management. We depend on the services of our existing key employees. Our success will largely depend on our ability to retain these key employees and to attract and retain qualified senior and middle level managers to our management team. While we believe that our business and results of operations were not adversely affected by the death of our former acting chief executive officer in September 2005, future changes in management could cause material disruptions to our business. We also depend on our ability to attract and retain in the future highly skilled technical, editorial, marketing and customer service personnel, especially experienced online game software developers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain such personnel or that any personnel we hire in the future will successfully integrate into our organization or ultimately contribute positively to our business. In particular, the market for experienced online game software programmers is intensely competitive in China. While we believe we offer compensation packages that are consistent with market practice, we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire and retain sufficient experienced programmers to support our online games business. We may also be unsuccessful in training and retaining less-experienced programmers on a cost-effective basis. The loss of any of our key employees would significantly harm our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. Our revenues fluctuate significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our American Depositary Shares or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenues and results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users to the NetEase websites in the increasingly competitive Internet market in China; • successfully implement our business strategies as planned; and • update and develop our Internet applications, services, technologies and infrastructure. 11 Table of Contents Historically, advertising and e-commerce revenues have followed the same general seasonal trend throughout each year with the first quarter of the year being the weakest quarter due to the Chinese New Year holiday and the traditional close of advertisers’ annual budgets and the third quarter as the strongest. Usage of our wireless value-added services and online games has generally increased around the Chinese New Year holiday and other Chinese holidays, in particular winter and summer school holidays during which school-aged users have more time to use such services and games. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our American Depositary Shares or any other securities of ours which may become publicly traded to decline. We do not own Guangzhou NetEase or Beijing Guangyitong Advertising Co., Ltd., or Guangyitong Advertising, and if they or their ultimate shareholders violate our contractual arrangements with them, our business could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights which may be time consuming and expensive. Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising are owned by shareholders whose interests may differ from ours and those of our shareholders because they own a larger percentage of Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising than of our company. Specifically, the business and operations of Guangzhou NetEase, as the operator of the NetEase websites and a provider of online games and wireless value-added and other fee-based premium services, and Guangyitong Advertising, as an advertising firm, are subject to Chinese laws and regulations that differ from the laws and regulations that govern the business and operations of NetEase. For example, Chinese laws and regulations require us to verify the content of third party advertising content we place on the NetEase websites, and we are partly dependent upon the conduct of Guangyitong Advertising, which is not directly subject to those laws and regulations, in order to ensure that we remain compliant with those laws and regulations. Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising or their ultimate shareholders could violate our arrangements with them by, among other things, failing to operate and maintain the NetEase websites or their various businesses in an acceptable manner, failing to remit revenue to us on a timely basis or at all or diverting customers or business opportunities from our company. A violation of these agreements could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation in the market. If Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising or their ultimate shareholders violate our agreements with them, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights. This litigation could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resource and the incurrence of substantial costs. Because our contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their ultimate shareholders do not detail the parties’ rights and obligations, our remedies for a breach of these arrangements are limited. Our current relationship with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their ultimate shareholders is based on a number of contracts. The terms of these agreements are often statements of general intent and do not detail the rights and obligations of the parties. Some of these contracts provide that the parties will enter into further agreements on the details of the services to be provided. Others contain price and payment terms that are subject to monthly adjustment. These provisions may be subject to differing interpretations, particularly on the details of the services to be provided and on price and payment terms. It may be difficult for us to obtain remedies or damages from Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising or their ultimate shareholders for breaching our agreements. Because we rely significantly on Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising for our business, the realization of any of these risks may disrupt our operations or cause degradation in the quality and service provided on, or a temporary or permanent shutdown of, the NetEase websites. 12 Table of Contents A majority of the share capital of Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising is held by our major shareholder, who may cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that is adverse to us. Our major shareholder, William Lei Ding, holds the majority interest in Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising. As a result, Mr. Ding may be able to cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that will be adverse to our company, or may be able to cause these agreements not to be renewed, even if their renewal would be beneficial for us. Prior to our initial public offering of American Depositary Shares in 2000, a number of these agreements were amended. Although we have entered into an agreement that prevents the amendment of these agreements without the approval of the members of our Board other than Mr. Ding, we can provide no assurances that these agreements will not be amended in the future to contain terms that might differ from the terms that are currently in place. These differences may be adverse to our interests. We may not be able to conduct our operations without the services provided by Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising. Our operations are currently dependent upon our commercial relationships with Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising, and we derive most of our revenues from these companies. A portion of our revenues under our contracts with these companies is based upon preliminary and tentative amounts that have been agreed upon in advance and is subject to being trued-up at our company’s discretion by the end of each quarter. If these companies are unwilling or unable to perform the agreements which we have entered into with them, we may not be able to conduct our operations in the manner in which we currently plan. In addition, Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising may seek to renew these agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control these companies, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them. If we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not expand, and our operating expenses may increase. Our arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their respective shareholders may cause a transfer pricing adjustment and may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their respective shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently provided to us in China could materially and adversely affect our business. Two of our subsidiaries, NetEase Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or NetEase Beijing, and Guangzhou NetEase Interactive Entertainment Limited, or Guangzhou Interactive, have received the relevant approvals to enjoy certain tax holidays and reduced tax rates. Specifically, NetEase Beijing is entitled to a reduced enterprise income tax (“EIT”) rate of 15% commencing from the year 2000. In addition, NetEase Beijing has a full exemption from EIT from 2000 to 2002, a 50% reduction in EIT (i.e., an EIT rate of 7.5%) from 2003 to 2005, and a full exemption from the local tax from 2000 13 Table of Contents onwards. In addition, NetEase Beijing has been recognized as an “Advanced Technology Enterprise” by a local tax bureau and, accordingly, is entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 10% from 2006 to 2008 and a full exemption from local income tax from 2006 onwards. Guangzhou Interactive was entitled to a full exemption from EIT from 2003 to 2004. Subsequently, in June and December 2004, Guangzhou Interactive was recognized as a “Software Enterprise” and a “High Technology Enterprise,” respectively, and, accordingly, is entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 7.5% and a local tax of 3% from 2005 onwards, provided it passes an annual examination by the relevant tax authorities for compliance with the requirements to qualify as a “Software Enterprise” and a “High Technology Enterprise.” Such preferential tax treatment may be subject to review by higher authorities. If we are not able to continue to qualify for that tax treatment, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K or Form 20-F, as applicable, that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Management may not conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective. For example, in the course of its audit of our 2005 financial statements, PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited Company, our independent auditors, identified several areas of our internal controls relating to financial reporting matters that require improvement. These areas include documenting and implementing certain entity level policies and procedures and improving the controls and infrastructure of our computer systems, including our financial reporting systems. Even if these and any other issues that may arise in the future are addressed and our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if such firm is not satisfied with our internal control over our financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if such firm interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. As a result, any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements. Unexpected network interruption caused by system failures may reduce visitor traffic and harm our reputation. Both the continual accessibility of the NetEase websites and the performance and reliability of our technical infrastructure are critical to our reputation and the ability of the NetEase websites to attract 14 Table of Contents and retain users and advertisers. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce user satisfaction and traffic, which would reduce the NetEase websites’ appeal to users and advertisers. As the number of NetEase Web pages and traffic increase, we cannot assure you that we will be able to scale our systems proportionately. In addition, any system failures and electrical outages could materially and adversely impact our business. Computer viruses may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce visitor traffic and harm our reputation. Computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect the NetEase websites against the threat of such computer viruses and to alleviate any problems. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and our visitor traffic may decrease. Computer hacking could damage our systems and reputation. Any compromise of security, such as computer hacking, could cause Internet usage to decline. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may have to spend significant capital and human resources to rectify any damage to our system. In addition, we cannot assure you that any measures we take against computer hacking will be effective. A well publicized computer security breach could significantly damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. Although we have not experienced any hacking activity that allowed unauthorized access to any information stored on our network, caused any loss or corruption of data, software or other computer equipment, we have been subject to denial of service attacks that have caused portions our network to be inaccessible for limited periods of time. In addition, we have had denial of service attacks and viruses or worms introduced into our network. Although we take a number of measures to ensure that our systems are secure and unaffected by security breaches, including ensuring that our servers are hosted at physically secure sites, limiting access to server ports, and using isolated intranets, passwords, and encryption technology, we cannot assure you that any measures we take against computer hacking will be effective. If our providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services, our business could be materially curtailed. We rely on affiliates of China Netcom and China Telecom to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for Internet users to access the NetEase websites. If China Netcom, China Telecom or their affiliates fail to provide such services or raise prices for their services, we may not be able to find a reliable and cost-effective substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. If this happens, our business could be materially curtailed. We may be held liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are published on the NetEase websites. We are involved in several intellectual property infringement claims or actions and are 15 Table of Contents occasionally subject to defamation claims. We believe that the amounts claimed in these actions, in the aggregate, are not material to our business. However, these amounts may be increased for a variety of reasons as the claims progress, and we and our affiliates could be subject to additional defamation or infringement claims which, singly or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, if successful. We also could be subject to claims based upon content that is accessible on the NetEase websites such as content and materials posted by users on message boards, online communities, voting systems, e-mail or chat rooms that are offered on the NetEase websites. By providing technology for hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third party sites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information distributed by us. Moreover, users of the NetEase Web-based e-mail services could seek damages from us for: • unsolicited e-mails; • lost or misplaced messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. Information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites may subject us to claims of violating Chinese laws. Violations or perceived violations of Chinese laws arising from information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites could result in significant penalties, including a temporary or complete cessation of our business. Chinese government agencies have announced restrictions on the transmission of “state secrets” through the Internet. The term “state secrets” has been broadly interpreted by Chinese governmental authorities in the past. We may be liable under these pronouncements for content and materials posted or transmitted by users on message boards, virtual communities, chat rooms or e-mails. The Ministry of National Security and the Ministry of Public Security have authority to cause any local Internet service provider to block any website. These ministries have, in the past, stopped the online distribution of information that they believed to be socially destabilizing or politically improper. If the Chinese government takes any action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through the NetEase websites, or to limit or regulate any current or future community functions available to users or otherwise block the NetEase websites, our business would be significantly harmed. Privacy concerns may prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising in the future which could make the NetEase websites less attractive to advertisers. We collect demographic data, such as geographic location, income level and occupation, from our registered users in order to better understand users and their needs. We provide this data to online advertisers, on an anonymous aggregate basis, without disclosing personal details such as name and home address, to enable them to target specific demographic groups. If privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from collecting this information or from selling demographically targeted advertising, the NetEase websites may be less attractive to advertisers. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective to prevent unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties have initiated litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, and additional claims may arise in the future. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. See Item 4 “Business Overview—Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights.” We believe we were a passive foreign investment company for the 2000, 2001 and 2002 taxable years, which will result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors who held our shares or American Depositary Shares during any of those taxable years, and we cannot be certain whether we will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 taxable year. Based upon the nature of our income and assets, it is possible that we could be treated as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes for certain of our prior taxable years. Although we do not believe we should be treated as a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 taxable year, no assurance can be given that we would not be so classified because of the uncertainty of the characterization of our income and the valuation of our assets. The determination is based on the treatment of income generated by the agreements between us and certain of our subsidiaries, on the one hand, and our affiliated Chinese entities, on the other hand, as being active or passive income and on our valuation of our assets, including goodwill. The calculation of goodwill is based, in part, on the then market value of our American Depositary Shares, which is subject to change. In addition, we have made a number of assumptions regarding the calculation of goodwill and the allocation of goodwill among active and passive assets. While we believe our analysis regarding the nature of our income and the approach to valuing our assets are reasonable, the relevant authorities in this area are unclear, and our determination is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we were a passive foreign investment company for certain prior taxable years, and we cannot predict with certainty whether we will be treated as a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 taxable year although, as noted, we believe we should not be a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 taxable year. U.S. investors who owned our shares during any taxable year in which we are treated as a passive foreign investment company generally will be subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for those taxable years and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to be a passive foreign investment company for other taxable years and any succeeding years, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed passive foreign investment company status may be made in certain circumstances. The same adverse U.S. tax consequences will apply to our U.S. investors who acquire our shares during the 2006 taxable year or any subsequent taxable year if we are treated as a passive foreign investment company for that taxable year. Even if we were not a passive foreign investment company for prior taxable years and are not treated as a passive foreign investment company for the 2006 taxable year, we cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company for any future taxable year. 17 Table of Contents If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends to us, our primary internal source of funds would decrease. NetEase.com is a holding company with no significant assets other than cash on hand and its equity interests in NetEase Beijing, NetEase Interactive Entertainment Ltd., or NetEase Interactive, NetEase Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or NetEase Shanghai (which was dissolved in February 2006), and Guangzhou Boguan Telecommunication Technology Limited, or Boguan, which are the wholly owned subsidiaries of NetEase.com, and Guangzhou NetEase Interactive Entertainment Limited, or Guangzhou Interactive, a wholly owned subsidiary of NetEase Interactive. As a result, our primary internal source of funds is dividend payments from our subsidiaries. If these subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our American Depositary Shares or to make any required payments to holders of our convertible notes. Under current Chinese tax regulations, dividends paid to us are not subject to Chinese income tax, but PRC tax authorities may require us to amend our contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their respective shareholders in a manner that would materially and adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to us. In addition, Chinese legal restrictions permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Under Chinese law, NetEase Beijing, Guangzhou Interactive and Boguan are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A slow-down in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slow down will not have a negative effect on our business. Several years ago, the Chinese economy experienced deflation, which may reoccur in the foreseeable future. More recently, the Chinese government announced its intention to use macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, the results of which are difficult to predict. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as expenditures for advertisements and e-commerce and other services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese 18 Table of Contents government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • inflation rates; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Fluctuation in Renminbi exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our American Depositary Shares and any cash dividend declared on them. The value of the Renminbi may fluctuate according to a number of factors. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which was set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to US dollars was generally stable. However, on July 21, 2005, as a result of the Renminbi being re-pegged to a basket of currencies, the Renminbi was revalued and appreciated against the US dollar. There can be no assurance that such exchange rate will continue to remain stable in the future. Our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, and any fluctuation in the exchange rate of Renminbi may affect the value of, and dividends, if any, payable on, our American Depositary Shares in foreign currency terms. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend payments in US dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. Current account transactions include payments of dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. As a result, our subsidiaries and affiliates in China may purchase foreign exchange for the payment of dividends to NetEase.com and of license and content fees to offshore software and content partners. In contrast, capital account transactions, which include foreign direct investment and loans, must be approved by the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. 19 Table of Contents The Chinese government has strengthened the regulation of investments made by Chinese residents in offshore companies and reinvestments in China made by these offshore companies. Our business may be adversely affected by these new restrictions. The SAFE has adopted new regulations that require registration with, and approval from, Chinese government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by Chinese residents. The SAFE regulations retroactively require registration of investments in non-Chinese companies previously made by Chinese residents. In particular, the SAFE regulations require Chinese residents to file with SAFE information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as mergers, acquisitions, capital increases and decreases, external equity investments or equity transfers. In addition, Chinese residents must obtain approval from SAFE before they transfer domestic assets or equity interests in exchange for equity or other property rights in an offshore company. A newly established enterprise in China which receives foreign investments is also now required to provide detailed information about its controlling shareholders and to certify whether it is directly or indirectly controlled by a domestic entity or resident. In the event that a Chinese shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the Chinese subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the Chinese subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above can result in liability under Chinese law for foreign exchange evasion. In accordance with the SAFE regulations, with the exception of companies listed on overseas stock markets, foreign exchange income received by overseas special purpose companies directly or indirectly controlled by Chinese residents for the purpose of raising funds for such Chinese residents’ domestically controlled companies may not be retained by such offshore companies. Moreover, within thirty days of receiving any income, whether directly or indirectly through such overseas special purpose companies, a Chinese resident must remit all such income back to China. These regulations may have a significant impact on our present and future structuring and investment. To comply with these regulations, our founder, William Ding, has successfully filed with Guangdong Branch of SAFE information about NetEase.com and other offshore companies in which he has direct or indirect shareholding. We intend to take all necessary measures for ensuring that all required applications and filings will be duly made and all other requirements will be met. We further intend to structure and execute our future offshore acquisitions in a manner consistent with the new regulations and any other relevant legislation. However, because it is presently uncertain how the SAFE regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to comply with, qualify under, or obtain any approvals required by the regulations or other legislation. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any PRC shareholders of our company or any PRC company into which we invest will be able to comply with those requirements. The inability of our company or any PRC shareholder to secure required approvals or registrations in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions may subject us to legal sanctions, restrict our ability to pay dividends from our Chinese subsidiaries to our offshore holding company, and restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities or affect our ownership structure. 20 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INTERNET INDUSTRIES IN CHINA Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our customer and user base and limit the access to the NetEase websites. Increased government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries in China may result in the Chinese government requiring us to obtain additional licenses or other governmental approvals to conduct our business which, if unattainable, may restrict our operations. The telecommunications industry, including Internet content provider, or ICP, services and online games, is highly regulated by the Chinese government, the main relevant government authority being the Ministry of Information Industry, or MII. Prior to China’s entry into the WTO, the Chinese government generally prohibited foreign investors from taking any equity ownership in or operating any telecommunications business. ICP services are classified as telecommunications value-added services and therefore fell within the scope of this prohibition. This prohibition was partially lifted following China’s entry into the WTO. Pursuant to the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises promulgated by the State Council dated December 5, 2001, foreign investors are allowed to hold in the aggregate up to 50% of the total equity in any value-added telecommunications business in China. In addition, foreign and foreign invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating online games in China. To operate the NetEase websites in compliance with all the relevant ICP-related Chinese regulations, Guangzhou NetEase successfully obtained ICP licenses issued by the Guangdong Provincial Telecommunications Bureau in 2000. The ICP license of Guangzhou NetEase issued by the Guangzhou Provincial Telecommunications Bureau was replaced by the Value-Added Telecommunication Operating License issued by the Ministry of Information Industry in 2004. Guangzhou NetEase has obtained the following licenses and registrations: a commercial website registration with the Beijing Municipal Administrative Bureau of Industry and Commerce, an audio-visual product operating license issued by Guangdong Culture Department to sell audio-visual products in Internet, an Internet publishing license issued by General Administration of Press and Publication, an Internet culture operating license for online game activities issued by the Ministry of Culture, and a license for online dissemination of drug-related information issued by Guangdong Food and Drug Administration. It has also received approvals for online dissemination of health information from the Department of Health of Guangdong Province and approvals for provision of online education-related information from the Department of Education of Guangdong Province. However, we cannot be certain that we will be granted any other additional license, permit or clearance we may need in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that any local or national ICP or telecommunications license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of our services. NetEase.com relies exclusively on contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase and its approvals to operate as Internet content providers. We believe that our present operations are structured to 21 Table of Contents comply with Chinese law. However, many Chinese regulations are subject to extensive interpretive powers of governmental agencies and commissions. We cannot be certain that the Chinese government will not take action to prohibit or restrict our business activities. We are uncertain as to whether the Chinese government will reclassify our business as a media or retail company, due to our acceptance of fees for Internet advertising, online games and wireless value-added and other services as sources of revenues, or as a result of our current corporate structure. Such reclassification could subject us to penalties or fines or significant restrictions on our business. In addition, NetEase.com may have difficulties enforcing its rights under the agreements with Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising if any of these parties breaches any of the agreements with them because NetEase.com does not have approval from appropriate Chinese authorities to provide Internet content services, Internet advertising services or wireless value-added services. Future changes in Chinese government policies affecting the provision of information services, including the provision of online services, Internet access, e-commerce services and online advertising, may impose additional regulatory requirements on us or our service providers or otherwise harm our business. The PRC government has intensified its regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently one of the primary venues for our users to access the NetEase websites and our services, especially online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés, at which many of our users access the NetEase websites and our services, especially online games. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafés have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may slow down the growth of Internet cafés. In addition, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, one of the government agencies in charge of Internet cafe licensing, and other government agencies jointly issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses for a period of six months. Although such six-month period has ended, we believe based on information available to us that, in practice, such suspension remains in effect. It is unclear when this suspension will be lifted, if at all. So long as Internet cafés are one of the primary venues for our users to access the NetEase websites and our services, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base, thereby reducing our profitability and growth prospects. The Chinese government has expressed an intention to impose new regulations limiting online game playing time for all minors. These and any other new restrictions may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. As part of its anti-addiction online game policy, the Chinese government has expressed an intention to impose new regulations which will have the effect of discouraging minors under the age of 18 from continuously playing online games once they exceed a set number of hours of continuous play. While we believe that these restrictions will not materially adversely affect our business, we cannot be certain of their long-term implications. In addition, in March 2006, the Chinese government announced an authentication system which will be implemented later in 2006 and requires all players to enter their identification card numbers before being allowed to play online games. The effect such a system could have on our business is unclear. It has been reported in the Chinese media that the Chinese government has concerns about the social impact of online games, and it may impose additional regulatory restrictions on us, our customers or otherwise take actions that harm our business. 22 Table of Contents The Chinese government has not enacted any laws regarding virtual asset property rights and, accordingly, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game providers may have for virtual assets. One of the features of our MMORPGs which helps to build a large user base and maintain loyalty is that users can accumulate virtual tools, powers and rankings as they play the games. We believe that these virtual assets are highly valued by our users, particularly long-term users, and are traded among users. However, on occasion, such assets can be lost if, for example, a users’ identity is stolen by another user or we experience a system error or crash. The Chinese government has not enacted any laws regarding virtual assert property rights. Accordingly, we have no basis to determine what are the legal rights, if any, associated with virtual assets and what liabilities we could be exposed to for the loss or destruction of virtual assets. We could therefore potentially be held liable for the way in which we handle and protect virtual assets. Our business would be materially harmed if the Chinese government were to take any action against us for the content on the NetEase websites. The Chinese government has enacted regulations governing Internet access and distribution of news and other information over the Internet. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believed to be inappropriate. We cannot predict the effect of further developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of laws. Although none of the content that we currently produce contains material that we believe would be considered inappropriate, some of our users may be involved in producing and/or transmitting material that may be considered inappropriate. Although we constantly monitor the content of material transmitted on the NetEase websites, we cannot assure you that we will in every instance uncover and block transmission of all material that may be considered inappropriate. If we are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, the relevant Chinese authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • revoking our business license; • requiring us to restructure our corporate structure, operations or relationship with Guangzhou NetEase or Guangyitong Advertising; and • requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of our Internet business or our relationship with Guangzhou NetEase or Guangyitong Advertising. Any such action would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and on the holders of our American Depositary Shares. 23 Table of Contents The limited use of personal computers in China limits our pool of potential customers and restricts the growth of our business. The Internet penetration rate in China is, and is expected to continue to be, lower than that in the United States and other developed countries. Alternate methods of obtaining access to the Internet, such as through mobile phones, cable television modems or set-top boxes for televisions, are not widely available in China at present. There can be no assurance that the number or penetration rate of personal computers in China will increase rapidly or at all or that alternate means of accessing the Internet will develop and become widely available in China. If significant numbers of Chinese consumers are unable to access the Internet, our ability to grow our business would be impeded. There has been a steady decrease in the rate of the growth of Internet users in China which could limit the overall size of our market and adversely affect our revenues. While the number of Internet users in China has been growing since its introduction and continues to grow currently, we believe that the rate of this growth has slowed in recent years. We cannot predict whether this trend will continue at its current pace or at all, and the factors which will affect future growth in the Internet industry in China, as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, are largely beyond our control. If this trend does continue, our potential market may not be as large as we had expected, and there will be even greater competition for Internet users in China. In that case, our ability to generate revenues from online games, advertising, e-commerce and other services could be adversely affected. The relatively high cost of accessing the Internet in China limits our potential customer base and restricts the growth of our business. Our growth is limited by the relatively high cost to Chinese consumers of obtaining the hardware, software and communications links necessary to connect to the Internet in China. If the costs required to access the Internet do not significantly decrease, most of China’s population will not be able to afford to use our services. The failure of a significant number of additional Chinese consumers to obtain affordable access to the Internet would make it difficult to grow our business. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Barriers to entry are minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites at a relatively low cost. Many companies offer competitive products or services including Chinese language-based Web search, retrieval and navigation services, wireless value-added services, online games and extensive Chinese language content, informational and community features and e-mail. In addition, as a consequence of China joining the World Trade Organization, the Chinese government has partially lifted restrictions on foreign-invested enterprises so that foreign investors may hold in the aggregate up to 50% of the total equity ownership in any value-added telecommunications business, including an Internet business, in China. Currently, our competition comes from Chinese language-based Internet portal companies as well as US-based portal companies. Some of our current and potential competitors are much larger than we are, and currently offer, and could further develop or acquire, content and services that compete with the NetEase websites. We also face competition from online game developers and operators, Internet service providers, wireless value-added service providers, website operators and providers of Web browser software that incorporate search and retrieval features. With respect to online games, we believe that more competitors are entering this market in China and that our competitors are becoming more active in 24 Table of Contents both licensing foreign-developed games and developing games in-house, which trends, if they continue, could adversely affect our online games revenues in the future. Any of our present or future competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us and, therefore, achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Because many of our existing competitors as well as a number of potential competitors have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name and brand recognition, better connections with the Chinese government, larger customer bases and databases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any increased competition could reduce page views, make it difficult for us to attract and retain users, reduce or eliminate our market share, lower our profit margins and reduce our revenues. 25 Table of Contents 