RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this annual report, the considerations listed below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares, warrants, ADSs or ADWs. The risks set forth below comprise all material risks currently known to us. However, there may be additional risks that we do not currently know of or that we currently deem immaterial based on the information available to us. These factors should be considered carefully, together with the information and financial data set forth in this document. Risks Related to the Airline Industry Future terrorist attacks, the threat of attacks or regional instability, medical epidemics or threats or fears of epidemics may worsen conditions in the airline industry. The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 had a significant negative effect on the global economy, political stability and market conditions around the world. Airlines, in particular, experienced significant revenue losses and incurred substantial additional costs, principally as a result of a decrease in demand for air travel, significantly higher costs of insurance and passenger and aircraft security, and decreases in the resale prices of some types of aircraft. Regional instability following hostilities in Iraq has also had a material adverse effect on the airline industry. Any future terrorist attack, military action, or the threat of attacks or action, in the Middle East or elsewhere, could result in a general reduction in airline passenger traffic and prices for airline travel, newly imposed air traffic restrictions in affected regions and an increase in fuel or insurance costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, passenger volumes may significantly decrease in the event of a medical epidemic or threat or fear of an epidemic. For example, the outbreak of SARS in 2003 resulted in a sharp reduction in air traffic and revenue related to Asia. The prolonged existence of a medical epidemic, or the perception that an outbreak has not been contained or may occur again in the future, may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our air services to or from affected countries. Insurance costs increased significantly after September 11, 2001, and may increase in the future, and the amount of available insurance coverage may be further limited as the result of similar events. Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, insurance premiums for airlines increased significantly, especially for risks relating to terrorism. In addition, in the immediate aftermath of September 11, 2001, insurance companies renegotiated insurance coverage for certain risks relating to war and other hostilities, charging substantially higher rates and limiting coverage to a uniform amount of $50 million. As a result, the European Commission authorized European governments to offer coverage to airlines, at a charge, for loss amounts that exceeded the insurance coverage available in the market for war and other hostilities. In the event of further terrorist attacks or acts of war, government support similar or comparable to the coverage that was made available in the immediate aftermath of September 11, 2001 may not be made available, insurance premiums may be increased further or insurance may be made available only with additional limitations on coverage. Any failure to obtain adequate insurance coverage or insurance coverage at financially acceptable terms in the future would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government support of airlines may have a distorting effect on competition in the airline industry. Following the events of September 11, 2001, a number of countries took measures to help airlines extend coverage for damage caused to third parties on the ground as a result of terrorist acts, since the coverage available in the insurance market was limited. The French State and the Netherlands offered airlines, for a charge, an extension of coverage for loss amounts that exceeded the insurance coverage available in the market. From November 1, 2002, France and the Netherlands phased out this additional coverage at the direction of the European Commission, and European airline companies were required to obtain insurance coverage from private insurance companies. The United States, however, passed legislation permitting federal authorities to maintain government guarantees in favor of U.S. airline companies covering damage caused to third parties on the ground, passengers, crew and aircraft, at cost levels substantially below those borne by European airlines. In addition, in 9 Table of Contents February 2005, the U.S. government took over US Airways pensions for machinists and attendants in exchange for a financial stake in US Airways. Further, in May 2005, the U.S. government agreed to take over United Airlines pensions in exchange for a financial stake in its parent company, UAL Corp. Added to the substantial subsidies received from U.S. federal authorities and the costs of new security measures assumed by the U.S. federal authorities following the events of September 11, 2001, the reduced insurance costs paid by U.S. airlines have offered, and continue to offer, U.S. airlines a significant competitive advantage over their European competitors, particularly on routes over the North Atlantic. Similar measures taken by governmental authorities in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business. High fixed costs and low profit margins may limit profitability in the airline industry. The airline industry is characterized by low gross profit margins and high fixed costs. The expenses of each flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers or amount of cargo carried and, therefore, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in the pricing or traffic mix could have a significant effect on operating and financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall from expected business levels could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The airline industry is by nature cyclical and seasonal, which may cause our results to vary widely. Our businesses are highly sensitive to local, regional and international economic conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to changing economic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in the principal markets throughout the world. Because both business and leisure airline travel is discretionary, our business tends to experience severe adverse financial results during general economic downturns. In addition, during an economic downturn, we may also be required to accept delivery of new aircraft that we have agreed to purchase even if the new aircraft are not required for our current operations, or may be unable to dispose of unnecessary aircraft on financially acceptable terms. The airline industry tends to be seasonal in nature. The demand for scheduled airline services is lowest during the winter months, which generally results in seasonal fluctuations in revenues and results of operations. Our results of operations for the interim periods of any financial year may not be indicative of our results of operations for the full year. Changes in international, regional and local regulation and legislation could significantly increase our costs of operations or reduce our revenues. Our operations are subject to a high degree of international, European and national regulation covering most aspects of its operation, including traffic rights, fare setting, operating standards (the most important of which relate to safety, security and aircraft noise), airport access and slot availability. Additional laws and regulations and additional or increased taxes, airport and navigation rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase our cost of operations or reduce our revenues. The ability of European carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between European and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots are not available. Laws or regulations enacted in the future may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to the Business The integration of Air France and KLM may be difficult and may not result in the benefits that we currently expect. The development of Air France-KLM requires the integration of two major and complex activities that were run separately until the beginning of the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Air France-KLM may encounter difficulties with the integration of the activities of Air France and KLM and may not be able to achieve all of the objectives of and the synergies expected to result from the combination. 10 Table of Contents Regulatory authorities have imposed conditions and may impose additional conditions that could reduce the expected benefits of the combination. Air France and KLM, in order to secure the approval of the combination by the European Commission on February 11, 2004, agreed to make a number of concessions in respect of the operations of Air France-KLM, including a commitment to release take-off and landing slots to competitors at certain airports. While we do not believe that compliance with these undertakings has had or will have a material adverse effect on our operations, the financial impact on us is difficult to predict with certainty. Substantial competition from other major airlines, high-speed rail travel and “low-cost” airlines may harm our business. The airline industry is highly competitive and prone to price discounting. The air travel market in the European Union has been fully liberalized and any European airline is able to compete with Air France and KLM in their domestic and European markets. Liberalization of the European market and the resulting competition among carriers has led to a general decrease of airfares and an increase in the number of competitors in many lines of business. We currently face substantial competition from other carriers. This competition is likely to increase further. With respect to short-haul and medium-haul flights in or from France, the Netherlands and other European countries, we currently face competition from providers of alternative forms of transportation. In particular, we compete directly with the French high-speed train system (the TGV) on transportation to major French cities, which are the targeted market for Air France’s La Navette shuttle services. The Eurostar train service to London competes directly with Air France’s flights to London. An expansion of the TGV system within France or high-speed rail service within Europe generally could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we face increasing competition from low-cost airlines that have become significant competitors in the European airline industry in recent years. The percentage of routes on which we compete with carriers having substantially lower operating costs has grown significantly over the past decade. Such competition is likely to continue at this level or intensify in the future. Moreover, the increase in pricing transparency resulting from the use of the Internet has enabled consumers to more easily obtain the lowest fare on any given route. Continued or increased competition from other carriers, including low-cost airlines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by high jet fuel prices. After labor costs, fuel costs constitute the single largest portion of our operating costs and have a major impact on our results of operations. For the year ended March 31, 2005, fuel costs represented 14.3% of our operating expenses, an increase of 33.3% from the prior year on a pro forma basis. The price of jet fuel is usually correlated to the price of petroleum. The average price of Brent IPE petroleum for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 was $42.70 per barrel and between January and March 2005 was $47.88 per barrel, and between April and June 2005 was $52.85 per barrel. The price of Brent IPE petroleum on July 19, 2005 was U.S.$56.63 per barrel. The average price of jet fuel for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 was $440.42 per ton and between January and March 2005 was $487.30 per ton. These rates are very high by historical standards. Jet fuel costs may be affected by a number of factors, including fluctuations in the euro/dollar exchange rate, political events, war or the threat of war, and the coordinated pricing decisions of producer cartels such as OPEC. We seek to reduce this risk by hedging against the price of petroleum. We have additionally introduced a fuel surcharge per flight leg as from May 2004 which we increased in August 2004, October 2004, April 2005, and again in July 2005 due to the increasing price of fuel. We have also introduced a fuel surcharge on cargo operations. Notwithstanding the application of hedging policies, the introduction of a fuel surcharge and possible adjustments in fares across the industry during periods of sustained high fuel prices, high jet fuel costs have had a 11 Table of Contents material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations in the past, and may have such an effect on us in the future. In addition, while we purchase our fuel in dollars, our reporting currency is the euro. Adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may further exacerbate the effects of high fuel prices. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and increases in interest rates may negatively affect our results. Given the international nature of our business, we receive a large part of our revenues and incur an even larger part of our expenses in certain foreign currencies, particularly dollars, and will be exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between those currencies and the euro. Our dollar revenues are less than our dollar costs, such as fuel costs and payments under aircraft operating leases. As a result, the sharp decline of the dollar against the euro has had a positive impact on our profitability by decreasing our costs more rapidly than its revenues. However, if the dollar were to increase in value against the euro, our costs would rise more rapidly than revenues, negatively affecting profitability. We estimate that Air France-KLM’s net exposure to the dollar (dollar costs minus dollar revenues) for the current financial year is approximately $2.2 billion. We seek to reduce this risk by hedging against currency fluctuations. With respect to the British pound and Japanese yen, we currently have more revenues than costs in those currencies, so that a decrease in their value would have a negative effect on our profitability. As a result, significant increases in the value of the dollar or, to a lesser extent, decreases in the value of the pound or yen, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, despite our efforts to hedge against these fluctuations. We are also exposed to increases in interest rates. At March 31, 2005, 20% of Air France-KLM’s net debt had variable rates of interest. A significant rise in interest rates could substantially increase the cost of this debt, reducing our net income. The failure of an alliance to develop or the decision by other members not to participate fully or to withdraw from an alliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Maintenance and development of alliances and other strategic relations are critical to our business. Air France and KLM are members of the SkyTeam alliance with Aeroméxico, Alitalia, Continental Airlines, CSA Czech Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Korean Air and Northwest Airlines. We also have a joint venture with Alitalia. The success of these alliances depends in part on the actions and strategic plans of the other airlines over which we have little control. The failure of an alliance to develop or the decision by other members not to participate fully or to withdraw from the alliance altogether could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we believe that further industry consolidation is likely, whether through additional alliances or otherwise. A failure to maintain or develop strategic alliances could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our development of new routes depends on access to a limited number of “slots” at international airports that may be withdrawn if not sufficiently used. Our ability to add additional flights to the existing schedules of Air France and KLM will be constrained, in part, by the availability of slots at the world’s main airports. In the European Union, air carriers must generally use an allocated slot at a minimum of 80% of the level of use during the period the slot was assigned. Air France and KLM may lose flight slots granted to them should they not use those slots at an 80% level. In addition, Air France and KLM have committed to the European Commission to make slots available to competitors on certain routes under certain circumstances. Compliance with environmental regulations may affect our existing or future operations and result in additional costs. The airline industry is subject to environmental laws and regulations and will be subject to further environmental laws and regulations in the future. These environmental laws and regulations relate to, among 12 Table of Contents other things, aircraft noise and aircraft engine emissions, the use and handling of hazardous materials, air emissions and environmental contamination clean-up. In recent years, French, Dutch, E.U. and U.S. regulatory authorities have issued a number of directives and other regulations including regulations relating to aircraft noise and age. These requirements impose high fees, taxes and substantial ongoing compliance costs on airlines, particularly as new aircraft brought into service will have to meet the environmental requirements during their entire service life. We expect to incur expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with such regulations. Compliance with these laws could restrict our ability to modify or expand facilities or continue operations, or could require us to install costly pollution control equipment or incur other significant expenses, including remediation costs. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Regulation of Air France-KLM—Other Regulatory and Legal Issues—Environmental Protection and Anti-Noise Standards”. The assurances to KLM and the State of the Netherlands could limit our ability to take certain actions. In connection with the combination, Air France and KLM granted certain assurances to the State of the Netherlands. The assurances granted to the State of the Netherlands have a term of five or eight years from completion of the offer, depending on the assurance in question. The State assurances are intended to preserve the network quality of KLM at Schiphol airport, which, according to the State of the Netherlands, is a matter of public interest for the Netherlands, and include certain binding commitments by both Air France and KLM. In addition, Air France and KLM agreed to certain assurances designed to preserve basic principles underlying the business combination. These assurances could limit our ability to respond to changes in the competitive or economic environments in which it will operate, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms in the future. Because the airline industry is by its nature capital intensive, Air France and, in particular, KLM have incurred significant indebtedness and capital commitments to finance their ongoing operations. Air France and KLM have been able to finance their operations and capital needs in part because their main assets, aircraft, have been attractive as security to lenders and other financiers. However, there can be no assurance that aircraft or any other assets held by Air France or KLM will continue to provide attractive security for lenders. Any prolonged restriction on the ability to raise money in the market in the future could adversely affect our ability to borrow, which could in turn have an adverse impact on its business and results of operations. Unfavorable outcomes of lawsuits may weaken our liquidity position. We are involved in various legal actions for which we have not recorded provisions because management believes they are without merit. Unfavorable outcomes of such actions could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and weaken our liquidity position. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Business—Legal Proceedings”. High labor costs or an inability to conclude future collective labor agreements on satisfactory terms may result in a decrease in our operating margins. Wage rates have a significant effect on our operating results. Our profitability could suffer if it is not able to conclude future collective labor agreements on satisfactory terms with our employees. For the year ended March 31, 2005, labor costs represented 31.8% of our operating expenses. Labor disruptions could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. If we are not able in the future to renew our collective labor agreements or other key agreements with our employees in a satisfactory way, or if any strike, work stoppage or work slowdown occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Disruption of air traffic control and other airport services may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations rely upon the services of third parties such as those provided by air traffic controllers and public safety officials, and we use the services of third parties such as handling and private security agents in the ordinary course of its business. We have no direct control over the activities of these third parties and could be directly affected by any change, interruption or termination of their activities. Any interruption in the normal business activities of these third parties, such as operational malfunctioning or a series of prolonged strikes, or an increase in airport or rental fees charged in connection with the use of these services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The closure of terminal 2E at Roissy-CDG may affect our existing or future operations and result in additional costs. Air France terminated operations in terminal 2E at Roissy-CDG on May 23, 2004, following the collapse of part of the roof of the newly built terminal. Terminal 2E was constructed and is owned by Aéroports de Paris (ADP) and was used primarily for Air France long- and medium-haul flights. Air France flights have been rerouted to the five other terminals at Roissy-CDG. Despite the unavailability of the facilities in terminal 2E, Air France has maintained its schedule as originally planned by relying on the remainder of the airport’s facilities. Certain Air France-KLM and SkyTeam flights have been reassigned to other terminals and certain long-haul flight times have been revised to accommodate the longer time required for ground services such as check-in, boarding and connections. In spite of the diminished service offerings available at terminal 2E and the increased costs associated with reassigning flights to other terminals, we believe these events have had no significant impact on our results of operations. Although we are currently seeking compensation from the entities or persons liable for damages and the supplemental costs incurred in connection with the collapse of terminal 2E, there can be no guarantee that all of these costs will be reimbursed. Additionally, there can be no guarantee that Roissy-CDG’s remaining facilities will be sufficient to accommodate our regularly scheduled flights or that we will be able to maintain its flight schedule without incurring additional costs due to the rerouting of passengers or corresponding delays, which could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are obliged to adopt new accounting standards that may materially change our financial statements and financial reporting. We currently prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with French GAAP and prepare a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity, net income and certain other disclosures to U.S. GAAP. E.U. regulations require that all companies whose securities are listed in the European Union, including Air France-KLM, must apply International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in preparing their financial statements for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2005. Our financial statements for the first quarter of the financial year ending on March 31, 2006 will be published in accordance with IFRS. In order to establish comparative information for our IFRS financial statements to be published for the year ended March 31, 2006, we have prepared an opening balance sheet as at April 1, 2004, the date at which the impact of the transition will be recorded in shareholders’ equity. In accordance with the recommendations of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) relative to financial communication during the transition period, we decided to present the quantifiable impact of the transition to IFRS on our financial position and performance for the year ended March 31, 2005, on the basis of currently available estimates. These transition accounts have been submitted to the SEC on Form 6-K on June 29, 2005. The preliminary IFRS information is based on IRFS standards and interpretations of the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) that are currently known, as well as assumption regarding the future interpretation of IFRS by the IASB in areas where there is not yet any definitive interpretation. As a result, the definitive IFRS financial data for the year ended March 31, 2005 14 Table of Contents that we will publish with our March 31, 2006 financial statements may differ from the IFRS transition accounts as submitted. For a discussion of the main impacts of the transition to IFRS on our consolidated financial statements, see Form 6-K submitted to the SEC on June 29, 2005. Applying these standards to our financial statements have an effect on a number of areas, including, among others, accounting for share-based compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, asset depreciation and classification of balance sheet positions as debt or equity. Principal differences in accounting methods relate particularly to the first application of international financial information standards (IFRS 1), deferred taxes (IAS 12), investments in associates (IAS 28), consolidation and separate financial statements (IAS 27) and business combinations (IFRS 3). Because our financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS differ from financial statements prepared in accordance with French GAAP, the methods used by the financial community to assess our financial performance and value publicly-traded securities, such as price-to-earnings ratios and debts-to-equity ratios, could be affected. Risks Related to our Securities Substantial sales of our shares or ADSs, or the issuance by us of equity-linked securities, could cause the price of our shares, ADSs, warrants and ADWs to decline. The number of our shares available for sale or trading in the public markets has increased or may increase as a result of the exchange offer and the following other factors: • on December 9, 2004, the French State sold part of its shareholding in Air France-KLM, which, together with the completion of the related employee offering in April 2005, reduced its stake in the capital of Air France-KLM to less than 20%, and • shares representing 9.4% of the current share capital of Air France-KLM held in Air France-KLM savings plans on behalf of employee shareholders became eligible for sale from May 2004 by those employee shareholders. In addition, on April 19, 2005, Air France completed an offering of €449,999,989.50 principal amount of 2.75% bonds due April 1, 2020 convertible into and exchangeable for new and/or existing shares of Air France-KLM. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Other Significant Developments After March 31, 2005”. A total of 21,951,219 Air France-KLM shares may be issued upon conversion or exchange. The increase in the number of our shares eligible for sale or trading, or the perception that sales may occur, could adversely affect the market or the market price of our shares, ADSs, warrants and ADWs. In addition, we may in the future issue equity-linked securities to finance its operations. This could adversely affect the market for, or the market price of, our shares, ADSs, warrants and ADWs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the dollar and the euro may reduce the dollar market value of our ADSs as well as the dollar value of any dividends that we may pay. We will pay any cash dividends on our shares in euro, and the ADS depositary will convert such euro amounts into dollars to pay any dividends on the ADSs. Exchange rate movements will affect the dollar value of these dividends as well as any other dollar distributions paid to you if you hold ADSs. Exchange rate movements will also affect the market value of our ADSs and ADWs. Our interest in KLM may be diluted. The State of the Netherlands may exercise an option to acquire the number of KLM preference shares B necessary to provide the State of the Netherlands with 50.1% of the capital stock and voting rights of KLM, 15 Table of Contents irrespective of the total issued share capital of KLM at any given moment in the event that any key country served by KLM restricts, terminates or will restrict or terminate KLM’s operation of scheduled air services because of that country’s view that: • a substantial part of the share capital of KLM is not demonstrably Dutch-owned, or • KLM is not effectively controlled by Dutch nationals. If the State of the Netherlands exercises this option, it will have the power, acting alone, to influence matters submitted for a vote of KLM shareholders. The amended state option has an initial duration of three years from completion of the offer but may be renewed by the State of the Netherlands up to three times for periods of 12 months each. The State of the Netherlands agreed to exercise the voting rights attached to the preference shares B acquired upon any exercise of the amended state option in accordance with the best interests of KLM and the best interests of Air France-KLM and our shareholders. However, any determination made by the State of the Netherlands as to the best interests of KLM, us and our shareholders might not correspond to our views or the views of our shareholders as to such interests. In addition, any dispute involving the State of the Netherlands, France and a government of a key country served by KLM under the relevant bilateral treaty over Dutch ownership or under certain bilateral treaties, effective control of KLM, could divert management attention and have an impact on our business. Because we are subject to nationality-based ownership and control restrictions, non-European Union nationals, and in some cases, European Union nationals, may be compelled to sell our shares or ADSs. To hold a license and an Air Operator Certificate allowing them to operate scheduled airline services on European routes, European airlines, including Air France and KLM, must at all times be majority owned and effectively controlled by E.U. nationals. In addition, applicable bilateral air traffic treaties with non-E.U. countries typically require that the air carriers designated by each country to operate the routes covered by the relevant bilateral treaty be substantially- or majority-owned and effectively controlled by that country or its nationals. Either country that is a party to a bilateral treaty may withdraw or amend the terms and conditions of the operating authorization of an air carrier designated by the other country if the air carrier does not satisfy these ownership and control requirements. Our interest in KLM may be diluted as a consequence of the application of these requirements to KLM as explained in this annual report under the heading “—Risks Related to the Business—Our interest in KLM may be diluted”. In addition, in order to protect our authority to operate airline services in Europe and under relevant bilateral treaties, our articles of association, and the deposit agreement relating to our ADSs, contain compulsory transfer provisions whereby non-E.U. and, in certain cases, E.U. nationals, may be forced to sell all or part of their Air France-KLM shares or ADSs if 45% or more of our share capital or voting rights are held, directly or indirectly, by non-French nationals. See “Item 10: Additional Information—Form and Holding of Shares—Compulsory Transfer of Shares” and “Item 10: Additional Information—American Depositary Shares—Limitations on the Right to Own, Transfer or Vote Air France-KLM ADSs; Compulsory Transfer of Air France-KLM Shares”. If you fail to comply with the notification requirements under French law and our articles of association, you could be deprived of some or all of your voting rights and be subject to a fine. Holders of our shares, including shares represented by ADSs, are subject to various notification requirements under our articles of association and French law. Under the French Commercial Code, any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others that becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of more 16 Table of Contents than 5%, 10%, 20%, 33.3%, 50% or 66.6% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must notify Air France-KLM and the French Authority for Financial Markets within five trading days of crossing any of these thresholds. This notification requirement also applies to shareholders when their holding of shares or voting rights falls below any of these thresholds. If you fail to comply with these notification requirements, your shares, including shares represented by ADSs, in excess of the relevant notification threshold may be deprived of voting rights for up to two years on the demand of any shareholder or group of shareholders holding a minimum of 5% of our outstanding shares or voting rights. In addition, all or part of your voting rights may be suspended for up to five years by a French commercial court, and you may be subject to a fine of €18,000 at the request of the chairman of our board of directors, any Air France-KLM shareholder or the French Authority for Financial Markets. In addition, under our articles of association, any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others that becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 0.5% of our outstanding shares or voting rights or a multiple thereof up to 50% must notify us within 15 calendar days of crossing the ownership threshold. If you fail to comply with this notification requirement, your shares, including shares represented by ADSs, may be deprived of voting rights for up to two years on the demand of any one or more shareholders owning, together, at least 0.5% of our share capital. For a more detailed description of these notification requirements, see “Item 10: Additional Information—Requirements Applicable to Shareholdings Exceeding Certain Percentages” and “Item 10: Additional Information—American Depositary Shares—Requirements Applicable to Shareholders Exceeding Certain Percentages”. Holders of our ADSs may have difficulty exercising some of their rights as shareholders. The ADS depositary may use discretion to take action or exercise rights on behalf of each ADS holder in a number of circumstances, including the exercise of rights that holders of ADSs may have to subscribe for or acquire new Air France-KLM shares. In addition, holders of our ADSs will only be able to exercise their voting rights by instructing the ADS depositary to vote on their behalf, and, therefore, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for holders of our ADSs than for holders of our shares. For this reason, a deadline will be set by the ADS depositary by which it must receive voting instructions from all our ADS holders. The ADS depositary will not exercise voting rights with regard to any ADSs for which it does not receive voting instructions by the deadline. See “Item 10: Additional Information—American Depositary Shares—Voting Rights”. Under French law, holders of our securities have limited rights to call shareholders’ meetings or to submit shareholder proposals, which could adversely affect their ability to participate in our governance. In general, under French law, only our board of directors may call a meeting of shareholders. In limited circumstances, a shareholders’ meeting may be called by an attorney appointed by a court at the request of the holders of 5% or more of Air France-KLM’s capital stock or a duly qualified group of shareholders who have held their shares in registered form for at least two years and together hold at least 1% of Air France-KLM’s voting rights. In addition, only shareholders or groups of shareholders representing at least 5% of Air France’s share capital may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. As a result, the ability of holders of our shares to participate in and influence our governance is limited. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to file less information with the SEC, which may limit the information available to holders of our securities. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for the solicitation of proxies for shareholder meetings. In addition, our officers, 17 Table of Contents directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act are required to file their reports. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about Air France-KLM than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the United States. Our ADS and ordinary share price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly and investors may not be able to sell their ADRs or ordinary shares at or above the price they paid. The price at which our ADSs and ordinary shares trade may be influenced by a large number of factors, some of which will be related to the airline industry and equity markets generally. As a result of these factors, investors may not be able to resell their ADSs or ordinary shares at or above the price which they paid for them. In particular, the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares: • Announcements by us of intended acquisitions, disposals or financings or speculation about such acquisitions, disposals or financings; • Sales of blocks of our shares by significant shareholders; • Potential litigation involving us or the airline industry generally; • Changes in recommendations by securities research analysts; • Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and fuel prices; • The performance of other companies in the airline sector; • Regulatory developments in the principal markets in which we operate; • International political and economic conditions, including the effects of terrorist attacks, military operations and other developments stemming from such events and the uncertainty related to these developments; and • General economic and market conditions. 18 Table of Contents Item 4: INFORMATION ON THE COMPANY History of Air France-KLM The key dates in the Air France-KLM combination were: September 30, 2003 Air France and KLM officially announce their combination by means of an exchange offer for all outstanding KLM common shares in exchange for Air France shares and Air France warrants, including Air France shares in the form of ADSs and Air France warrants in the form of ADWs. October 16, 2003 Air France and KLM finalize the combination agreements including specific agreements between Air France and the former shareholders of KLM, including the Dutch State. February 11, 2004 Approvals for the combination are granted by the European and American antitrust authorities. March 29, 2004 Approval for the combination is granted by the French Commission on Holdings and Transfers (Commission des participations et des transferts). April 5, 2004 Air France commences its exchange offer for all outstanding KLM common shares. May 5, 2004 Air France shares are admitted to official listing on Euronext Amsterdam. Air France ADSs and ADWs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. September 15, 2004 Hive down to transfer all the assets and liabilities of Air France, with the exception of treasury shares and Alitalia and KLM shares, to Air France-Compagnie Aérienne, a subsidiary company that changed its name to Air France. Reorganization of the group structure under Air France-KLM, a holding company for two principal operating subsidiary airlines, Air France and KLM. Our corporate existence will continue, subject to dissolution or prolongation, until July 3, 2045. Our registered office is located at 2, rue Robert Esnault-Pelterie, 75007 Paris, France and our telephone number is +33 1 41 56 75 14. Our postal address is 45, rue de Paris, 75747 Roissy CDG Cedex, France. We have designated Air France as our agent in the United States located at 125 West 55th Street, New York, NY 10019. The Combination with KLM and the Exchange Offer On October 16, 2003, Air France entered into the framework agreement with KLM in which Air France agreed to combine with KLM around the concept of “one group, two airlines”. The framework agreement provided for, among other things, an exchange offer for all KLM common shares, the establishment of an administered shareholding structure intended to protect KLM’s international air traffic rights during an interim period of three years, the conduct of a “hive down”, whereby Air France has incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary into which the assets, liabilities, businesses and operations of société Air France have been transferred, KLM’s admission into the SkyTeam alliance and corporate governance arrangements for Air France-KLM. As a result of the combination, the French State no longer owns a majority of our share capital. On April 5, 2004, Air France commenced its exchange offer for all of the outstanding KLM common shares, including KLM common shares in the form of ordinary shares and New York registry shares. Upon closing of the subsequent offer period on May 21, 2004, holders of KLM common shares had tendered a total of 45,093,299 KLM common shares, representing approximately 96.33% of KLM’s common 19 Table of Contents shares. Air France was effectively privatized as a result of the issuance of new Air France shares in the exchange offer, as the ownership of the French State was reduced to 44.7%. A limited number of KLM common shareholders who had not tendered in the exchange offer subsequently contacted us offering to sell their shares. We have entered into a number of privately negotiated transactions after which we currently hold 97.3% of the economic rights and 49% of the nominal share capital and voting rights in KLM. Pursuant to the framework agreement, Air France also purchased all of KLM’s outstanding priority shares, which give Air France certain special governance rights in KLM, and purchased depositary receipts representing all of KLM’s cumulative preference shares C. In addition, Air France entered into agreements entitling Air France-KLM to acquire cumulative preference shares A in KLM at the same time and in the same proportion that the French State reduces its shareholding in Air France-KLM, or more rapidly at the discretion of the State of the Netherlands. The Administered Shareholding To permit the combination and with the aim of preserving KLM’s air traffic rights during an interim period of three years, Air France and KLM entered into administered shareholding arrangements with the State of the Netherlands. Under these arrangements, our direct ownership of, and voting rights in, KLM are, for a period of three years, limited to 49% of KLM’s nominal share capital. Air France-KLM currently directly owns all of KLM’s priority shares and a number of KLM common shares representing, together with the KLM priority shares, 49% of KLM’s nominal share capital and voting rights. In addition, Air France-KLM owns depositary receipts representing KLM common shares tendered in the exchange offer in excess of 49% of the nominal share capital and voting rights of KLM. These depositary receipts carry the economic rights, but not the voting rights, of the underlying KLM common shares. The underlying KLM common shares are held by Stichting Administratiekantoor KLM (SAK I), a foundation incorporated under Dutch law. Air France-KLM also owns depositary receipts representing KLM’s cumulative preference shares C. These depositary receipts carry the economic rights, but not the voting rights, of the underlying cumulative preference shares C. The underlying cumulative preference shares C are held by Stichting Administratiekantoor Cumulatief Preferente Aandelen C KLM (SAK II), another foundation incorporated under Dutch law. Each of SAK I and SAK II are managed by a board of three independent persons, one of whom was appointed by Air France, one by KLM and a chairman was appointed jointly by the appointees of Air France and KLM. A majority of the board members of each foundation, including the chairman, are Dutch nationals and residents. The decisions of each foundation’s board must be by unanimous consent. As of the date of this annual report, the State of the Netherlands owns KLM cumulative preference shares A equal to 5.9% of the voting rights in KLM. The State of the Netherlands has agreed to decrease its ownership in KLM proportionally to any decrease of the French State’s ownership in Air France-KLM, by selling and transferring the relevant cumulative preference shares A to Air France-KLM or, if the transfer occurs before May 6, 2007, to SAK I, which in turn shall issue the corresponding depository receipts to Air France-KLM. If it chooses, the State of the Netherlands may sell and transfer, and Air France-KLM will be obligated to buy, cumulative preference shares A in addition to those required by any decrease in the French State shareholding. After May 6, 2007, Air France-KLM will be able to purchase cumulative preference shares A from the State of the Netherlands directly. Air France-KLM may, at its sole discretion, retain this or a different form of administered shareholding arrangements after May 6, 2007. 20 Table of Contents The following chart sets forth the current structure of Air France-KLM at the date of this annual report: The Hive Down On September 15, 2004, Air France transferred its assets, liabilities, businesses and operations to a wholly-owned subsidiary in the hive down. In the same meeting, Air France changed its corporate name to Air France-KLM. Immediately thereafter, shareholders of the wholly-owned subsidiary approved the transfer of such assets, liabilities, businesses and operations to it and approved the issuance of shares to Air France-KLM in connection therewith. In the same meeting, the wholly-owned subsidiary changed its corporate name to société Air France. The hive down enables the wholly-owned subsidiary (under its new name société Air France) to carry out the businesses and operations previously conducted by Air France prior to the hive down. We envisage that the combined group will ultimately be structured as one listed holding company, Air France-KLM, holding 100% of the nominal share capital and voting rights in two principal operating subsidiaries, Air France and KLM, as set forth in the chart below: 21 Table of Contents Intergovernmental Declaration of Understanding The French State and the State of the Netherlands signed an intergovernmental declaration of understanding on October 16, 2003 acknowledging the importance of Roissy-CDG and Schiphol airports and declaring that the two countries will take into account the establishment of Air France-KLM in formulating airport policy and, more broadly, civil aviation policy. The two States have agreed to inform each other of air services negotiations of common interest with non-E.U. countries, consult with each other on developments of common interest in European civil aviation policy (specifically air transport relations with non-E.U. countries) and provide mutual assistance in the event of major difficulties with non-E.U. countries, particularly where airline traffic rights could be jeopardized due to changes in capital structure or due to an obstacle to commercial market access. According to the declaration, a committee chaired by the French and Dutch Directors-General of Civil Aviation will meet regularly to supervise the process of mutual information and coordination. In the declaration, the French State committed, among other things, to reduce its shareholding in Air France-KLM, in one or more stages, to less than 20%, as soon as market conditions permit. The French State also undertook to vote its Air France-KLM shares in favor of the nomination to the Air France-KLM board of directors of a representative of the State of the Netherlands as long as it will have its own representative(s) on the Air France-KLM board of directors. In addition, both countries have agreed to reduce their equity participation in Air France-KLM, in the case of the French State, and in KLM, in the case of the State of the Netherlands, by a similar proportion over time, although the State of the Netherlands may reduce its shareholding more rapidly. KLM, Air France and the State of the Netherlands have agreed separately that Air France and KLM shall ensure that the place of effective management of KLM’s existing transport enterprise will be retained in the Netherlands for purposes of Dutch tax and the France-Netherlands double taxation convention at least until the bilateral treaty is ratified or the current convention is amended. Assurances and Assurances Foundation Air France and KLM granted assurances to the State of the Netherlands to preserve the network quality of KLM at Schiphol airport, while taking into account the best interests of Air France-KLM and its shareholders. The assurances granted to the State of the Netherlands have a term of five or eight years from May 6, 2004, depending on the assurance in question. In particular, the State of the Netherlands has agreed that each of Air France and KLM will remain an airline company operating from its home base in France and the Netherlands respectively and that each will retain its air operation certificate and operating licenses and will continue to fulfill the conditions necessary to maintain such licenses. In addition the State of the Netherlands has agreed to maintain KLM’s current portfolio of air traffic rights, other than those that have not been used by KLM for a period of 12 months. Air France and KLM also agreed to various assurances to preserve their respective long-term interests, while taking into account the best interests of Air France-KLM and its shareholders. These assurances have a term until May 6, 2009, but will be evaluated after May 6, 2007. In particular, the combined group has committed to maintain and ensure a fair long-term development of international and intercontinental services on overlapping routes to and from both Roissy-CDG and Schiphol airports. Air France and KLM’s commitment to fair capacity development of both hubs includes a commitment that neither Air France nor KLM will change a unique passenger destination into a destination served by both hubs, unless certain conditions are met. In addition, Air France and KLM agreed to make investments, when economically justified, in both the cargo and passenger businesses at both Roissy-CDG and Schiphol airports. Air France and KLM have established a foundation in the Netherlands to facilitate compliance with both sets of assurances. The foundation will, if requested to do so, render binding advice regarding possible contraventions of the assurances by Air France or KLM. 22 Table of Contents Tripartite Alliance Coordination Agreement On September 30, 2003, Air France, KLM and Alitalia entered into a tripartite agreement listing the conditions and principles under which Air France, KLM and Alitalia will conduct a three-way commercial alliance. Air France, Alitalia and KLM intend to establish a cargo partnership to integrate their cargo business and activities. Discussions among the parties are currently ongoing. Corporate Governance Arrangements In the framework agreement, Air France and KLM agreed to an extensive set of principles that will apply to the corporate governance and organization of Air France-KLM, including the establishment of the strategic management committee. For further information on our management structure, see “Item 6: Directors, Senior Management and Employees”. History of Air France The main stages in the development of Air France were: 1933 Air France is born out of the combination of five French airlines. 1945 Air France is nationalized. 1946 The Paris-New York service is inaugurated with a DC4 and a flight time of 23 hours and 45 minutes. 1959-1960 The first Caravelle and Boeing 707 aircraft are brought into service, with the latter model reducing the time of the Paris-New York service to 8 hours. 1976 Concorde is commissioned, first on the Paris-Rio, Paris-Caracas and Paris-Washington routes and then Paris-New York the following year, connecting the two cities in 3 hours and 45 minutes. 1990 Air France acquires UTA, founded in 1963. 1992 Air France and UTA merge, giving Air France a 72% stake in Air Inter after combining its own interest in this company with that of UTA. 1996 Air Inter becomes Air France Europe. 1997 Air France Europe is merged with Air France. 1999 Air France is successfully floated, with the participation of 2.4 million private individuals, international institutional investors and 72% of staff. Air France is listed on the Monthly Settlement Market for the first time on February 22, 1999. 2000 SkyTeam and SkyTeam Cargo are launched. Air France is a founding member of these alliances alongside Aéromexico, Delta and Korean. The regional division is created following the acquisition of Régional Airlines, Flandre Air, Porteus, Brit Air and CityJet. 2001 The “Open Sky” agreement is concluded between France and the United States. Alitalia and CSA join the SkyTeam. 2002 SkyTeam is the only alliance in the world to benefit from anti-trust immunity on its transatlantic and transpacific flights. 2003 Air France celebrates its 70th anniversary. 2004 The Air France-KLM group is created, cementing its position as the European air transport market leader. Air France is privatized following the transfer of the majority of its shares to the private sector as a result of the public exchange offer on KLM. 23 Table of Contents History of KLM The main stages in the development of KLM were: 1919 KLM is founded as the royal Dutch airline for the Netherlands and its Colonies. 1924 KLM runs its first intercontinental flight from Amsterdam to Jakarta. 1934 KLM offers its first transatlantic service from Amsterdam to Curaçao using a Fokker FXVIII Snip. 1946 KLM inaugurates a regular service between Amsterdam and New York. 1958 KLM completes its first flight to Japan flying over the North Pole. 1989 KLM concludes an alliance with Northwest Airlines. 2002 KLM announces the renewal of its fleet, with the arrival of the Boeing B747-400ER Freighter, the Boeing B777-200ER and the Airbus A330-200. 2004 KLM and Air France announce the conclusion of an agreement to create Europe’s leading Airline group. KLM, Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines join the SkyTeam alliance in September 2004. Key events of Air France-KLM during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 Our financial year ended March 31, 2005 was marked by the following key events: • The combination of Air France and KLM took effect on May 3, 2004. The structure of the new group was finalized on September 15, 2004, with the establishment of Air France-KLM. • The financial year ended March 31, 2005 was characterized by strong activity within a difficult but improving economic context which was marked by a continuing appreciation of the euro against our other principal currencies, particularly the dollar. • The price of oil rose continually during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 to reach historic levels, with a price per barrel of U.S.$55.65 (International Petroleum Exchange (IPE) price for Brent crude) at March 31, 2005. Air France and KLM each implemented fuel surcharges to offset a portion of the additional fuel costs. • The departure area in terminal 2E at Roissy-CDG collapsed on May 23, 2004, forcing Air France to reroute its flights to the other five terminals at Roissy-CDG. Despite the unavailability of the facilities in terminal 2E, Air France maintained its flight schedule as originally planned by relying on the remainder of the airport’s facilities. • In September 2004, KLM and its two American partners, Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines, became members of the SkyTeam alliance, making the alliance the second largest in the world for passengers, with a market share of 22% (International Air Transport Association (IATA), December 2003) and the world’s leading alliance in cargo. Other Significant Developments After March 31, 2005 Amadeus GTD During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France, Iberia Líneas Aéreas de España S.A., Deutsche Lufthansa AG (through its subsidiary Lufthansa Commercial Holdings GmbH) and Amadelux Investment S.A. 24 Table of Contents initiated negotiations with private equity funds in order to launch a public offer for class A shares of Amadeus Global Travel Distribution, S.A. through a newly incorporated company, Wam Acquisition S.A. The offer commenced on May 25, 2005 and closed on June 27, 2005. The offer was accepted by 94.73% of the shares to which the bid was addressed, resulting in Wam Acquisition, S.A. holding a total of 95.08% of the class A shares and 98.74% of the total share capital of Amadeus GTD. Following the offer, Air France, through Wam Acquisition S.A., indirectly holds 22.96% and Air France together with Iberia Líneas Aéreas de España S.A., Deutsche Lufthansa AG (through its subsidiary Lufthansa Commercial Holdings GmbH), through Wam Acquisition S.A., indirectly hold 45.92% of Amadeus GTD. The consideration offered by Wam Acquisition S.A. amounts to €7.35 per class A share of Amadeus. This price represents a 49.4% premium with regard to the closing price of Amadeus shares on the last trading day prior to August 17, 2004, the date on which the first relevant fact informing the market on the interest of several investors in Amadeus was published. This transaction will allow Air France to remain a shareholder of Amadeus and to earn gross cash income of approximately €800 million. Air France–KLM Share Plan for Employees In February 2005, the French State sold 8,414,273 Air France–KLM shares to eligible employees, in an offering reserved exclusively for such employees, and 12,612,671 Air France–KLM shares to the employees of Air France in a shares-for-salary exchange. These shares were delivered in March 2005 and April 2005, respectively. See “Item 6: Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Air France—Employee Share Arrangements” and “Item 7: Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Ownership of our Shares—Significant Changes”. Sale of KLM Shares by the State of the Netherlands In accordance with the terms of intergovernmental declaration of understanding between the French State and the State of the Netherlands signed on October 16, 2003, the State of the Netherlands executed a deed to transfer 5,103,855 KLM cumulative preference shares A to SAK I on April 5, 2005. See “—History of Air France-KLM—Intergovernmental Declaration of Understanding” above. Offering by Air France of bonds due April 1, 2020 convertible into and/or exchangeable for new and/or existing shares of Air France-KLM On April 22, 2005, Air France placed €450 million of bonds convertible and/or exchangeable for Air France-KLM shares (OCEANE). The 21,951,219 Air France bonds, with a unit face value of €20.50, give the right to the allotment of new and/or existing shares of Air France-KLM on the basis of one share per bond. This allotment may be made at any time from June 1, 2005 until March 25, 2020. The bonds will mature on April 1, 2020 and may be redeemed at par. The bonds have been listed for trading on the Eurolist market of Euronext Paris since April 22, 2005. Business of Air France-KLM For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, we prepared our financial information and presented our measures of operating performance on an Air France-KLM consolidated basis including the financial condition and results of operations or operating performance of KLM for 11 months, whereas, prior to the business combination with KLM, for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, such information was compiled separately by Air France and by KLM. To the extent financial information or operating data is presented for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, we have, where indicated, presented such information on a pro forma basis to enable a better appreciation of the financial or operating results that might have been achieved if the 25 Table of Contents closing date of the Air France-KLM exchange offer had taken effect on May 1, 2003. This information is included solely for illustrative purposes and, accordingly, does not necessarily reflect the combined operating data that Air France-KLM could have recorded on the dates or for the periods indicated. To the extent financial information or operating data is presented for the financial year ended March 31, 2003, such information is for Air France only. Introduction We are one of the largest airline groups in the world, ranking first worldwide in terms of international passengers carried as of December 31, 2003, according to IATA, and first among airlines in Europe in terms of traffic (revenue passenger-kilometers) for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, according to the Association of European Airlines (AEA), with an overall market share of 27.7%. The combination of Air France and KLM has also created a European and global leader in cargo activities. We currently rank second in the world (excluding integrators) in cargo activity, according to IATA. Air France and KLM are also active in the field of aircraft maintenance and are one of the world’s leading suppliers of maintenance services. Air France and KLM organize their networks around two main hubs at Roissy-CDG and Amsterdam Schiphol airports. Our core business of passenger transportation accounted for 78.6% of our total operating revenues of €19,078 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Cargo activities were 13.1% of total operating revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, industrial maintenance activities were 4.1% of total operating revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and other air transport-related activities were 4.2% of total operating revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. The financial year ended March 31, 2005 was marked by continued difficulties for the air transport sector. After unprecedented crises including the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the geopolitical tensions surrounding the war in Iraq, and the SARS epidemic in 2003, the sector worldwide has been affected by the sharp increase in oil prices since the spring of 2004. Despite the continued recovery in traffic in 2004, with growth worldwide of about 11% according to IATA, increased fuel costs have resulted in losses in the air transport sector of U.S.$5 billion during 2004. The air transport sector spent U.S.$62 billion on jet fuel in 2004, counteracting most cost-cutting efforts of individual airlines and the impact of the general economic recovery. According to IATA, the total losses of the international airline industry for the period 2001 to 2004 are expected to reach U.S.$36 billion, the equivalent of the total profits created from 1978 to 2000. Recent airline industry trends in the three main geographic zones — Europe, the United States and Asia — have nevertheless differed significantly. Asian airlines, after having suffered significantly diminished growth in 2003 as a result of the SARS epidemic, have strongly recovered due to the economic growth in this region. In the United States, most airlines have not been profitable since 2001. Confronted with structural problems, including significant wage increases in 2000 and 2001 and competition from low-cost companies which have conquered nearly 30% of the North American domestic market, U.S. airlines are facing higher fuel prices without the ability to implement hedging policies as in general their financial positions are too weak. According to IATA, between 2000 and 2002, debt of the leading American air carriers doubled from $27 billion to $56 billion. Despite federal assistance of several billion dollars and drastic cost-cutting plans and wage concessions, the U.S. air carriers accumulated $7 billion in losses in 2004 and experienced new record losses in the first quarter of 2005. 26 Table of Contents In Europe, airlines that are members of the AEA have benefited from the recovery in traffic after the SARS epidemic. During 2004, traffic grew 9.0% with a 7.3% increase in capacity. Slightly more than 307 million passengers, representing an increase of 4.8% over 2003, traveled to and from the 49 countries included within Europe as defined by the AEA. In 2003, the recovery differed depending on the airline in question. Non-U.S. airlines have also had some protection from rising fuel prices because of the weakness of the U.S. dollar, particularly against the euro. In recent years, the airline industry has seen the emergence of low-cost air carriers that typically engage in aggressive marketing and compete with all transportation carriers. In Europe, there were over 35 low-cost airlines in 2004, but there are two dominant low-cost airlines — Ryanair and easyJet — which have over 50% market share of the low-cost market segment. We believe that the growth of low-cost airlines has not occurred through a transfer of traffic from scheduled airlines but through the creation of a new market and the winning by low-cost airlines of a large percentage of the general growth in traffic among price-sensitive passengers. The European low cost airlines are present in the five major domestic markets (but unevenly so) and on intra-European routes, primarily from Great Britain to Germany, France and Italy. In the winter season 2004, 30% of low-cost flights were on domestic routes (16% in the United Kingdom, 8% in Germany and 1% in France) and 70% on intra-European routes, primarily from Great Britain to Germany, France and Italy. While low-cost airlines are present in the French domestic market, the strong presence of the French high speed rail network, as well as the Air France domestic shuttle, has limited the interest and impact of low cost airlines. easyJet is the only low-cost airline to operate flights from Paris to Toulouse and to Nice, where the high-speed train’s market share is less than 20%. In March 2005, easyJet terminated flights from Paris to Marseille, where the high-speed train’s market share is approximately 60%. Notwithstanding the continuing, difficult economic context in which we operate, we realized net income of €351 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. We believe that these results in a difficult environment evidence the efficient pursuit of our goal of profitable growth built around exploiting the synergies offered by the business combination of Air France and KLM, and controlling costs and improving productivity. Strategy Our strategy is based on the implementation of the synergies between Air France and KLM and on strict cost control. Exploiting the synergies offered by the business combination of Air France and KLM Air France and KLM have combined their businesses around the concept of “one group, two airlines”. The objective of this concept is to respect the identity, brand and cultures of the two airlines while achieving common results of operations. We believe that the similar business approaches of Air France and KLM to each of their core businesses of passengers, cargo and maintenance operations serve as a firm foundation for Air France-KLM. Prior to the business combination, we valued the synergies of the combination at €385 million to €495 million per year after five years following completion of the offer. The coordination of the operations and teams of Air France and KLM have accelerated the development of these synergies, which we revised upwards in September 2004. Initially estimated at €65 million to €75 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, the synergies were re-estimated at €90 million in September 2004. For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, the amount realized was €115 million. Each business segment has contributed to the generation of synergies for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Passenger activity has generated approximately €73 million in synergies, primarily as a result of adjustments in the long- and medium-haul networks and the implementation of combinable fares. Cargo has generated €12 million in synergies through an exchange of capacities and a streamlined network. Maintenance synergies totaled approximately €15 million and are related to savings on purchasing, growth in revenues, and the return of maintenance operations that were previously outsourced. 27 Table of Contents For the financial year ended March 31, 2006, the total amount of synergies is currently estimated at €280 million, compared with our initial estimate of a maximum of €135 million. At the end of the fifth year, we currently estimate that synergies should total €580 million, divided equally between cost synergies and revenue synergies. Complementary Hubs We expect to achieve substantial further synergies by coordinating flights at our two hubs, Roissy-CDG and Schiphol airports. We believe that the potential to expand capacity at the two airports will constitute a significant competitive advantage for Air France-KLM because customers will be able to select more destinations with better schedules and Air France and KLM will derive cost advantages from increased economies of scale. Complementary Passenger Operations We believe that Air France’s and KLM’s passenger operations are highly complementary, especially with respect to long-haul and medium-haul routes. Of a total of 101 long-haul destinations served by Air France and KLM as of March 31, 2004, only 31 were common to both Air France and KLM. We have retained most of these common long-haul destinations, as they are routes with significant traffic flow and can therefore be served by both Air France from Paris and KLM from Amsterdam. We have improved and intend to further improve service to passengers by improving the schedule and the frequencies of the flights. The combination has added 43 long-haul destinations to KLM’s network and 27 long-haul destinations to Air France’s network. With respect to the European market, Air France has a stronger presence in Southern Europe while KLM has a stronger presence in Northern Europe. We have improved and intend to further improve our business in Eastern Europe by taking advantage of synergies and efficiencies with respect to our passenger operations to Eastern European destinations. We believe that the combination of the Air France and KLM networks offers our passengers more destinations and better connections through full code sharing and the harmonization of flight schedules, the introduction of fare compatibility and the launching of a common frequent flyer program. We believe that, by coordinating the marketing efforts and sales structures of Air France and KLM, we have an enhanced global presence capable of targeting and serving a larger pool of potential passengers. Air France’s and KLM’s existing partnerships also complement each other, particularly in the United States, where SkyTeam partner Delta Airlines has an alliance with SkyTeam partners Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines. Complementary Cargo Businesses As in passenger operations, we believe that the combination enables us to create and benefit from an extensive network for our cargo services. We believe that as a result of the combination, we are the European leader in this sector. In addition, we believe that we benefit from significant efficiencies and cost savings in the cargo business through coordinated freighter planning and more efficient hub handling in the cargo sector. Complementary Aircraft Maintenance Activities Having combined Air France and KLM’s respective expertise and capabilities in aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul services, we are one of the world’s largest maintenance, repair and overhaul service providers in terms of operating revenues. Air France and KLM each enjoy strong relationships with major manufacturers of aircraft parts, including Airbus, Boeing and General Electric. We believe that we have sufficient scale and capacity to build on those relationships and meet the maintenance requirements of the major global airlines, with capabilities to service the principal Airbus and Boeing products. 28 Table of Contents Controlling Costs and Improving Productivity To meet the challenges of an industry in which unbalanced cost structures have adversely affected a number of airlines, we continue to place a major strategic focus on controlling costs and improving productivity. To this end, Air France has implemented a series of three-year cost-saving programs and KLM has implemented a continuing restructuring plan. Air France’s first cost-savings program was implemented in 1998 and succeeded in reducing operating costs by an aggregate approximately €457 million over a three-year period. In April 2001, Air France implemented its second program, the Performance 2003 Plan (Plan Performance 2003), which ended on March 31, 2004. The Performance 2003 Plan aimed at reducing unit costs over a three-year period by 5% (operating costs in an aggregate of €280 million). This goal was exceeded as operating costs were reduced by €300 million. Air France implemented its latest three-year cost cutting program in April 2004. The objective of the new cost-savings plan (Compétitivité Major 2007) is to improve unit costs over a three-year period by 6% (operating costs in an aggregate of €600 million). The Compétitivité Major 2007 cost-savings program focuses on distribution costs, the introduction of a new European medium-haul product and enhanced productivity. As at March 31, 2005, Air France achieved its goal of €200 million in savings principally through the reorganization of the medium-haul fleet (€47 million) and the optimization of purchasing and external costs (€100 million). A target of €590 million in savings has been set which should be derived from the continued restructuring of the medium-haul product (for an estimated €45 million in savings), the reorganization of the medium-haul network (for an estimated €50 million in savings) and the changeover to zero commission paid to travel agencies (for an estimated €260 million in savings), a portion of which will be passed on to passengers in the form of fare reductions. Finally, measures will also be taken to boost productivity, including, for example, the development of automatic check-in, improved productivity related to the gradual implementation of the Nouveau Espaces de Voyages (New Travel Spaces) on long-haul flights and optimizing the ratio of number of seats per cabin crew member. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, KLM continued the restructuring plan that it initiated in the financial year ended March 31, 2004, with a target of €650 million in savings for the financial year ended March 31, 2006. The plan includes changes in procedures, improved productivity (in particular, with the replacement of the long-haul fleet), savings on purchases and the elimination of 4,500 jobs. Under the restructuring plan, KLM achieved savings of €200 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. KLM achieved further savings of €520 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, €50 million below the amount budgeted for the year. Additionally, we continued our oil hedging policy which enabled us to achieve hedging gains of €375 million during the financial year ended March 31, 2005. For the financial years ended March 31, 2006 and 2007, we have already hedged 81% and 45%, respectively, of our estimated consumption on the basis of a fuel price of U.S.$565 and U.S.$562 per ton. Organizational Structure Our significant subsidiaries are as follows: Subsidiary Jurisdiction ofOrganization Head Office % of Interest % of VotingRights société Air France France Roissy-CDG, France 100 100 KLM the Netherlands Amstelveen, the Netherlands 97.3 49 29 Table of Contents société Air France’s significant subsidiaries are as follows: Subsidiary Jurisdiction ofOrganization Head Office % of Interest % of VotingRights Air France Finance France Roissy-CDG, France 100 100 Brit Air France Morlaix, France 100 100 CityJet Ireland Dublin, Ireland 100 100 Régional Compagnie Aerienne Européenne France Bouguenais, France 100 100 Servair France Roissy-CDG, France 98 98 None of KLM’s subsidiaries qualifies as a significant subsidiary as defined in SEC Regulation S-X. Principal Activities of Air France-KLM Our three main businesses are passenger transportation, cargo operations and maintenance operations. Our other activities are related to air transport, and include principally catering and KLM’s charter subsidiary transavia.com. The charts below show the division of our operating revenues for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, and 2003 (Air France only) from the different parts of the business: Year ended March 31, 2005Air France-KLM 2004 Pro forma 2004Air Francepublished 2003Air Francepublished (in € millions, except percentages) Passenger 15,004 80.0 % 14,044 78.6 % 10,260 83.2 % 10,527 83.0 % Cargo 2,492 12.8 % 2,277 13.1 % 1,412 11.4 % 1,479 11.7 % Maintenance 777 4.2 % 747 4.1 % 508 4.1 % 540 4.3 % Other 805 4.0 % 714 4.2 % 157 1.3 % 141 1.1 % Total 19,078 100.0 % 17,782 100 % 12,337 100 % 12,687 100.0 % Passenger Operations Air transport services for passengers are our largest revenue source, generating revenues of €15,004 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, representing 78.6% of consolidated revenues, an increase of 6.8% compared to the previous year’s €14,044 million on a pro forma basis (€10,260 million on a published basis), despite a negative currency impact of 1.4%. Operating income grew 13.9% from €274 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis (€67 million on a published basis) to €312 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Our scheduled passenger operations generated revenues of €14,085 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. The remainder of the group’s revenues from passenger operations are provided by commissions from sales of SkyTeam alliance members’ flights and revenues from code sharing revenues, and receipts from baggage handling and information systems services. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, we operated an average of 2,350 flights per day to 225 destination cities and carried 64.1 million passengers. Through our membership in SkyTeam and its partnerships with approximately 30 airlines, our customers may access a global network of approximately 18,000 flights and 900 destinations. 30 Table of Contents The following table shows the breakdown of passenger transportation on scheduled flights between long-haul and medium-haul, together with the load factors, for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, and 2003 (Air France only) and the change between such periods: Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004Pro forma Change 2004 Air Francepublished 2003 Air Francepublished (in millions, except percentages and point changes in load factor) Long-haul: Capacity (ASK)(1) 163,216 151,662 7.6 % 97,317 95,483 Traffic (RPK)(2) 134,331 122,163 10.0 % 77,682 76,721 Load factor (RPK/ASK) 82.3 80.5 % 1.8 79.8 80.4 % Medium-haul: Capacity (ASK)(1) 51,390 49,086 4.7 % 37,127 35,764 Traffic (RPK)(2) 34,667 32,975 5.1 % 23,962 23,239 Load factor (RPK/ASK) 67.5 67.2 % 0.3 64.5 65.0 % Total: Capacity (ASK)(1) 214,606 200,748 6.9 % 134,444 131,247 Traffic (RPK)(2) 168,998 155,138 8.9 % 101,644 99,960 Load factor (RPK/ASK) 78.7 77.3 % 1.5 75.6 76.2 % Notes: (1) Available seat-kilometers. See “—Definitions and industry terms”. (2) Revenue passenger-kilometers. See “—Definitions and industry terms”. The following table below shows scheduled passenger revenues by destination and the percentage of total scheduled passenger revenues by destination for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, and 2003 (Air France only) and the change between such periods: Scheduled Passenger Revenue by Destination Year ended March 31, 2005Air France-KLM 2004 Pro forma 2004Air Francepublished 2003Air Francepublished (in € millions, except percentages) % oftotal % oftotal %change % oftotal % oftotal Europe and North Africa 6,044 42.9 % 5,794 44.0 % 4.3 % 4,525 47.8 % 4,481 46.2 % Caribbean and Indian Ocean 1,124 8.0 % 1,215 9.2 % (7.5 )% 1,023 10.8 % 994 10.2 % Africa and Middle East 1,920 13.6 % 1,752 13.3 % 9.6 % 1,058 11.2 % 1,098 11.3 % North and Latin America 2,939 20.9 % 2,708 20.6 % 8.5 % 1,850 19.5 % 1,966 20.2 % Asia 2,058 14.6 % 1,687 12.9 % 22 % 1,009 10.7 % 1,174 12.1 % Scheduled passenger revenues 14,085 100.0 % 13,156 100.0 % 7.1 % 9,465 100.0 % 9,713 100.0 % Other passenger revenues 919 889 2.3 % 795 814 Total passenger revenues 15,004 14,045 6.8 % 10,260 10,527 31 Table of Contents The table below shows scheduled passenger revenues by area of sale and the percentage of total scheduled passenger revenues by area of sale for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, and 2003 (Air France only) and the change between such periods: Scheduled Passenger Revenue by Area of Sale(1) Year ended March 31, 2005Air France-KLM 2004 Pro forma 2004Air Francepublished 2003Air Francepublished (in € millions, except percentages) % oftotal % oftotal %change % oftotal % oftotal Europe (including France) 9,711 68.8 % 9,078 69.0 % 64.7 % 6,734 71.1 % 6,689 68.8 % Caribbean and Indian Ocean 348 2.5 % 390 2.9 % 2.8 % 348 3.7 % 340 3.5 % Africa and Middle East 937 6.7 % 895 6.8 % 6.4 % 577 6.1 % 598 6.2 % North and Latin America 1,994 14.2 % 1,785 13.6 % 12.7 % 1,169 12.4 % 1,329 13.7 % Asia 1,095 7.8 % 1,008 7.7 % 7.2 % 637 6.7 % 757 7.8 % Scheduled passenger revenues 14,085 100 % 13,156 100.0 % 73.7 % 9,465 100.0 % 9,713 100.0 % Other passenger revenues 919 889 6.3 % 795 814 Total passenger revenues 15,004 14,045 100.0 % 10,260 10,527 Notes: (1) Origin of sale is determined on the basis of ticket issuing locations. The Long-Haul Network Our long-haul network consists of 112 destinations in 89 countries, including 27 destinations operated by KLM alone and 43 operated by Air France alone. One-third of the destinations have sufficiently high volume traffic that they are served by both Air France and KLM. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, the long-haul network reported strong growth, with an increase of 9.7% on a pro forma basis in passengers carried to 18.8 million. During the same period, the long haul network represented 76.0% of capacities (as compared to 75.5% on a pro forma basis during the financial year ended March 31, 2004) and approximately 80% of traffic (as compared to approximately 79% on a pro forma basis during the financial year ended March 31, 2004). For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, revenues from our long-haul passenger traffic were €8.04 billion, an increase of 9.5% on a pro forma basis over such revenues during the financial year ended March 31, 2004, and represented 57.1% of total scheduled passenger revenues, an increase of 1.3% on a pro forma basis compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004. During the same period, total long-haul capacity grew by 7.6% on a pro forma basis and traffic rose 10.0% on a pro forma basis, while the load factor increased 1.8 points to 82.3%. The table below shows the volume of long-haul capacity, traffic and load factor by geographical area during the financial year ended March 31, 2005, and the change in these operating measures as compared to the previous financial year on a pro forma basis: Capacity(1) Traffic(2) Load factor(3) Volume Change(4) Volume Change(4) % Change(4) (in millions, except percentages) North and South America 62,646 5.0 % 53,584 8.5 % 85.5 % 2.8 Asia 43,323 21.1 % 35,306 23.1 % 81.5 % 1.3 Africa and Middle East 28,831 7.0 % 22,459 8.5 % 77.9 % 1.0 Caribbean and Indian Ocean 28,416 (2.9 )% 22,983 (1.7 )% 80.9 % 1.0 32 Table of Contents Notes: (1) Available seat-kilometers (ASK). (2) Revenue passenger-kilometers (RPK). (3) RPK/ASK. (4) On a pro forma basis. North and South America During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, routes to the Americas represented operating revenues of €2,939 million, or 20.9% of scheduled passenger revenue, 29% of total passenger capacity and 32% of total traffic. We serve 20 destinations in North America and 11 destinations in eight countries in South America. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, 7.3 million passengers traveled on these routes, an increase of 9.0% as compared to during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. Despite the fact that the financial year ended March 31, 2005 continued to present exceptional challenges for the air transport industry in North America, passenger traffic and load factors increased as compared to the previous year. Through the SkyTeam alliance, which expanded in September 2004 to include KLM and its American partners Continental and Northwest, more than 150 destinations are offered in North and South America. Asia During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Asian routes generated operating revenues of €2,058 million, or 14.6% of our scheduled passenger revenue (as compared to 12.8% on a pro forma basis for the financial year ended March 31, 2004), 20% of the total passenger capacity and 21% of the group’s total traffic. We serve 20 destinations in 11 countries in Asia directly. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, 4 million passengers traveled on these routes, an increase of 23.1% as compared to 3.2 million during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. Africa and the Middle East During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, routes to Africa and the Middle East generated operating revenues of €1,920 million or 13.6% of our scheduled passenger revenue, 13.0% of the total passenger capacity and 14.0% of the group’s total traffic. We serve approximately 46 destinations in 31 countries in its Africa and Middle East network. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, 4.3 million passengers traveled on these routes, an increase of 10.3% as compared to 3.9 million during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. Caribbean and Indian Ocean During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, routes to the Caribbean and Indian Ocean generated revenues of €1,124 million, or 8.0% of our scheduled passenger revenue (as compared to 9.2% during the financial year ended March 31, 2004), 14.0% of total passenger capacity offered and 13.0% of the group’s total traffic. Air France flights comprise approximately 80% of this geographic sector and serve 15 destinations in seven countries and four French overseas territories in its Caribbean and Indian Ocean network and operates a regional network that links Miami, Port-au-Prince, Pointe-à-Pitre, Fort-de-France, and Cayenne. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, 3.15 million passengers traveled on these routes, as decrease of 2.6% as compared to during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. This region has predominantly tourist, family and government traffic, especially in the West Indies and Reunion Island. 33 Table of Contents The Medium-Haul Network The table below shows the volume of medium-haul capacity traffic and load factor for our medium haul network during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the change in these operating measures as compared to the previous financial year on a pro forma basis: Capacity(1) Traffic(2) Load factor(3) Volume Change(4) Volume Change(4) % Change(4) (in millions, except percentages) Europe and North Africa 51,390 4.7 % 34,667 5.1 % 67.5 % 0.3 Notes: (1) Available seat-kilometers (ASK). (2) Revenue passenger-kilometers (RPK). (3) RPK/ASK. (4) On a pro forma basis. The international medium-haul network covers Europe (including France) and North Africa. Air France and its regional subsidiaries Régional, Brit Air and CityJet, and KLM and its regional subsidiaries KLM cityhopper and KLM UK serve 122 destinations in 30 countries. Since April 2004, Air France has begun to simplify and redefine its medium-haul offerings in response to strong competition and structural changes in customer demand in the European market. By simplifying and standardizing onboard services, such as meals, and optimizing the space used within individual aircraft, Air France expects to reduce costs per passenger and staffing needs per flight, resulting in reduced prices for passengers and increased traffic on medium-haul flights. In addition, KLM has expanded its capacity to France from Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Eindhoven. Air France and KLM have also begun to streamline their common medium-haul network. Air France has stopped its flights to Bristol and Aberdeen in favor of KLM, while KLM has stopped flights to Casablanca and Turin in favor of Air France. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, European medium-haul routes generated operating revenues of €6,044 million, or 42.9% of our scheduled passenger revenue, 24.0% of the total passenger capacity and approximately 20% of the group’s total traffic. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, 45.3 million passengers traveled on these routes, a decrease of 4.1% as compared to during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. Marketing and Retail Sales Network Approximately 80% of Air France’s passenger revenue and 89% of KLM’s passenger revenue for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 came from sales made through the external retail sales network of travel agencies. From January 1, 2005 for KLM and from April 1, 2005 for Air France, the two companies no longer pay commissions to travel agents, which will represent an amount of €260 million of savings. Part of these savings amount will be transferred to passengers through a reduction of fares. Cargo Air France and KLM combined their capacities and synchronized their cargo networks around their respective hubs at Roissy-CDG and Amsterdam Schiphol. Excluding integrators (companies devoted exclusively to cargo), Air France-KLM became the second largest cargo company in the world in terms of scheduled freight tons carried as of December 31, 2003, according to IATA. Cargo revenues are subdivided into freight transportation and other cargo revenues. Revenues from freight transportation consist of the transportation of cargo on flights that have an Air France-KLM code, including flights that are operated by other airlines pursuant to code sharing agreements. Other cargo revenues derive principally from sales of cargo capacity to third parties. 34 Table of Contents Our total revenues from cargo were €2,492 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of 9.4% compared with the previous financial year on a pro forma basis, and represented 13.1% of Air France-KLM’s operating revenue. Capacity (ATK) during the year ended March 31, 2005 increased by 9.4%, while traffic (RTK) increased 8.8% compared to the year ended March 31, 2004 as calculated on a pro forma basis. As a consequence, the load factor decreased slightly to 68.2% from 68.6% for the previous financial year on a pro forma basis. Cargo may be carried either on a cargo-only fleet or in the bays of passenger aircraft. Of our total offered capacity, approximately half is typically carried in the holds of our cargo fleet and approximately half is typically carried in the holds of our passenger fleet. Air France and KLM together maintain a fleet of 15 cargo aircraft and 17 combination passenger-cargo aircraft. Introduction of the B747-400 ERF aircraft has contributed to the profitability of cargo activities, as their increased flight range results in lower unit operating costs than the B747-200F aircraft they are replacing. During the year ended March 31, 2005, we carried over 1.33 million tons of cargo, representing 10,078 million revenue ton-kilometers, half of which was carried in our cargo fleet, and half of which was carried in the holds of passenger aircraft. In 2000, Air France obtained ISO 9002 certification for its cargo depots at Roissy-CDG.. KLM possesses ISO 9001:2000 certification for its cargo depots at Amsterdam Schiphol. The table below shows cargo revenues by destination and the percentage of cargo revenues by destination for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, and 2003 (Air France only) and the change between such periods: Cargo Revenue by Destination Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004 Pro forma 2004 Air France published 2003 Air France published (in € millions, except percentages) % oftotal % oftotal %change % oftotal % oftotal Europe and North Africa 192 8.3 % 206 9.9 % (6.8 )% 181 14.3 % 141 10.7 % Caribbean and Indian Ocean 178 7.7 % 169 8.1 % 5.3 % 153 12.1 % 154 11.7 % Africa and Middle East 279 12.1 % 255 12.2 % 9.4 % 154 12.2 % 157 11.9 % North and South America 652 28.3 % 575 27.6 % 13.4 % 342 27.1 % 386 29.4 % Asia 999 43.5 % 879 42.2 % 13.7 % 434 34.3 % 476 36.2 % Scheduled cargo revenues 2,300 100.0 % 2,084 100.0 % 10.4 % 1,264 100.0 % 1,314 100.0 % Other cargo revenues 192 193 148 165 Total cargo revenues 2,492 2,277 1,412 1,479 35 Table of Contents The table below shows cargo revenues by sales region and the percentage of cargo revenues by sales region for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, and 2003 (Air France only) and the change between such periods: Cargo Revenue by Sales Region Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004 Pro forma 2004 Air France published 2003 Air France published (in € millions, except percentages) % oftotal % oftotal %change % oftotal % oftotal Europe and North Africa 1,081 47.0 % 1,038 49.8 % 4.1 % 676 53.5 % 687 52.3 % Caribbean and Indian Ocean 41 1.8 % 43 2.1 % (4.7 )% 40 3.2 % 45 3.4 % Africa and Middle East 157 6.8 % 143 6.9 % 9.8 % 86 6.8 % 97 7.4 % North and South America 266 11.6 % 236 11.3 % 12.7 % 134 10.6 % 141 10.7 % Asia 755 32.8 % 624 29.9 % 21.0 % 328 25.9 % 344 26.2 % Scheduled cargo revenues 2,300 100.0 % 2,084 100.0 % 10.4 % 1,264 100.0 % 1,314 100.0 % Other cargo revenues 192 193 148 165 Total cargo revenues 2,492 2,277 1,412 1,479 The table below shows the volume of cargo capacity, traffic and load factor during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the change in these operating measures as compared to the previous financial year as calculated on a pro forma basis: Capacity(1) Traffic(2) Load Factor(3) Volume Change Volume Change % Change Cargo activity 14,774 9.4% 10,078 8.8% 68.2% (0.4) Notes: (1) Available seat-kilometers (ASK) (2) Revenue passenger-kilometers (RPK) (3) RPK/ASK In September 2000, the SkyTeam alliance was extended to include cargo services, resulting in the formation of SkyTeam Cargo. On August 29, 2001, Alitalia Cargo joined the SkyTeam Cargo alliance, allowing SkyTeam Cargo to offer the largest global cargo network out of Europe. KLM Cargo was admitted as a member of the SkyTeam Cargo alliance on September 13, 2004. With the SkyTeam Cargo alliance, we and our partners are able to offer single point of contact sales and a “one roof policy” for shipping products and services, resulting in increased efficiency of operations from synergies such as group purchases and shared support resources. The SkyTeam Cargo alliance offers cargo services to more than 500 locations in 114 countries. Products Air France Cargo, KLM Cargo and SkyTeam Cargo alliance offer a common range of four products – Equation, Variation, Cohesion, and Dimension. Equation offers express shipment and guarantees priority handling for shipments that are loaded without prior reservation on the first available departing flight.. Variation offers solutions for the transportation of one-off merchandise such as live animals, valuable artworks, heavy equipment and hazardous materials. Cohesion is a custom product intended for businesses making regular “just 36 Table of Contents in time” shipments. Cohesion offers customers guaranteed regular access to shipping capacity and integrated shipping solutions through a tri-partite contract between the shipper, the cargo agent and the group’s cargo division. Dimension is the standard product offering airport-to-airport cargo shipping services to cargo agents. Industrial Logistics and Aircraft Maintenance Activities The business combination of Air France and KLM has allowed us to strengthen our position as the world leader in multi-product aircraft maintenance by combining the complementary features of the maintenance activities of Air France (Air France Industries (AFI)), and those of the KLM Engineering & Maintenance division. In addition to maintaining the group’s two fleets, they provide maintenance for the fleets of approximately 100 clients. We recorded third party revenues for maintenance activities of €777 million, despite a negative currency effect of 2.6%. This represented an increase of 4.0% on a pro forma basis as compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income for maintenance activities was €48 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to €55 million (a decrease of 10.9%) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, on a pro forma basis. All aircraft are subject to technical reviews and regular maintenance stipulated by manufacturers and the regulations in force in the country in which an aircraft is registered. MRO activities consist of regularly scheduled MRO activities (preventive maintenance) and supplementary MRO activities (curative maintenance) performed on an as-needed basis. Regularly scheduled MRO activities includes line maintenance – whole aircraft inspections undertaken after each flight, and on a daily and weekly basis; light maintenance – systematic, detailed inspections and functional tests undertaken at specified calendar and engine-hour intervals; and heavy maintenance – overhaul of airframe and certain components performed at six to 10-year intervals, depending on the aircraft. Our maintenance operating facilities are located at six main sites: four sites at Air France Industries and two sites belonging to KLM. Additionally, separate maintenance units are located at 200 airports for Air France Industries and 50 airports for KLM. Air France Industries Air France Industries provides a full range of maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) aircraft services, including wide body and narrow body heavy maintenance, engine overhaul, component repair and spare parts provision, light maintenance, thrust reversers, customized fleet service and special projects (modifications to military transport or private aircraft, major cabin modifications and conversion of combined cargo-passenger aircraft to passenger-only or cargo-only). Air France Industries, which at March 31, 2005 employed approximately 10,000 people, has operating facilities at four sites: Roissy-CDG, Orly, Toulouse, and Le Bourget. The Toulouse Blagnac site is used for heavy maintenance of small carriers, the Orly site is used for heavy maintenance of large carriers, engines and equipment, the Roissy site is used for regular maintenance, and the Le Bourget site is used for servicing special fleets. Air France Industries is the world leader for major maintenance of the Airbus A319, A320 and A321, for equipment support on the range of Airbus A320, A330, A340 and the Boeing B777. It is also the world leader for services on the CFM56-5 engines for the airbus A320 and A340. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France opened its new industrial center in Blagnac to replace its Montaudran plant and opened an equipment, logistics, operations and maintenance (E.O.L.E.) plant in Villeneuve-le-Roi. The Blagnac industrial center, with an area of 35,700 square meters, is devoted to major maintenance of small carriers. The E.O.L.E. plant, with an area of 41,000 square meters, integrates avionics technologies, surface treatments as well as hydraulics and pneumatics services. 37 Table of Contents In June 2005, Air France Industries entered into a 50/50 joint venture with Lufthansa Technik to launch Spairliners GmbH. Spairliners will offer support services for components to all A380 operators worldwide, including component support for the 25 A380 currently ordered by Air France and Lufthansa. Spairliners will offer a comprehensive range of services including overhaul, repair, management of the spare parts pool and related logistics. KLM Engineering & Maintenance KLM’s Engineering & Maintenance business offers a complete package of maintenance services, ranging from engine, component and airframe overhaul to total aircraft care. It is one of the three largest aircraft maintenance companies affiliated to an airline in Europe. The division, which employs approximately 5,300 people, specializes in the maintenance of Boeing B747 and B737 planes and General Electric CF6 engines. The Engineering & Maintenance business’s main customer is KLM, which accounts for approximately 60% of its operating revenues. KLM’s maintenance operations are located at two principal sites: Schiphol, the Amsterdam airport, and Norwich in Great Britain. In 2004, KLM opened a new plant to service engines allowing the handling of 350 inspections per year, compared with 200 in the prior facility. This operation was completed in cooperation with General Electric, the supplier of the three engine classes most used by KLM and Air France. Other Activities Our other activities primarily include KLM’s charter business through its subsidiary transavia.com and our catering activity. KLM Charter Business KLM operates a charter business through its subsidiary transavia.com. For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, transavia.com has a fleet of 17 aircraft and carried 4 million passengers, an increase of 6% as compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. During the same period, revenues totaled €419 million, an increase of 5.8% as compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. Catering We provide catering services through Servair (97.6% owned subsidiary of Air France) and KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. (100% owned subsidiary of KLM). Our catering revenues increased by €386 million as compared with the previous year on a pro forma basis. Each of Servair and KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. provides a wide range of services tailored to the needs of Air France, KLM and other airlines: food preparation and catering, aircraft resupply, cabin cleaning and service, ramp and baggage services, and airport logistics. Servair and KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. had 7,724 and 1,350 employees, respectively, as of March 31, 2005. Servair and KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. collectively provide approximately 164,000 meals per day. Amadeus Amadeus GTD Amadeus Global Travel Distribution S.A., 23.4% owned by Air France, is an information technology company providing IT solutions for the global travel and tourism industry. Amadeus’ operations are centered around the Global Distribution System, or GDS, the world’s largest international electronic marketing and sales system for travel, covering approximately 47,000 terminals in more than 215 markets at June 1, 2005. Amadeus connected travel providers, airlines, hotels, car rental agencies, rail, tour, insurance, ferry and cruise operators with approximately 72,000 travel agencies worldwide at June 1, 2005. 38 Table of Contents In addition to its electronic marketing and sales business, Amadeus provides a platform for travel-oriented e-commerce systems for online travel retailers and corporations. Amadeus’ e-travel offerings are available in 20 languages and are supported around the world. Amadeus is also a provider of IT systems for airlines, with its GDS system serving as the sole internal sales system of approximately one quarter of the world’s airlines. In addition, Amadeus offers airlines an innovative and flexible passenger service system, which manages critical airline IT functions such as inventory, sales and departure control. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France and a number of other shareholders of Amadeus initiated negotiations with private equity funds to launch, through a company in which they will be shareholders, a public offer for shares of Amadeus. The offer closed on June 27, 2005, following which Air France indirectly holds 22.96% of Amadeus GTD. See “—Other Significant Developments After March 31, 2005—Amadeus GTD”. Amadeus GTD purchased Air France’s 66% interest in Amadeus France for €85 million in December 2004. Amadeus GTD owns 74.2% of the share capital of Opodo Limited, an online travel agent offering flights, insurance, car and hotel products. Air France-KLM currently owns 8.3% of Opodo’s share capital. The remainder of Opodo’s share capital is owned by British Airways, Aer Lingus, Alitalia, Austrian Airlines, Finnair, Iberia and Lufthansa. Support Operations Frequent Flyer Programs Flying Blue On June 1, 2005, we merged the Air France “Fréquence Plus” and the KLM “Flying Dutchman” programs into one frequent flyer program called “Flying Blue”. With ten million members, Flying Blue is the basic tool by which the customer relations divisions of both airlines may recognize their loyal customers and provide them with high quality service, regardless of the airline they travel on. In cooperation with more than 30 partner airlines, as well as the member airlines of SkyTeam, Flying Blue enables customers to earn and redeem miles for travel on one of 18,000 daily flights to 900 destinations. The ability to earn and redeem miles has been further increased with the participation of approximately 100 non-airline partners in the program. SkyTeam Elite SkyTeam Elite is a joint frequent flyer program developed by the SkyTeam alliance’s partners that offers advanced customer services to certain categories of passengers on select routes of the SkyTeam network. For example, members of the SkyTeam Elite Frequent Flyer program may benefit from a priority reservation waitlist, priority check-in, extended lounge access, priority boarding, preferred seating and priority airport standby. In addition, members of the SkyTeam Elite Plus Frequent Flyer program may benefit from guaranteed reservations on sold-out flights and priority baggage handling. Elite members accrue reward miles on all SkyTeam flights and may redeem their miles for award tickets on any SkyTeam airline. Airport Lounges Customers of Air France and KLM have access to more than 390 airport lounges (including those of SkyTeam members) worldwide. 39 Table of Contents Principal Raw Materials Suppliers The principal raw material we use in our business is fuel. Air France obtains fuel from approximately 60 oil companies or retailers, with six large international oil companies providing approximately 75% of its supplies, and KLM pursuant to various local fuel supply contracts. The prices of fuel set forth in these contracts fluctuate with market indicators and are subject to periodic adjustment. Air France and KLM each pay for approximately 100% of their jet fuel in dollars. Refueling contracts with oil companies are generally renegotiated annually through standard tendering procedures. The Air France’s standard contract is for one year, except in certain isolated cases when Air France and KLM are also implementing joint fuel purchase programs in conjunction with SkyTeam alliance partners in order to benefit from increased purchasing leverage. The price of jet fuel is historically volatile and is susceptible to geopolitical instability and has recently been at historically high levels. See “Item 3: Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Business—Air France-KLM may be adversely affected by high jet fuel prices”. Air France and KLM employ a variety of risk management tools for oil and fuel purchasing, including swaps and options with or without premiums, and by purchasing jet fuel in various stages of production and refinement in order to exploit price differentials between such stages. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk—Market Risk”. In response to the increase in the price of jet fuel, both Air France and KLM have introduced a series of fuel surcharges on their passenger and cargo flights. See “—Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Airline Industry Trends—Increased Fuel Prices”. Competition Air France and KLM face competition on point-to-point traffic from different national carriers serving these destinations. In addition, for connecting traffic, we compete with other major international airlines operating hub facilities with connections to France or Holland. In the European market, Air France and KLM also face competition from low-cost airlines, principally easyJet and Ryanair, as well as alternative means of transportation, in particular the TGV, the French high-speed rail link and the Eurostar. Air France has code-sharing arrangements with the TGV network, offering rail/air transfers at the Roissy-CDG Terminal 2 and rail/air links from five regional cities to Roissy-CDG, thereby feeding hub traffic and allowing TGV passengers to access Air France’s international network. Similarly, Air France has a code-sharing arrangement with Thalys International, a high-speed rail network with a Brussels-Paris link. Passengers may purchase combined train/air tickets and travel on any one of five direct trips per day between Brussels-Midi station and Roissy-CDG. Our competitors in cargo transport are principally Lufthansa, CARGOLUX, Singapore Airlines and Korean Air as well as freight integrators. The Fleet The Air France-KLM fleet As of March 31, 2005, our fleet consisted of 568 aircraft, including 551 planes in operation. At the same date, we had orders for 48 planes and options on 32 aircraft. 212 planes (37% of the fleet) were fully owned, while 136 aircraft (24% of the fleet) were under financial leases and 220 planes (39% of the fleet) were under operating leases. In addition to the main fleet, Air Ivoire operates four aircraft. Both Air France and KLM have placed orders for the Boeing B747-400ERF cargo, the Boeing B777-200 and Airbus A330-200 for their long-haul fleet. Although Air France and KLM continue to manage separate fleets, these joint choices enable both companies to define common technical specifications for future aircraft in 40 Table of Contents terms of flight decks, engines and avionics. Only the cabins will be specific to each company. Joint specifications facilitate the transfer of ownership or operational leasing of aircraft between the two companies, harmonize industrial strategies by preventing duplication of skills and reducing inventories of maintenance parts, improve training resources for flight deck crews as well as ensure more attractive commercial terms from suppliers. During the year ended March 31, 2005, we undertook a review of our regional fleet and the decision was made to lease certain KLM regional planes to City Jet (two BAE 146) and BritAir (two Fokker 100) in order to optimize the capacities of the Air France and KLM fleets. We have also undertaken a review of the future needs of the regional fleets of Air France and KLM and is currently in the process of implementing a coordinated action plan for future relationships with other aircraft companies as well as with, engine and other parts manufacturers. Air France and KLM are accelerating the renewal of their fleets in response to the combined effects of very high oil prices and a weak dollar. Air France decided to replace the B 747-200 and 300 aircraft used in its Caribbean and Indian Ocean network with B 777-300ER, which consume 50% less fuel, and the cargo B 747-200 aircraft with B747-400ERF and B 777F. KLM decided to replace its B 767-300ER with A330 and B777-200. It is currently contemplated that Air France will complete these replacements in the summer of 2010 and KLM in the summer of 2009. The Air France Group Fleet As at March 31, 2005, the Air France group fleet consisted of 387 planes, including 254 in the Air France fleet, 133 in the regional fleet plus four at Air Ivoire. 43% of the Air France group fleet is owned, 15% is under financial leases, and 42% is operated under operating leases. The Air France fleet Air France operates a fleet of 254 aircraft, with 249 in operation, including 147 medium-haul, 90 long-haul and 12 cargo aircraft. The aircraft in the fleet have an average age of 8.6 years, with 6.6 for the long-haul fleet, 9.4 for the medium-haul fleet and 13.9 for the cargo fleet. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, 23 aircraft were added to the fleet and 14 were withdrawn. In the medium-haul fleet, four Airbus A318, four Airbus A319, two Airbus A320 and one Airbus A321 were added. One Airbus A320 and nine Boeing B737 (three B737-300 and six B737-500) were withdrawn. In the long-haul fleet, four Boeing 747-200 were withdrawn (two passenger planes and two cargo planes) and 12 aircraft were added, including one Boeing B747-400 passenger plane, one Boeing B747-400 cargo, nine Boeing B777-300 and one Airbus A330-200. Investments in flight equipment over the year amounted to €1.39 billion (including advances on orders and capital maintenance operations). At March 31, 2005, there were firm orders for 31 aircraft and options on 21. 41 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the Air France fleet as at March 31, 2005 and 2004: Type of Aircraft Company owned Financial leases Operating leases Total In Operation 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Long-haul fleet A340-300 8 8 6 6 8 8 22 22 22 22 A330-200 4 3 1 1 9 9 14 13 13 12 B777-200/300 16 14 4 2 14 9 34 25 34 25 B747-400 8 9 1 1 7 5 16 15 16 15 B747-200/300 7 7 — — — 2 7 9 5 9 B767-300 1 1 — — — — 1 1 — — B747-200 Cargo 5 5 1 1 2 4 8 10 8 10 B747-400 Cargo 1 1 — — 3 2 4 3 4 3 Total Long-haul fleet 50 48 13 11 43 39 106 98 102 96 Medium-haul fleet A318-200 9 5 — — — — 9 5 9 5 A319-100 8 17 4 4 21 18 43 39 43 39 A320-100/200 49 44 3 5 15 17 67 66 67 65 A321-100/200 11 8 — 2 2 2 13 12 13 12 B737-300/500 4 6 3 3 9 16 16 25 15 23 Total Medium-haul fleet 91 80 10 14 47 53 148 147 147 144 Total Air France fleet 141 128 23 25 90 92 254 245 249 240 The Air France regional fleet The Air France regional division has a fleet of 133 planes with 100 seats or fewer, with 121 aircraft in operation and ten leased from third-party companies. This fleet is primarily organized around four aircraft: the Régional Embraer, the Brit Air Bombardier, the Régional and BritAir Fokker (capacity of 79 and 100 seats), and the CityJet BAE. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Brit Air added one CRJ 700 to its fleet. In addition, two BAE 146-300 were added to the CityJet fleet from the Air France group fleet. Régional added two Fokker 70, one Fokker 100 and one ERJ 145 and withdrew one EMB 120 from its fleet. The average age of aircraft in the regional operating fleet is 7.4 years for Brit Air, 18.4 years for CityJet and 8.5 years for Régional. Investments in flight equipment amounted to €61.1 million for the year. There were firm orders for eight aircraft at March 31, 2005, without options. 42 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the Air France regional fleet as at March 31, 2005 and 2004: Type of Aircraft Company owned Financial leases Operating leases Total In Operation 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Brit Air Fleet Canadair Jet 100 2 2 11 11 6 6 19 19 19 19 Canadair Jet 700 2 1 9 9 — — 11 10 11 10 F100-100 1 1 — — 9 9 10 10 10 10 Total Brit Air fleet 5 4 20 20 15 15 40 39 40 39 Régional fleet Embraer RJ 145 2 1 8 9 8 17 28 27 28 27 Embraer RJ 135 2 3 3 2 4 4 9 9 9 9 Embraer 120 7 3 3 3 3 8 13 14 10 12 Fokker 100 1 — — — 6 — 7 — 6 — Fokker 70 — — — — 5 9 5 9 5 9 Beech 1900 6 6 1 1 1 1 8 8 — — SAAB 2000 — — — — 6 6 6 6 6 6 Total Régional fleet 18 13 15 15 43 45 76 73 64 63 CityJet fleet BAE 146-200 5 1 — — 12 14 17 15 17 15 Total CityJet fleet 5 1 — — 12 14 17 15 17 15 Total regional fleet 28 18 35 35 70 74 133 127 121 117 Other fleets Air Ivoire, a subsidiary of Air France, serves Africa from Abidjan with three Fokker 28. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air Ivoire added an Airbus A321 to its fleet to serve the Abidjan-Paris route. Following the events in the Ivory Coast, however, this line was suspended and the plane was subleased in March 2005. The KLM Group fleet As at March 31, 2005, the KLM group fleet consisted of 181 aircraft, all of which were operational. There were orders for eight aircraft and options on 11. 24% of the planes are owned in full, 43% under financial leases, and 33% under operating leases. The average age of the aircraft in the fleet is 9.6 years; with 9.5 years for the long-haul fleet and seven years for the medium-haul fleet. The KLM fleet The KLM fleet has 128 aircraft in operation, with 57 long-haul planes, including 17 B747 passenger/freight combos and three cargo B747-400 FR planes and 71 medium-haul planes During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, six planes were added to the fleet and one was withdrawn. In the medium-haul fleet, one B737-400 was removed and one B737-800 and B737-900 each were added. In the long-haul fleet, four B777-200 were added. Investments in flight equipment over the year amounted to €261 (including advances on orders and capital maintenance operations). At March 31, 2005, there were firm orders for nine aircraft and options on 11. 43 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the KLM fleet as at March 31, 2005 and 2004: Type of Aircraft Company-owned Financial leases Operating leases Total In operation 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Long-haul fleet B777-200 — — 4 3 6 3 10 6 10 6 B747-400 6 6 16 16 — — 22 22 22 22 B767-300 — — — — 12 12 12 12 12 12 MD11 — — 8 8 2 2 10 10 10 10 B747-400 Cargo — — 3 3 — — 3 3 3 3 Total long-haul fleet 6 6 31 30 20 17 57 53 57 53 Medium-haul fleet B737-300 6 6 1 1 7 7 14 14 14 14 B737-400 6 5 — 2 7 7 13 14 13 14 B737-700 — — 4 4 5 5 9 9 9 8 B737-800 6 6 20 19 4 4 30 29 30 29 B737-900 — — 2 1 3 3 5 4 5 5 Total Medium-haul fleet 18 17 27 27 26 26 71 70 71 70 Total KLM fleet 24 23 58 57 46 43 128 123 128 123 The KLM regional fleet KLM’s regional fleet consists of 53 aircraft divided between two aircraft: Fokker and BAE. The average age of aircraft in operation is 12.6 years. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, one Fokker 70 and one Fokker 100 were added to the regional fleet and five BAE 146-100/300 were withdrawn from the regional fleet. No investments in aircraft equipment were made over the period. At March 31, 2005, there were no options on aircraft. The following table sets forth the KLM regional fleet as at March 31, 2005 and 2004: Type of Aircraft Company-owned Financial leases Operating leases Total In operation 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 KLM Cityhopper fleet Fokker 70 18 16 0 1 3 3 21 20 21 20 Fokker 50 — — 6 6 4 4 10 10 10 10 Total KLM Cityhopper fleet 18 16 6 7 7 7 31 30 31 30 KLM Cityhopper UK Fleet Fokker 50 — — — — 6 6 6 6 6 6 Fokker 100 1 1 14 14 1 — 16 15 16 15 BAE 146 100/300 — — — — — 5 — 5 — 5 Total KLM Cityhopper UK fleet 1 1 14 14 7 11 22 26 22 26 Total KLM regional fleet 19 17 20 21 14 18 53 56 53 56 44 Table of Contents Property The following description sets forth our principal properties in addition to our fleet of aircraft. Air France Properties Principal Properties Description Nature of Title ApproximateGross Size (square meters) CDG – Roissy Airport Terminals A-F passenger terminal leased 56,072 Maintenance Areas hangars, workshops leased 723,375 Equipment Area open storage area leased 60,271 Equipment Area/Runway Buildings protected storage area/offices, workshops leased 63,952 45 rue de Paris head offices leased 65,020 parking garage leased 86,000 Terminal 1 passenger terminal leased 26,129 Orly Airport Aérogare Orly flight operations terminal leased 77,418 Paray Vieille Poste hangars, workshops, offices leased 166,737 1 avenue du Maréchal Devaux offices (central building) owned 13,150 warehouses/restaurant owned 20,447 owned 2,400 Le Bourget Airport Maintenance Areas hangars, offices, parking area, workshops leased 97,395 Toulouse Maintenance Areas hangars, offices owned 80,090 leased 4,692 Montreuil 2 Gaumont offices leased 29,031 Vilgénis Domaine de Vilgénis instruction center owned 6,849 Air France also has other freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in numerous countries throughout the world that collectively are less significant. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. In April 2004, Air France opened its new industrial centre in Blagnac, Toulouse to replace the Montaudran plant. Construction began in October 2002 and the center was completed in December 2003, representing a total investment of approximately €40 million. This centre is dedicated to major maintenance for small carriers. The Roissy-CDG and Orly airports are operated by ADP, a state-owned entity which has a concession to operate and manage the airports in the Paris area. Air France rents technical, administrative and commercial premises within the airport, parking strips for the aircraft and industrial premises and hangars for cargo and maintenance that are often located on the side areas of the runways. In certain cases, Air France is the tenant of equipped premises (commercial premises within the terminals) or empty premises that it equips (for example, lounges for passengers at Roissy-CDG). Regarding terminal 2F at Roissy-CDG, Air France is responsible for completely equipping, remodeling and decorating the private areas in the interior of the terminal. This was also true of terminal 2E which has been closed following the collapse of 45 Table of Contents part of the roof on May 23, 2004. Air France’s expenses in connection with the work on terminal 2E were estimated to total €48 million, of which €40 million had already been spent prior to its closure. With respect to industrial premises and hangars, Air France is usually the tenant of the land and the owner of the buildings that it has constructed. This is also the case for Air France’s corporate head offices, where Air France has a long-term construction lease of 70 years (from 1994) with the landowner, ADP. On January 28, 2004, Air France entered into a 12-year sale and leaseback agreement with a syndicate of banks covering the building and Air France’s rights under the construction lease. Air France also occupies premises and land in the airports outside the Paris region, pursuant to the same temporary occupation regime. In foreign airports, Air France is subject, as are the other airline companies, to applicable local law. Air France’s largest leased area outside of France is at New York’s John F. Kennedy airport. KLM Properties Principal Properties Description Nature of Title ApproximateGross Size (square meters) Amstelveen Head office owned 39,830 Parking Space owned 10,668 Schiphol Airport Hangars owned 226,448 Parking Space owned 27,569 Freight buildings owned 99,523 Terminal buildings leased 35,060 Crewcenter leased 6,494 Engine shop owned 80,043 Catering buildings owned 58,764 Warehouses owned 38,796 Offices owned 129,115 Other owned 41,953 KLM owns its head office buildings in Amstelveen where its corporate management and various staff bureaus and divisions are located. In addition, KLM maintains and operates facilities at Amsterdam Airport Schiphol for the servicing, overhauling and repair of aircraft, engines, parts and accessories. These facilities include hangars, engine, communications and other workshops, engine test cells and warehousing facilities. KLM houses its operations, engineering and purchasing personnel at Schiphol airport. All of these engineering and maintenance facilities are either leased or constructed on leased land. The land leases typically have a term varying from 25 to 75 years. Schiphol airport is operated by a corporation owned jointly by the State of the Netherlands, the City of Amsterdam, the Province of Noord-Holland and the City of Rotterdam. Environmental Policy Air France and KLM are each individually responsible for environmental management of their operations. Air France has established an Environment and Sustainable Development Department which is responsible for the environmental policy of Air France. This department is responsible for enforcing the environmental policy at the air operations level as well as overseeing the enforcement of the environmental policy for ground operations as carried-out by other departments. Both the Environment and Sustainable Development Department and the departments responsible for ground operations are responsible for ensuring regulatory compliance and for limiting the environmental impact of operations. 46 Table of Contents KLM’s environmental policy is established at the board level and put into practice through annual environmental programs. One member of the board of managing directors is designated as responsible for environmental issues. Each organizational unit within KLM has an environmental liaison officer responsible for coordinating environmental issues and advising management. The Environmental Services Department assists the board of managing directors and the individual organizational units. It also monitors internal and external developments relating to the environment. KLM’s management is responsible for ensuring that sufficient information and training opportunities on environment issues are available. This is verified annually as part of KLM’s ISO 14001 certification. Air France is currently undertaking steps to harmonize this local training throughout the company. Environmental evaluation or certification programs Air France is committed to environmental management following the ISO 14001 rules, applied consistently with its Quality-Safety- Environment (QSE) program. The Orly (engineering and maintenance department) and Le Bourget sites of Air France Industry are already ISO 14001 certified. Air France Industries aims to have 70% of its sites ISO 14001 certified by 2006. Air France Operations is currently undertaking a preliminary audit of sites in continental France. Air France Cargo is currently reviewing its various sites with the goal of establishing environmental assessments by the summer of 2005. The ISO 14001 standard will continue to be the benchmark guiding the deployment of the environmental program in accordance with the QSE program. Air France Industries’ CRMA subsidiary has been ISO 14001 certified since 1999. Servair (catering) has deployed a system of preliminary environmental diagnostics at its sites. Its ACNA cleaning subsidiary has also embarked on an ISO 14001 certification program. KLM is ISO 14001 and EMAS certified. Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements As operators of passenger and cargo aircraft, Air France and KLM are subject to a wide range of French, Dutch, E.U. and international regulations. See “—Regulation of Air France-KLM—Environmental Protection and Anti-Noise Standards”. At present, Air France and KLM each monitor regulatory developments with respect to issues directly concerning them. To ensure greater consistency within Air France and guarantee exhaustive coverage of applicable regulations, Air France has decided to set up a centralized monitoring tool, to be overseen by the environmental law specialist consultancy firm of Huglo Lepage. As part of its ISO 14001 system, KLM has extensive procedures to identify amendments to applicable environmental legislation or regulations. When KLM implements process changes, it notifies the competent authorities are notified to ensure the current environmental licenses do not need revision. Environmental Risk Management In January 2003, Air France established a Risk Management and Environmental Protection Unit within the QSE Department. This unit is responsible for drafting three-year action plans to monitor maintenance activities that could have a significant environmental impact. These three-year actions plans are designed to stay abreast or ahead of regulatory developments. Risks are initially identified through audits or inventory programs. 47 Table of Contents KLM has two systems designed to manage environmental risk. First, ISO 14001 pro-actively identifies risks and required action through the execution of audits, management reviews and the regular update of all environmental registers. Additionally, KLM applies a company-wide risk management system where, every quarter, risks are inventoried, the likelihood and impact assessed and the proposed action is discussed at board level. Repairing environmental damage We are liable for the noise tax at Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport and France’s ten main airports. For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France paid out €8.5 million in noise tax, of which €7.9 million was for its activities in the Paris region. Air France is a member of the CCE/CCAR (Environmental Advisory Committee/Advisory Committee for Resident Assistance), responsible for ensuring that funds collected under the noise tax are put to the most effective use and that residents in designated noise areas are properly sound-proofed as rapidly as possible. The Committee seeks to optimize protection around airport zones, while restricting the inflow of additional residents in zones where noise pollution from airports is deemed penalizing. Air France continues the clean-up of the Air France Industry Montaudran site, which has been vacated after more than five decades of maintenance activity. In conjunction with the Toulouse DRIRE (Regional Industry, Research and Environmental Agency), Air France carried out preliminary studies and is financing soil rehabilitation work. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France carried out studies on pollution identified on the northern part of the maintenance site and the possible related risks. The overall clean-up program, describing the technical solutions to deal with the problems identified, was presented to the DRIRE in April 2005. In parallel, the water table is being continually monitored in the southern area of the site. The measured content of the main pollutants is, to date, below regulatory thresholds. KLM publishes annually on the internet (www.klm.com/sustainability) an overview of its environmental costs. A detailed overview of the financial year ended March 31, 2005 will become available in June 2005. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, KLM’s environmental costs totaled €1.4 million (excluding contribution to noise insulation programs). The main costs items included extra fuel consumption due to noise procedures, waste disposal and costs of KLM’s environmental staff. As we believe we are in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, no provisions have been recorded in respect of such regulations. Legal Proceedings We and our subsidiaries are involved in various disputes, for which we have not necessarily been required to book provisions in our financial statements. A class action has been filed against Air France, KLM and several U.S. airlines, by five travel agencies based in the United States and their professional association (Association of Retail Travel Agents) for collusion. The damages claimed against the airlines represents a total of U.S.$17.5 billion, and this amount may be tripled under U.S. collusion legislation. An initial ruling was handed down on October 30, 2003 in favor of the airlines. In a ruling announced on December 9, 2004, the Court of Richmond (Virginia) confirmed the decision taken on October 30, 2003. Subject to a possible appeal, the airlines, including Air France and KLM, have been definitively cleared in this case. No provisions had been booked in connection with this dispute. A similar suit is currently being reviewed by the federal courts in Ohio. Approximately 150 travel agents, which were initially plaintiffs in the case mentioned above, but later withdrew, have filed a case on the same grounds (collusion) against Air France, KLM and other European and U.S. airlines. The amount of damages alleged has not yet been determined. Neither Air France nor KLM have booked any provisions in connection with these proceedings. 48 Table of Contents In December 2004, IAP Intermodal filed charges against several airlines including Air France in a federal court in Texas, alleging that the flight-time scheduling software used by these airlines infringes on three patents held by IAP Intermodal. On the basis of legal advice given by a firm specializing in these matters in the United States, Air France believes that these claims have no grounds, and does not plan on booking any provisions. During the calendar years 2000 and early 2001, a number of Servair employees initiated a lawsuit before the French Labor Court seeking payment of back wages. The plaintiffs argued that time spent eating meals in the company cafeteria constituted time during which the employee is under the control of the employer and should thus be compensated as normal working hours. Servair has taken the position that time spent eating meals is an interruption in working hours that is not entitled to remuneration. In its definitive ruling dated November 8, 2001, the Court of Appeal of Paris sided with the position argued by Servair. Other suits representing a total of 471 individual claims initiated by Servair employees over this same issue are still pending before the courts. In a ruling handed down on October 29, 2004, the court dismissed a case filed by approximately 30 employees. In a ruling handed down on June 7, 2005, the court dismissed actions brought by 122 employees. A decision is expected to be handed down on the actions of a further 150 employees on September 26, 2005. Regulation of Air France-KLM The International Regulatory Framework International commercial air transport is regulated by international conventions that each participating country undertakes to ratify and directly apply within its national airspace. Three principal conventions, together with subsequent modifications, establish the legal and regulatory framework governing international commercial air transport: the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air (1929) known as the Warsaw Convention, the Convention on international civil aviation (1944) known as the Chicago Convention, and the Convention on damage caused by foreign aircraft to third parties on the surface (1952) known as the Rome Convention. The Warsaw Convention, modified by the Montreal Convention The Warsaw Convention (1929), later modified by the Hague Protocol (1955), established the principle of limited liability of air transport companies based on a presumption of fault. Under the Warsaw Convention, the financial limits on liability could be extended only if the victim proved gross negligence on the part of the air transport company or if certain conditions (principally related to ticketing) were not met. On May 28, 1999, the Montreal Convention was adopted by more than 50 countries, and entered into force in the E.U. on June 28, 2004 after ratification on April 29, 2004 by France and 12 other E.U. Member States. This treaty provides for increased protection for victims who have suffered loss, and combines the presumption of fault principle of the Warsaw convention with strict liability for damages deriving from accidents, up to a specified threshold amount, which amount is to be reviewed periodically. Following the entry into the force of the Montreal Convention, a new European Regulation, No. 889/2002, voted on May 13, 2002, now applies within the E.U. creating a uniform system of liability for international air transport. The Chicago Convention The Chicago Convention (1944) sets out the legal and technical principles governing international civil aviation. In addition, the Chicago Convention subjects participant countries, which include substantially all the member countries of the United Nations, to a common legal framework governing international air transport that participant countries are required to implement in their respective national air space and apply in their relations with one another. In summary, the Chicago Convention laid down the general principle that each signatory state 49 Table of Contents should have sovereignty over its air space and should have the right to control the operation of scheduled international air services over or into its territory. As a result, international air transport is founded on a collection of transport rights which the participant states apply to each other (often referred to as traffic rights) by entering into: • multilateral air transport agreements between states, such as the International Air Services Transit Agreement of 1944, which gives airlines based in the contracting states general rights for their scheduled flights to over-fly the territories of other contracting states and to make non-traffic stops in such territories, and • bilateral treaties based more or less closely on the standard agreements set forth in the Chicago Convention and through which the states grant each other one or more of the designated “Air Freedoms”. The Chicago Convention permits non-scheduled flights, both charter and cargo, to fly-over the territories of signatory states and gives rights for non-scheduled flights to make stops for non-traffic purposes in the territories of such states, subject to certain restrictions which may be imposed by the individual states. Traffic rights for non-scheduled flights are generally unilaterally granted by each participant state in relation to its own air space directly to the airline carriers. The home states of the relevant airline carriers are only involved in the event of disputes. France and the Netherlands are each currently a party to the Chicago Convention, the International Air Services Transit Agreement and the two protocols amending the Chicago Convention relating to airline industry regulations. In addition, France and the Netherlands are each a party to a number of bilateral treaties. These bilateral treaties generally contain provisions governing the designation of airline carriers for the operation of specified routes, and may contain rules regulating the capacity offered by such airline carriers and procedures for the agreement of tariffs. Many bilateral treaties require the combined approvals of the aviation authorities of both states involved. The system established by the Chicago Convention presumes a formal connection between airline companies and their aircraft on the one hand, and individual states on the other. Consequently, with many exceptions, each aircraft is usually registered in the same state as the airline company that operates it. In the case of airline companies, foreign ownership or effective control cannot exceed certain thresholds. Air France’s rights to operate air travel services on non-E.U. routes depend in many instances on being majority or substantially owned and effectively controlled by French or E.U. nationals. In many instances, KLM’s rights similarly depend on being majority or substantially owned and effectively controlled by Dutch or E.U. nationals. Bilateral treaties incorporate, and sometimes reinforce, these provisions. Air France’s amended articles of association provide that certain shareholders may be obligated to sell all or a part of their Air France shares if 45% or more of the share capital or voting rights of Air France are held, directly or indirectly, by non-French persons. See “Item 10: Additional Information—Form and Holding of Shares—Compulsory Transfer of Shares”. In addition, the State of the Netherlands has an option, which has been amended in connection with the combination, to acquire preference shares B of KLM if a country imposes or will impose restrictions or conditions on KLM as a consequence of a substantial part of KLM’s share capital not being demonstrably Dutch owned or KLM not being effectively controlled by Dutch nationals. The Chicago Convention also provides for aircraft noise control and engine emission control regulations, set forth in Annex 16 thereof. As an operator of passenger and cargo aircraft, Air France and KLM are subject to compliance with these provisions. 50 Table of Contents Finally, the Chicago Convention established the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) which in 1947 became the aviation division of the United Nations. Within the framework of the ICAO, participant states establish the international technical regulations applicable to civil aviation. The Rome Convention The Rome Convention (1952) regulates third party damages. The Netherlands has not ratified the Rome Convention and regulation of third party damages is governed in the Netherlands by general negligence rules in accordance with Article 162 of Book 6 of the Dutch Civil Code. France has not ratified the Rome Convention and regulation of third party damages is governed in France in accordance with the principles of article L.141 of the French Civil Aviation Code (Code de l’aviation civile). Following the events of September 11, 2001, certain members of the ICAO advocated the amendment and modernization of the Rome Convention. As of the date of this annual report, no such amendment or modernization had been implemented. IATA In addition to the inter-state regulatory framework, scheduled air transport companies created IATA in 1945 in Havana, Cuba. This organization holds a mandate to establish resolutions for the air transport profession and to supply participant members with a forum for matters concerning regulation of its members on international routes (on-board service, travel documentation safety, security, navigation and flight operations, the development of communication standards, and administrative procedures). Open Sky Agreements Air traffic with the U.S. has been liberalized by several states, including France, the Netherlands and a number of other E.U. Member States, by way of so-called open sky agreements. Discussions arose between the E.U. and its Member States on whether it was lawful for them to enter into these agreements. The European Commission sued some Member States before the European Court of Justice (the ECJ) and the ECJ delivered a judgment on November 5, 2002, stating that Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Austria and Germany had infringed upon the European Community’s powers with respect to the conclusion of certain international agreements that are binding upon the European Community. In addition, these Member States and the United Kingdom were also found to have violated the rules on the right of establishment embodied in Article 43 of the Treaty of Rome by excluding, in their open sky agreements with the U.S., air carriers established in the other Member States but not majority-owned and effectively controlled by nationals of such States from the benefit of national treatment in the host Member State. The European Commission believes that the November 5, 2002 judgments have implications not only for the specific agreements concerned, but for all existing bilateral air services agreements and for the negotiation of new agreements. On July 20, 2004, the Commission announced that it was not satisfied that the Member States were complying with the judgments of the ECJ and that, accordingly, it had issued letters of formal notice to the eight Member States over their failure to comply with the judgments. In 1992, the United States and the State of the Netherlands had agreed to expand their bilateral Air Transport Agreement to create an open sky agreement. That agreement permitted KLM to obtain antitrust immunity in the United States for joint action with Northwest Airlines. Following challenges raised by the European Commission, the ECJ ruled that certain provisions of similar open sky agreements between other E.U. Member States and the U.S. were in violation of the Commission’s exclusive external competence. As a result, on July 20, 2004, the Commission announced that it had decided to bring a case before the ECJ against the State of the Netherlands challenging the allegedly discriminatory language in its open skies agreement with the U.S. In 2001, the United States and the French State entered into an open sky agreement, which liberalized air traffic with the U.S. and permitted Air France to obtain antitrust immunity in the United States for joint action with Delta Air Lines. On July 20, 2004, the Commission announced that it had decided to initiate new 51 Table of Contents proceedings against three Member States, including the French State, for failure to fulfill their obligations under the Treaty through having bilateral agreements with the U.S., which contain allegedly discriminatory language similar to that in agreements condemned by the ECJ in November 2002. Following the November 5, 2002 judgments, in June 2003, the 15 E.U. Member States gave the European Commission a mandate to negotiate with the United States the creation of an open aviation area providing freedom of access on both sides of the Atlantic. Representatives from the United States and Europe thereafter conducted negotiations and prepared a draft package for submission to the Member States. In June 2004 the Member States decided that the draft package negotiated with the U.S. authorities was unacceptable. At March 31, 2005, negotiations had not resumed between the United States and Europe on these matters. The Member States also gave the European Commission a so-called horizontal mandate to negotiate a European nationality clause in bilateral agreements and with third countries on behalf of the E.U. Member States, and talks have begun with several non-E.U. States. European Regulation Liberalization In 1987, the European Commission undertook to create common European air transport regulations. These consist of three sets of measures known as the First, Second and Third Packages. The Third Package (1992) included measures aimed at putting an end to certain aspects of the monopolies of various national airline companies. As a result, airlines licensed by any EEA Member State, including Air France and KLM, now have free access to all routes (subject to certain limited technical exceptions) within the EEA, and capacity restrictions on such routes are no longer permissible. On April 1, 1997, a single European airspace was established within which any European airline may freely operate on any routes within the E.U. Member States. In particular, European airlines may freely practice cabotage (i.e., transporting passengers or cargo from one city to another, either within a Member State or between Member States other than the airlines’ home country). In addition, any resident of an E.U. Member State may hold an interest in the share capital of any E.U. registered airline company, provided such interest holder is not acting as a front for a beneficial owner who is not a citizen of an E.U. Member State. This European regulatory framework does not prevent the E.U. Member States from participation in the ICAO, nor does it conflict with the principles and regulations established under the Chicago Convention. Rather it aims at creating a homogeneous regulatory framework for all European air transporters within the international regulatory framework. Additionally, E.U. Member States remain subject to all their international obligations in relation to air transport outside the E.U. The E.U. regulations establish the following principles: • satisfaction of the criteria established by the European authorities (Regulation No. 2407/92) prior to obtaining an air operator certificate and a license, • freedom of access to routes within the E.U. Member States to Community carriers (Regulation No. 2408/92), and • the ability of airlines to fix their own fares (Regulation No. 2409/92). Competition Relevant E.U. regulations have for several years established the uniform application of the European competition rules (Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty of Rome) for all airlines operating air transport services within the E.U. as well as the rules concerning the granting of State-aid (Articles 87 and 89 of the E.C. Treaty). 52 Table of Contents The European Commission’s jurisdiction to apply Articles 81 and 82 to air transport between Community airports and third countries was extended with effect May 1, 2004 and, using these new powers, the Commission is currently reviewing the impact of the SkyTeam alliance on competition. The European regulatory framework also enables the European Commission to grant block exemptions from E.U. competition rules for certain kinds of agreements, decisions and concerted practices concerning the following: • the joint planning and coordination of flight schedules between E.U. airports; • consultations on tariffs for the carriage of passengers, baggage and freight on scheduled air services; • joint operations on new, less heavily traveled air services; • slot allocation and airport scheduling; and • joint purchase, development and operation of computerized reservation systems relating to timetabling, reservations and ticketing by air transport undertakings. Single European Sky On October 10, 2001, the European Commission adopted a package of proposals on air traffic management designed to create a “Single European Sky” by December 31, 2004. This package sets out the objectives of the Single European Sky and its operating principles, based on six main lines of action: joint management of airspace; establishment of a strong Community regulator; gradual integration of civilian and military airspace management; institutional integration of the E.U. regulatory bodies and Eurocontrol; introduction of appropriate modern technology; and better coordination of human resources policy in the air traffic control sector. In order to accelerate the creation of the Single European Sky, the Commission also adopted three specific measures relating to the provision of air navigation services, organization and use of airspace and interoperability of equipment. The creation of a Single European Sky should optimize use of European airspace, with improvements in such areas as air traffic delays, flight safety, security and growth. On December 5, 2002, the Council of E.U. Transport Ministers reached an agreement on the Single European Sky Package. Following a conciliation procedure between the Council of E.U. Transport Ministers and the European Parliament, an agreement was reached on December 9, 2003 covering the package of legislation laying down the objectives and operating principles for the Single European Sky. The implementation of the Single European Package continued during spring 2005. Miscellaneous European regulations address a variety of aviation-related issues other than those concerning competition, including air traffic noise, denied boarding, take-off and landing slots and air carrier liability, as described in this annual report. See “—Other Regulatory and Legal Issues Relating to Air France’s Operations”. Air Transport Regulation and Legislation French Regulation Air transport in France is governed by the French Civil Aviation Code (Code de l’Aviation Civile) of 1948, as amended, which contains the legal and regulatory provisions applicable to aircraft, airports, regular air transport and flight personnel. In addition, set forth in the French Civil Aviation Code are the provisions applicable to Air France and ADP as well as those governing aviation fees. The French Civil Aviation Code has 53 Table of Contents been frequently revised to harmonize French law with international and European regulations. Therefore the applicable regulatory regime in France is the result of (i) national law; (ii) the application of regulations promulgated by the European Council and the European Commission; (iii) European directives incorporated into French law; (iv) air service agreements to which Air France is a party and (v) the international conventions to which France is a party. In particular, with respect to third party liability, article L. 141 of the French Civil Aviation Code applies because France has not ratified the Rome Convention. This article provides the following: (i) no special regime is established to determine the liability of a pilot, or of the person or entity operating an aircraft, for damage caused by an aircraft in flight to another aircraft also in flight (therefore general French law applies to determine liability); and (ii) the person or entity operating an aircraft is strictly liable for damage caused by the aircraft’s movements, or by any object originating from the aircraft, to any person or goods on the ground. This liability can only be reduced or eliminated where there is proof that the victim was at fault. Dutch Regulation Air transport in the Netherlands is governed by two main legislative acts applicable to aviation, the Aviation Law (Wet Luchtvaart) and the Dutch Aviation Act (Luchtvaartwet). The Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water Management administers both of these pieces of legislation which define the nature and extent of the regulation of airports and of civil aircraft operating within and/or registered in the Netherlands. These pieces of legislation additionally provide the framework for safety regulation, air traffic control rules, aircraft airworthiness, pilot competency certificates, airport and air navigation standards and environmental protection measures. Other Regulatory and Legal Issues Cooperation Agreement with Alitalia On July 27, 2001, Air France and the Italian air carrier Alitalia entered into a number of cooperation agreements. The agreements pursue the double aim of integrating Alitalia into the world-wide SkyTeam alliance created by Air France, Aéromexico, Delta Air Lines and Korean Airlines in 2000 (and since expanded to include Continental, CSA Czech Airlines, KLM Royal Dutch and Northwest), and of building a far-reaching, long-term strategic bilateral alliance based on close cooperation between the parties principally on services between France and Italy. The agreements also interconnect the two airlines’ respective hubs at Roissy-CDG, Rome Fiumicino and Milan Malpensa airports. On April 7, 2004, the European Commission adopted a decision formally exempting the cooperation agreements as notified from the Article 81(1) prohibition from November 12, 2001 to November 11, 2007, subject to compliance with certain commitments annexed to the Commission’s decision. These commitments included, notably, a commitment to release take-off and landing slots to competitors at certain airports in specified circumstances. In July 2004, easyJet Ltd announced that it had initiated proceedings before the European Court of First Instance against the European Commission challenging its decision to exempt the Air France/Alitalia cooperation agreements. The proceedings are currently pending as of the date of this annual report. Allocation of Slots Access to the world’s main international airports is regulated by the allotment of time slots. Slots correspond to the ability of a carrier to land at, or take-off from, an airport at a specified time and date. Access to many European and Asian airports is regulated through slots, including airports in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Milan, Madrid, Amsterdam, Bangkok, Tokyo, Hong Kong and Singapore. In the United States, access to airports is controlled by regulations based on the allotment of boarding gates (e.g., Los Angeles, San Francisco) with the exception of New York’s John F. Kennedy airport and Chicago’s O’Hare airport, to which access is regulated by slots. 54 Table of Contents Due to saturation at several major European airports (primarily at peak hours), all air carriers must obtain flight slots, which are allocated in accordance with the terms and conditions defined in European Council Regulation No. 95/93 of January 18, 1993 most recently amended by Regulation No. 793/2004. Under Regulation No. 95/93, each Member State, in relation to all airports for which it is responsible, is required to designate an individual or an entity responsible for coordinating the allocation of the slots and the monitoring of their use. Such individual or entity must have specialized knowledge in the area of coordinating aircraft routes and of the operational environment of air transport companies, and is designated after consultation between the relevant Member State, the airline companies which use the airports in question, their representatives and the airport authorities. As a general rule, a slot that has been operated by an air carrier entitles that air carrier to claim the same slot in the next equivalent scheduling period (grandfather rights). Slots are allotted twice a year, at the time airline flight schedules for the relevant IATA season are prepared by the airport coordinator. New or unused slots are generally allocated on a 50-50% basis among historic airline operators and new entrants at that airport. At the close of this preliminary allotment (pre-coordination) process, a conference with virtually all the airport coordinators and airline companies is organized, in order to enable airline companies to: • coordinate the slots they are allotted in different airports, so that when a flight links two airports, the slots granted on each platform are compatible with one another, and • exchange slots among themselves in the event that those originally allotted by the coordinators are unsatisfactory. Pursuant to Regulation No. 95/93, air carriers must continue to use allocated slots at a minimum of 80% of their level of use during the period such slots were attributed. Slots not used at such levels are transferred to a “pool” where they become available to other carriers and are lost to the carrier to whom they were initially assigned. Regulation No. 95/93 also provides that exceptional circumstances, namely unforeseeable and irresistible cases outside the air carrier’s control, may affect the use of slots. Environmental Protection and Anti-Noise Standards Under both French and Dutch law, an aircraft operator is subject to liability for damages caused by noise emissions from its aircraft. In France, an independent administrative body, the French Airport Noise Control Authority (Autorité de Contrôle des nuisances aéroportuaires), may recommend restrictions on the operation of certain aircraft and impose administrative fines (of up to €12,196) on aircraft operators or owners for non-compliance with anti-noise rules at take-off or landing to or from French airports. In compliance with E.U. directive no. 2002/30 of March 26, 2002, restrictions on the operation of the so-called Chapter 3 noisiest aircraft (as defined by French regulations) were decided at Roissy-CDG. At March 31, 2005, 15 of Air France’s aircraft were potentially affected by these restrictions, and they are scheduled to be gradually withdrawn from the fleet by 2008 or modified to be in compliance. Aircraft engine emissions, including emission of greenhouse gases, are also regulated by national and international rules. Aircraft engines are required to meet the engine certification standards of Annex 16 of the Chicago Convention. The Kyoto protocol, which has not yet entered into force, requires industrialized countries that are listed in Annex I to the Chicago Convention to reduce their national emissions of six greenhouse gases, the most relevant to aviation being carbon dioxide (CO2). In anticipation of the possible application of the Kyoto protocol to international aviation through an international or European regulation, Air France and KLM have implemented a fuel conservation plan, which, together with fleet renewal, is intended to reduce jet fuel consumption throughout flight, and to contribute to reducing gaseous emissions. The action plan also provides for instructions concerning taxiing on arrival, and limiting the use of auxiliary power units. 55 Table of Contents Air France and KLM’s operations on industrial and maintenance sites, including the handling, storage, and disposal of raw materials and wastes, are subject to comprehensive laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, and transportation of hazardous materials, air emissions and waste-water discharges, and hazardous substance pollution clean-up and remediation. Air France and KLM are also subject to regulations regarding the control and removal of asbestos-containing material, and the indemnification of potential exposure of employees to asbestos. Air France’s industrial operations in France, and in particular its maintenance activities, are subject to French laws and regulations applicable to classified industrial sites (installations classées), which require users of such classified industrial sites to notify authorities or obtain authorization prior to beginning operations. Among other obligations, the operator of a classified industrial site remains liable for any remediation of the site. Air France Industries has moved to a new hanger in Toulouse Blagnac and will no longer operate the Montaudran site, which will be completely cleaned before it is turned over. Air France has undertaken renovation work at its Toulouse Montaudran and Vilgénis sites to remove old pollution detected in these locations. Insurance and Air Carrier liability In the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States, governmental insurance schemes in many Member States took on insurance cover which was lost when insurance companies cancelled their policies based on war risk clauses. In order to restore confidence both in the aviation and in the insurance sectors, the European Commission put forward a legislative proposal on September 24, 2002 to introduce into E.U. law minimum insurance requirements applicable to all air carriers and aircraft operators flying within, into, out of or over the European Union. This proposal incorporates the main rules foreseen in various international conventions into E.U. law, harmonizing the rules applicable in the E.U. territory and making them compulsory for any carrier operating in Europe. It also aims at improving the current rules on third party liability. Air Transport Taxes Airlines are subject to a certain number of air transport taxes which are divided into air navigation taxes and airport taxes. Air navigation taxes include routing taxes (for over-flights) and terminal taxes (for air navigation within a 20 kilometer radius of a departure or destination airport). Airport taxes include aircraft taxes (in particular landing fees) and passenger taxes. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France paid a total of €913 million in landing fees and en route charges. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, KLM paid a total of €547 million in landing fees and en route charges. Following the attacks of September 11, 2001, air transport taxes rose sharply to offset costs resulting from enhanced security procedures. In addition, substantial fee increases were approved by air traffic control organizations and airport authorities in April 2002 and January 2003 to offset lost revenues associated with reduced traffic levels following the war in Iraq and the outbreak of SARS. Legal and Regulatory Matters in Connection with the Exchange Offer Air France and KLM made certain commitments to the European Commission to secure its approval of the combination. On February 11, 2004, the European Commission adopted a formal decision declaring the combination compatible with the common market subject to full compliance with the Undertakings. In May 2004, easyJet announced that it had initiated proceedings before the European Court of First Instance against the European Commission approving the combination. Those proceedings are pending as of the date of this annual report. 56 Table of Contents Definitions and Industry Terms ADP Aéroports de Paris. AEA Association of European Airlines. Available seat kilometers (ASKs) the total number of seats available for the transportation of passengers multiplied by the number of kilometers those seats are flown. Available ton kilometers (ATKs) the number of tons of capacity available for cargo multiplied by the kilometers flown. Cargo freight and mail. Cargo load factor revenue ton-kilometers for cargo expressed as a percentage of available cargo ton-kilometers. DGAC Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile, the French civil aviation authority. Domestic flights short- and medium-haul flights between destinations within France. EEA European Economic Area, which includes the 25 E.U. member states plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. Freedoms the right of an airline, obtained through a bilateral treaty, to operate in the airspace and on the territory of a country other than its home country. The eight freedoms can be summarized as follows: (1) Departure from home country, right to fly over airspace of foreign country; (2) Departure from home country, right to make a stopover in foreign country for technical reasons, without passenger embarkation or disembarkation (right of transit); (3) Departure from home country, right of disembarkation for passengers from the home country; (4) Departure from foreign country, right of embarkation for passengers traveling to the home country; (5) Departure from home country, right of embarkation and disembarkation of passengers in two successive foreign countries; (6) Departure from home country, right of embarkation for passengers traveling to the home country, then on to a third country; 57 Table of Contents (7) Departure from foreign country, right of embarkation for passengers traveling to a third country, without a stopover in the home country; and (8) Departure from home country, right of embarkation of passengers from foreign country traveling to another destination in the same foreign country (cabotage). IATA International Air Transport Association. Its membership includes schedule and non-scheduled airlines. Long-haul flights intercontinental flights between destinations in Europe, North, Central and South America, the Far East and Australia and the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa. Medium-haul flights flights between destinations in Europe and North Africa. Load factors revenue ton-kilometers expressed as a percentage of available ton-kilometers. Passenger load factor revenue passenger-kilometers expressed as a percentage of available seat-kilometers. Revenue passenger-kilometer (RPK) one fare paying passenger transported one kilometer; revenue passenger-kilometers are computed by multiplying the number of revenue passengers by the kilometers they are flown. Revenue ton-kilometer (RTK) one ton of paid cargo traffic transported one kilometer; revenue ton-kilometers are computed by multiplying metric ton of revenue traffic (passenger, foreign and mail) by the kilometers this traffic is flown. Slot authorization given by an airport operator to take off or land at a particular airport during a specified time period. Summer season as defined by IATA: typically runs from the last Saturday in March to the last Saturday in October. Winter season as defined by IATA: typically runs from the first Sunday after the last Saturday in October to the Friday before the last Saturday in March. Yield passenger yield means unit revenue per passenger-kilometer; corresponds to total revenues from scheduled passengers divided by the total number of revenue passenger-kilometer. 58 Table of Contents Item 5: OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements as of and for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the Air France consolidated financial statements as of and for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, together with the notes thereto, in each case, included elsewhere in this annual report. The consolidated financial statements are presented in euro and have been prepared in accordance with French GAAP. We will apply International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, to prepare our consolidated financial statements for financial years and interim periods beginning on or after April 1, 2005. See “—Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to Air France-KLM”. Basis of Presentation Air France successfully completed its exchange offer for all the outstanding common shares of KLM on May 3, 2004 and Air France-KLM was created in September 2004. As of the date of this annual report, we hold 97.3% of the economic rights and 49% of the share capital and voting rights in respect of KLM’s common shares. Air France-KLM’s consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 include the financial condition and results of operations of KLM for 11 months and are not directly comparable to the consolidated financial statements of Air France as of and for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003. Accordingly, in order to provide for a more meaningful comparison of our consolidated financial statements for the financial years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, we have prepared unaudited consolidated pro forma financial information in accordance with French GAAP for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, which includes the results of our business combination with KLM and the exchange offer as if they had taken place on May 1, 2003. We have published this pro-forma financial information as part of our consolidated financial statements in order to satisfy our reporting requirements with our primary French regulator, the Autorité des marchés financiers. The pro forma financial information is included in this annual report for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily reflect the combined operating results or financial position that we could have recorded on such dates or for such periods. The discussion of the results of operations contained in this “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” includes a discussion of our published results for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 compared to our pro-forma and actual (Air France only) results for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 as well as the results of Air France for each of the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003. Overview Air France-KLM is one of the largest airline groups in the world, ranking first worldwide in terms of international passengers carried as of December 31, 2003, according to IATA, and first among airlines in Europe in terms of traffic (revenue passenger-kilometers) for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, according to the Association of European Airlines (AEA), with an overall market share of 27.7%. The combination of Air France and KLM has also created a European and global leader in cargo activities. We currently rank second in the world (excluding integrators) in cargo activity, according to IATA. Air France and KLM are also active in the field of aircraft maintenance and are one of the world’s leading suppliers of maintenance services. Although Air France-KLM continued to operate in a difficult international environment during the financial year ended March 31, 2005, total operating revenues were €19,078 million, an increase of 7.3% from the prior year on a pro forma basis. In addition to the continuing impact of the attacks of September 11, 2001, the consequences of the war in Iraq in 2002 and the SARS epidemic commencing in 2003, the airline industry has been facing a sharp increase in fuel prices since the spring of 2004. While the recovery in airline traffic first witnessed in the second half of 2003 has continued in 2004 and the first half of 2005, with growth of 59 Table of Contents approximately 11% in 2004, according to IATA, the air transport sector has had to face soaring oil prices, which have generated industry-wide losses of approximately $5 billion according to IATA, which had been estimating industry losses of approximately $3 billion for 2004. The air transport sector spent $62 billion on jet fuel in 2004, which had the effect of counterbalancing most cost-cutting efforts of individual airlines and the impact of a general economic recovery. Including the losses for 2004 estimated by IATA, the total losses from 2001 to 2004 are expected to reach approximately $36 billion, which exceeds the total value created within the air transport sector from 1978 to 2000. These trends have nevertheless affected Europe, Asia and the United States differently as explained below under “Airline Industry Trends—Geographic Trends”. The various sources of our operating revenues are described below. Air Transport We generate operating revenues mainly from air transport operations, which consist of passenger and cargo operations. Passenger Passenger revenues consist of scheduled passenger and other passenger revenues. Scheduled passenger operating revenues are derived from passengers transported on flights that have the Air France-KLM code, including flights that are operated by other airlines pursuant to code-sharing agreements. Other passenger operating revenues are derived from commissions from SkyTeam alliance partnership arrangements, revenue from block-seat sales and information systems revenues. Cargo Cargo revenues are subdivided into freight transportation and other cargo revenues. Revenues from freight transportation consist of the transportation of cargo on flights that have the Air France-KLM code, including flights that are operated by other airlines pursuant to code-sharing agreements. Other cargo revenues derive principally from sales of cargo capacity to third parties. Maintenance Maintenance revenues are generated principally by the Air France Industries division and the KLM Engineering & Maintenance division which perform aircraft maintenance for the Air France-KLM group’s two fleets and provide maintenance services to more than 100 third-party clients throughout the world. Other Other revenues principally consist of revenues from KLM’s charter business through its subsidiary transavia.com and from the catering activities of the Servair subsidiaries of Air France and KLM Catering. Geographic Mix Air France-KLM has defined five geographical regions into which passenger and cargo revenues are separately subdivided on the basis of origin of sale and destination. These regions are Europe and North Africa, Caribbean, French Guiana and Indian Ocean, Africa and Middle East, Americas and Polynesia, and Asia and New Caledonia. Airline Industry Trends Increased Fuel Prices As noted above, since spring 2004 the airline industry has faced sharp increases in fuel prices, which IATA expects to increase. In response, in May 2004, Air France introduced a surcharge of €3 per ticket and KLM a 60 Table of Contents surcharge of €4 per ticket. In August 2004, each airline introduced a further surcharge based on destination, which varied between €2 and €12 per Air France ticket and €2 and €3 per KLM ticket. A further surcharge for long-haul flights was introduced in October 2004 of €11 per Air France long-haul ticket and €7 per long-haul KLM ticket. An additional surcharge was introduced in April 2005 of between €1 and €8 per Air France ticket and between €3 and €6 per KLM ticket. A new surcharge was announced on July 4, 2005 with effect from July 19, 2005 of €1 on Air France domestic routes, €2 on Air France medium-haul routes and €4 on Air France long-haul routes for all tickets issued in France and €14 per KLM long-haul ticket. Air France and KLM have also introduced a fuel surcharge on their cargo operations. In keeping with their strategy of implementing the synergies from their business combination, and because the surcharges have only partially covered the increased fuel prices, each Air France-KLM group business has generated synergies exceeding those which were estimated at the time of the exchange offer and have implemented, in the case of Air France, a three-year savings plan, and in the case of KLM, a 2003 restructuring plan. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Business of Air France-KLM—Strategy—Controlling Costs and Improving Productivity”. The impact of the increase in the cost of jet fuel on our results of operations has been partially offset by the application of our hedging policies, which resulted in a gain of €372 million or 14% of our jet fuel expenses for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. We nevertheless do not hedge all of our exposure to increases in fuel costs. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. The Impact of September 11, 2001 Terrorist Attacks, the War in Iraq and the Outbreak of SARS The terrorist attacks in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 have had a significant negative impact on economic, political and market conditions around the world. Notwithstanding the recovery in traffic first witnessed in the second half of 2003 and continuing through 2004 and the first half of 2005, following the attacks, airline companies have experienced significant losses and incurred substantial additional costs, due principally to significantly higher costs of insurance, significantly higher costs of passenger and aircraft security, and decreases in demand for air travel. Airlines have also experienced declines in the value of their aircraft assets. The global economy during the year ended March 31, 2004 and, to a lesser extent, the year ended March 31, 2005, was strained, and the airline industry disrupted, by geopolitical tensions surrounding the war in Iraq, which put downward pressure on worldwide passenger traffic. U.S. airline companies, which are largely dependent on U.S. domestic demand, particularly suffered from the September 11 attacks and from the war in Iraq. Finally, the outbreak of SARS had the effect of sharply reducing airline traffic to and from Asia in the last month of the financial year ended March 31, 2003 and during the first half of the financial year ended March 31, 2004, with traffic plummeting between 40-50% at the height of the crisis. In response to the crisis facing the airline industry following the events of September 11, 2001, the war in Iraq and the outbreak of SARS, as well as increased fuel costs, airlines have been forced to implement new cost-saving measures, reorganize their network capacities to reply to shifting demand and overall reduced traffic and implement new growth and fleet strategies to allow for increased adaptability to volatile economic and industry conditions. Geographic Trends Recent airline industry trends in the three main geographic zones — Europe, the United States and Asia — have nevertheless differed significantly. Asian airlines, after having suffered significantly diminished growth in 2003 and 2004 as a result of the SARS epidemic, have generally grown strongly. In the United States, most airlines have not been profitable since 2001. Confronted with structural problems, including significant wage increases in 2000 and 2001 and competition from low-cost companies which have 61 Table of Contents conquered nearly 30% of the North American domestic market, U.S. airlines are facing higher fuel prices without the ability to implement hedging policies as in general their financial positions are too weak. According to IATA, between 2000 and 2002, debt of the leading American air carriers doubled from $27 billion to $56 billion. Despite federal assistance of several billion dollars and drastic cost-cutting plans and wage concessions, the U.S. air carriers accumulated $7 billion in losses in 2004 and recorded new record losses in the first quarter of 2005. In Europe, airlines that are members of the AEA have benefited from the recovery in traffic after the SARS epidemic. During 2004, traffic grew 9.0% with a 7.3% increase in capacity. Slightly more than 307 million passengers, representing an increase of 4.8% over 2003, traveled to and from the 49 countries included within Europe as defined by the AEA. In 2003, the recovery differed depending on the airline in question. Non-U.S. airlines have also had some protection from rising fuel prices because of the weakness of the U.S. dollar, particularly against the euro. Low-Cost Air Carriers In recent years, the airline industry has seen the emergence of low-cost air carriers that typically engage in aggressive marketing and compete with all transportation carriers. In Europe, there were over 35 low-cost airlines in 2004, but there are two dominant low-cost airlines — Ryanair and easyJet — which have over 50% market share of the low-cost market segment. We believe that the growth of low-cost airlines has not occurred through a transfer of traffic from scheduled airlines but through the creation of a new market and the winning by low-cost airlines of a large percentage of the general growth in traffic among price-sensitive passengers. The European low cost airlines are present in the five major domestic markets (but unevenly so) and on intra-European routes, primarily from Great Britain to Germany, France and Italy. While low-cost airlines are present in the French domestic market, the strong presence of the French high speed rail network, as well as the Air France domestic shuttle, has limited the interest and impact of low cost airlines. The presence and growth of low-cost airlines in Europe are likely to continue to heighten demand and increase competition for travelers who are price, but not time, sensitive. We have been responding to this increased demand by modifying our European product offering to suit customer demand for a simplified service offering the lowest possible fares on short routes. Cyclicality Both the airline passenger and freight industries are highly sensitive to general economic conditions. Our business and results of operations are subject to changing economic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in France and in our other principal markets worldwide. Because a substantial portion of airline travel (both business and leisure) is discretionary, the industry tends to experience severe adverse financial results during general economic downturns. Downturns in the airline industry are characterized by excess capacity and lower prices. In such downward cycles, we may also be required to take delivery of new aircraft that we have agreed to purchase (even if they are not required for their current operations), or may be unable to dispose of unnecessary aircraft under financially acceptable terms. International air freight traffic is characterized by short cycles and extreme sensitivity to the economic environment. Seasonality The airline industry tends to be seasonal in nature. The demand for scheduled passenger services is strongest in the summer months and weakest during the winter months. The reverse is true for cargo operations. This generally results in seasonal fluctuations in revenues. Therefore, our results for the first half of any financial year (April 1 to September 30) are not necessarily indicative of its results for the full financial year. High Level of Fixed Costs The nature of the airline business is such that a substantial percentage of a carrier’s operating expenses are fixed costs that do not vary proportionally based on its load factors, the number of passengers or cargo carried, 62 Table of Contents the number of flights flown or aircraft utilization rates. Thus, a minor change in a carrier’s unit revenues by available seat kilometer and load factors can have a major effect on a carrier’s results of operations, and the operating results can also be substantially affected by relatively minor changes in aircraft utilization rates. This high operating leverage further accentuates revenue fluctuations prevailing in the airline industry. In addition, we may face difficulty in adjusting its cost structure to respond to fluctuations in operating revenues. While we are continuously trying to improve our cost structure, there can be no assurance that the factors described above will not have a negative influence on our future results of operations. Critical Accounting Policies Our accounting policies are described in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies that reflect significant estimates, judgments and uncertainties and potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions of conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about revenue, expenses and the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Published results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We use the following critical accounting policies in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue and any related commissions for both passenger and cargo operations when transportation is provided or, for passenger operations, when a ticket expires unused. The amount of passenger ticket sales and commissions not yet recognized as revenue is reflected as deferred revenue in “Advance ticket sales” in our consolidated balance sheet. We perform monthly evaluations of this amount to assess the adequacy of the deferred revenue. Any adjustments, which can be significant, are included in results of operations for the periods in which the evaluations are completed. For purposes of revenue recognition, unused tickets generally expire 18 months following the issuance date. As a result, we make estimates of tickets that will expire unused based on historical trends in order to estimate the amount of unused ticket revenue to be recognized at the time of sale. Changes to these estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. Accounting for Pension Plans and Lump Sum Retirement Payments We calculate our obligations in respect of pension plans and lump-sum retirement payments using the projected credit method, taking into consideration specific economic conditions prevailing in the various countries concerned. These obligations are covered either by pension and/or plan assets. Provisions for these plans and schemes are accounted for in a manner substantially identical to International Accounting Standards No. 19 “Employee Benefits” (IAS 19). Under IAS 19, pension expense is recorded over the service lives of the employees participating in the plans. Pension expense as determined by IAS 19 is generally independent of any pension funding decisions made by us. We recognized pension expenses related to defined benefit pension plans of €282 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and €64 million on a published basis for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Our accounting for pension plans requires us to make a number of assumptions that affect the consolidated financial statements. We believe the most critical are the assumed discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We determine our assumed discount rate on the measurement date for each plan (generally December 31). This rate is determined primarily by review of the interest rates on high-quality long-term bonds in the 63 Table of Contents appropriate jurisdictions (generally bonds rated AA or higher by a recognized rating agency). Nominal interest rates vary widely worldwide due to exchange rates and local inflation factors. The weighted average assumed discount rate for Air France-KLM’s worldwide defined benefit plans was 4.5% at March 31, 2005. The fair value of Air France-KLM’s plan assets for total funded plans increased to €10,781 million as of March 31, 2005 from €1,023 million on a published basis at March 31, 2004. This increase was due to the combination with KLM (€8,912 million), historical return on plan assets of €912 million, lowered by the effects of normal contributions and benefit payment amounts of €52 million, and to exchange rate impacts of approximately €14 million for non-euro denominated plan assets. The expected long- term rate of return on plan assets for Air France-KLM’s funded defined benefit plans is based primarily on plan-specific investment studies performed by outside consultants and consideration of recent and historical returns on the assets of each plan. For Euro-zone funded plans, lowering Air France-KLM’s expected long-term rate of return (5.3% as of the March 31, 2005 measurement date) by 25 basis points would increase estimated pension expense for the financial year ended March 31, 2006 by approximately €26 million, including required amortization of actuarial losses. Frequent Flyer Accounting We use a number of estimates in accounting for the Air France Fréquence Plus and the KLM Flying Dutchman frequent flyer programs which we believe are consistent with industry practice. As noted below, we have combined these two programs as of June 1, 2005. We reduce revenue and record a liability for the estimated incremental cost of providing travel awards based on a database of all program participants and consideration of each individual’s outstanding awards balance. Not all program members redeem accumulated miles for flight awards under the plan, and some program members may never redeem accumulated miles. Accordingly, we compute our program liability based on the analysis of previous experience under the program, anticipated behavior of customers, expectations of future awards to be issued, and analysis of current accumulated mileage balances. During the financial years ended March 31, 2003 and 2004, we revised our estimates for computing Fréquence Plus liabilities based on our experience to better reflect anticipated behaviors of our customers. These changes in estimates had a positive impact of €40 million and €23 million on earnings for the financial year ended March 31, 2003 and 2004, respectively. We believe that our estimates are reasonable; however, the published redemption behaviors of program members may differ from those estimates. In anticipation of the combination of Fréquence Plus and KLM Flying Dutchman and the valuation of the new air miles’ redemption assumptions as of June 1, 2005, we have adjusted the estimate of the corresponding obligations of these programs. These changes in estimates had a positive impact of €10 million after tax on earnings for the financial year ending March 31, 2005. Determination of the liability for the costs of providing travel awards also includes the consideration of the incremental costs of fuel, meals, passenger insurance and ticketing. Costs such as aircraft maintenance, labor or overhead allocations are not considered incremental costs, and are not included in our estimates. As of March 31, 2005, the liability for outstanding but unissued awards was €118 million. A change to these costs estimates or assumptions regarding redemption of miles awards under the program could have a significant effect on our liability in the year of change as well as future years. Furthermore, a change to our policy regarding the number of miles required for specific awards could have a significant impact on measurement of this liability. We assess incremental cost estimates and award redemption assumptions on a periodic basis throughout the year. Any known or expected trends in individual components are considered in developing estimates of the expected future incremental costs of awards to be issued under the program. We also sell mileage credits in the Fréquence Plus and the KLM Flying Dutchman programs to participating partners, such as credit card companies and hotels. Income from the sale of mileage is deferred and recognized as 64 Table of Contents “passenger revenue” at the time when transportation is provided, based on estimates of the fair value of tickets to be redeemed. Proceeds from sales of mileage credits in excess of the incremental cost of awards to be issued are recognized in income immediately. Accounting for Major Maintenance Operations French GAAP Accounting Policy Our accounting policy for major maintenance operations is described at note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements. Until March 31, 2002, Air France recorded a provision for maintenance in respect of major airframe inspections, while major engine maintenance, including the substitution of parts with limited useful lives, was recorded as an expense. French GAAP was changed during the financial years 2002 and 2003 to permit and encourage companies to anticipate the adoption of international financial reporting standards in respect of accounting for major maintenance operations. Accordingly, we decided to adopt, for Air France’s financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2003 and subsequent periods and with retrospective application as of April 1, 2002, an individual component approach consistent with international financial reporting standards for the recognition of major maintenance operations on airframes and engines (excluding parts with limited useful lives) under full ownership and capital leases. As a result of this change, estimated major airframe and engine maintenance costs for aircraft under full ownership or capital leases are separated from aircraft acquisition costs and amortized over the period until the next scheduled major maintenance operation. The impact of the change in accounting method on our consolidated financial statements is set forth in note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements. The income statement items affected by the change in accounting method are aircraft maintenance expenses, salaries and related costs, net charge to depreciation and amortization, provisions, gains on disposal of flight equipment, and income tax. The individual component approach requires us to make estimates with respect to the anticipated costs and timing of major airframe and engine operations, changes to which could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our operating lease agreements typically require us either to return an airframe and engine in a certain condition, known as the contractual potential, or to pay or receive a fee based on the actual condition of the airframe and engine upon its return. Consistent with the change in accounting method described above, we changed our accounting policies regarding anticipated restitution of aircraft under operating leases. We record a provision or asset for restitution depending on our estimate of the difference between current airframe and engine condition and the contractual potential. Changes to our estimation of the future actual airframe and engine potential, restitution costs and the time at which such costs would be incurred could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. U.S. GAAP Accounting Policy Under U.S. GAAP, all maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Provision for restitution of aircraft under operating leases is recorded at the time restitution costs are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Impairment of Tangible Long Lived Assets French GAAP Accounting Policy Under French GAAP, when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired, we assess the existence of impairment losses for our entire aircraft fleet under full ownership or capital leases and capitalized spare parts on the basis of their recoverable values. 65 Table of Contents U.S. GAAP Accounting Policy Under U.S. GAAP, when impairment indicators are identified, we make judgments about the level of assets to be grouped for purposes of impairment according to our segment level. We estimate future net cash flows related to the asset group, and record impairment losses on long lived assets held and used when events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amounts of those assets. The impairment loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying amount. Impairment is generally assessed and measured at the segment level. We estimate the undiscounted future cash flows for our asset groups based on models that we also use in making fleet scheduling decisions. These models use projections of passenger yield, fuel costs, labor costs and other relevant factors for the markets where the specific aircraft will operate. Fair values of aircraft is estimated based on information that may be available under the circumstances, including published information from third party sources, current market conditions, the value of similar asset groups and assessment of net present value. Deferred Tax Assets Deferred tax assets relating to temporary timing differences and tax loss carry forwards are recorded to the extent that the taxable entity is likely to generate sufficient taxable income to absorb such temporary differences. We assess the likelihood based on our business plans and reasonable expectations of taxable income and reversals of temporary differences for future years. We had unrecorded deferred tax assets of €388 million as of March 31, 2005 and €251 million as of March 31, 2004. Our net recorded deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2005 and 2004 were €90 million and €96 million, respectively. Changes to our estimation and forecasts of future taxable income could result in material changes to the amount of deferred tax assets recorded. Scope of Consolidation Our consolidated income statement includes the income statements of all companies acquired during the year from the date of acquisition. It also includes the income statements of any companies disposed of during the year up to the date of disposal. As of March 31, 2005, the Air France-KLM group comprised 159 companies, of which 134 are fully consolidated, 3 proportionally consolidated and 21 recorded as equity affiliates. For a full list of companies within the scope of consolidation, see note 34 to our consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 included elsewhere in this annual report. As the exchange offer for KLM common shares closed in May 2004, the Air France-KLM financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2005 include KLM’s results over a period of 11 months (May 2004 to March 2005). As at March 31, 2005, Air France-KLM holds 97.3% of the common shares of KLM stock. On December 30, 2004, Air France transferred its stake in Amadeus France to Amadeus GTD. The net income of Amadeus France and its subsidiary Amadeus France Service had been consolidated within Air France-KLM until this transfer. Measures of Operating Performance We use measures of operating performance in our business which are described below. The operating performance data are unaudited. For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, we have presented our measures of operating performance on a consolidated basis, whereas, prior to the business combination, for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, such information was compiled separately by Air France and by KLM. To the extent operating data is presented for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, we have, where indicated, presented such information on a pro forma basis to enable a better appreciation of the operating performance data that might have been achieved if the closing date of the exchange offer had taken effect on May 1, 2003. This 66 Table of Contents information is included solely for illustrative purposes and, accordingly, does not necessarily reflect the combined operating data that we could have recorded on the dates or for the periods indicated. To the extent operating data is presented for the financial year ended March 31, 2003, such information is for Air France only. Traffic (RPK and RTK) Passenger traffic, or the number of fare-paying passengers transported, is measured in terms of revenue per passenger-kilometers (RPK), which correspond to the total number of paying passengers multiplied by the total number of kilometers flown. Cargo traffic, or the amount of freight transported, is measured in terms of revenue ton-kilometers (RTK), which correspond to total metric tons of paid cargo carried multiplied by the total number of kilometers flown. Capacity (ASK and ATK) Passenger capacity, or the number of seats offered, is measured in terms of available seat-kilometers (ASK), which correspond to the total number of seats available for paying passengers multiplied by the number of kilometers flown. Cargo capacity is measured in terms of available ton-kilometers (ATK), which correspond to the total amount of tons of cargo that could be transported multiplied by the number of kilometers flown. Load Factor The ratio between revenue passenger kilometers and available seat-kilometers is the passenger load factor. The ratio between revenue ton-kilometers and available ton-kilometers is the cargo load factor. Unit Revenues Unit revenue per available seat kilometer (ASK) corresponds to total revenues from scheduled passenger activity divided by the total number of ASK in a given period. Yield Unit revenue per passenger-kilometer, or yield, corresponds to total revenues from scheduled passengers divided by the total number of RPK in a given period. Network Mix and Passenger Mix Our unit revenue per ASK for our scheduled passenger operations varies mainly due to the global economy and competitive pressures affecting price, exchange rates, load factors and the mix of long-haul to medium-haul and short-haul flights, or “network mix”. Unit revenues on long-haul flights are proportionately lower than those on medium-haul flights. Thus, in period-to-period comparisons, a change in the proportion of long-haul to medium-haul and domestic flights, or a “network mix effect”, will tend to have a positive or negative effect on revenues depending on the increase or decrease of long-haul flights relative to medium-haul and domestic flights. Unit revenue per ASK is also affected by the ratio of high contribution passengers to low contribution passengers, or passenger mix. 67 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of Financial Years Ended March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2004 Where indicated, the following discussion of our results of operations is based on both pro forma and published (Air France only) results for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Pro forma results of operations reflect the effect of the business combination with KLM as if it had occurred on May 1, 2003. Total Operating Revenues The following table sets forth operating revenues by type of activity for the financial years ended March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2004 (on a pro forma and published basis), and the percentage change between the 2005 revenues and the pro forma 2004 revenues: Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004Pro forma Change 2004 Air Francepublished (in € millions, except percentages) Scheduled passenger 14,085 13,156 7.1 % 9,465 Other passenger 919 888 3.5 % 795 Total passenger 15,004 14,044 6.8 % 10,260 Scheduled cargo 2,300 2,084 10.4 % 1,264 Other cargo 192 193 (0.5 )% 148 Total cargo 2,492 2,277 9.4 % 1,412 Maintenance 777 747 4.0 % 508 Other 805 714 12.7 % 157 Total Operating Revenues 19,078 17,782 7.3 % 12,337 Our total operating revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 7.3% compared to the previous financial year, increasing to €19,078 million from €17,782 million on a pro forma basis (€12,337 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, revenues from passenger and cargo operations, which represented 91.7% of our consolidated revenues, increased by 7.2% compared to revenues from passenger and cargo operations for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. Revenues from passenger operations (78.6% of total operating revenues) increased 6.8% compared to such revenues for the prior period on a pro forma basis, with a 7.1% increase in scheduled passenger revenues and an increase of 3.5% in other passenger revenues. The increases were principally due to the recovery from the negative effects of the war in Iraq and the SARS epidemic during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 as well as the imposition of fuel surcharges described herein by both Air France and KLM to partially offset the substantial increase in oil prices. Revenues from cargo operations (13.1% of total operating revenues) increased by 9.4% compared to such revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis with a 10.4% increase in scheduled cargo revenues and a 0.5% decline in other cargo revenues. The overall increase in total cargo revenues resulted primarily from the increase in traffic following the recovery from the effects of the war in Iraq and the SARS epidemic during the financial year ended March 31, 2004, the imposition of such fuel surcharges, the progressive weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the euro and the end of certain textile industry quotas in Asia. 68 Table of Contents Maintenance revenues increased 4.0% compared to such revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis primarily as a result of the general recovery in the airline industry. Other revenues increased by 12.7% compared to such revenues for the prior period on a pro forma basis due to increases in revenues from catering services and from KLM charter subsidiary transavia.com. Passenger Activity For the reasons discussed above under the heading “—Overview”, operating revenues from passenger activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 6.8% compared to such revenues for the prior period on a pro forma basis, while scheduled passenger revenues increased 7.1% compared to such revenues for the prior period on a pro forma basis. The following table shows passenger capacity, traffic and load factor for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the change in these operating measures as compared to such operating measures for the previous financial year on a pro forma basis: Capacity (ASK) Traffic (RPK) Load factor(RPK/ASK) (in millions) (change) (in millions) (change) (in %) (change) Long-haul 163,216 7.6 % 134,331 10.0 % 82.3 1.8 pts Medium-haul 51,390 4.7 % 34,667 5.1 % 67.5 0.3 pts Total 214,606 6.9 % 168,998 8.9 % 78.7 1.5 pts Capacity during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 6.9% over the prior period presented on a pro forma basis. Compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 presented on a pro forma basis, growth in capacity was strongest over the long-haul network, which rose 7.6%, while medium-haul capacity increased by 4.7%. Passenger activity reported a steady increase over the financial year ended March 31, 2005 after a difficult previous year marked by the SARS epidemic. For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France-KLM traffic increased 8.9% from the previous financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis, while capacity increased 6.9%, resulting in an increase in load factor of 1.5 points to 78.7%. Traffic on the long-haul network reported strong recovery, with an increase of 9.7% in passengers carried (18.8 million), as compared to the previous financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. With an increase of 7.6% in capacity, traffic rose 10% generating a 1.8 point gain in load factor to 82.3%. Long-haul revenue for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 totaled €8.04 billion, an increase of 9.5% over the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis, despite strong negative currency effects. Activity on the European medium-haul network also improved for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 compared to the previous year. Traffic increased 5.1% from the previous financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis, while capacity increased 4.7%, generating a stable load factor of 67.5% (an increase of 0.3 points). The number of passengers carried increased 4.1% to 45.3 million, as compared to the previous financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. This was the case notwithstanding strong competition and changes in customer demand in Europe. This competition and changes led us, beginning in April 2004, to implement policies to introduce greater flexibility and efficiency in our ground operations simplify and standardize our products and prices and optimize capacity. KLM expanded capacity to France from Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Eindhoven and Air France and KLM began to streamline their respective medium-haul networks. 69 Table of Contents The table below shows scheduled passenger revenues by destination and by sales region for the year ended March 31, 2005, and the change in these revenues compared to the year ended March 31, 2004 as calculated on a pro forma basis: Scheduled Passenger Revenue By destination By area of sale (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) Caribbean and Indian Ocean 1,124 8.0 (7.5 )% 348 2.5 (10.8 )% Europe and North Africa(1) 6,044 42.9 4.3 % 9,711 68.8 6.9 % Africa and Middle East 1,920 13.6 9.6 % 937 6.7 4.7 % North and Latin America 2,939 20.9 8.5 % 1,994 14.2 11.7 % Asia 2,058 14.6 22 % 1,095 7.8 8.6 % Total 14,085 100.0 7.1 % 14,085 100.0 7.1 % Note: (1) For the year ended March 31, 2005, Europe and North Africa includes France, whereas in previous financial years revenues for France were reported separately. Scheduled passenger revenues by destination and area of sale increased for each region with the exception of the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean, which was marked by intense competition affecting both revenues and traffic until the fourth quarter when changes in the competitive environment, notably the termination of services by one competitor, permitted a partial recovery. Traffic on Caribbean and Indian Ocean network fell by 1.7% for the year and capacity by 2.9%, which generated a one point gain in the load factor to 80.9%. A total of 3.15 million passengers used our Caribbean and Indian Ocean network, a decrease of 2.6%. Our sub-networks in Africa and the Middle East, which are dedicated to industry travel to oil production and construction sites, were very successful posting increases in traffic of 8.5% and capacity of 7.0%. The load factor for Africa and Middle East was 77.9%, an increase of one point. Traffic in North and South America increased by 8.5%, representing strong activity in both North America and South America (where Air France and KLM began to streamline their flights). As capacity rose only 5.0%, the load factor increased 2.8 points to 85.5%. The increase in revenues was notwithstanding a negative currency effect linked to the weak dollar. Asian traffic increased substantially by 23.1% and capacity by 21.1%. The load factor increased 1.3 points to 81.5%. These increases, together with a substantial increase in revenues, reflect the recovery from the SARS epidemic which adversely affected the first quarter of the financial year ended March 31, 2004. The following table shows a breakdown of total passenger revenues, scheduled passenger revenues, passenger unit revenue per ASK and yield (passenger unit revenue per RPK) for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 on a pro forma and published basis, and the percentage change between these 2005 figures and pro forma 2004 figures: Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004Pro forma Change 2004 Air Francepublished Total passenger revenues (in € millions) 15,004 14,044 6.8 % 10,260 Scheduled passenger revenues (in € millions) 14,085 13,156 7.1 % 9,465 Unit revenue per ASK (in € cents) 6.56 6.55 .1 % 7.02 Yield (unit revenue per RPK) (in € cents) 8.33 8.48 (1.7 )% 9.29 Cargo Activity Operating revenues from total cargo activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 9.4% to €2,492 million from €2,277 million on a pro forma basis (€1,412 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in revenues from cargo activities resulted primarily from the recovery 70 Table of Contents from the effects of the war in Iraq and the SARS epidemic during the financial year ended March 31, 2004, the imposition of fuel surcharges, the progressive weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and the end of certain textile industry quotas in Asia. The following table shows cargo capacity, traffic and load factor for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the change in these operating measures as compared to the previous financial year as calculated on a pro forma basis. Capacity (ATK) Traffic (RTK) Load factor (RTK/ATK) (in millions) (change) (in millions) (change) (in %) (change) 14,774 9.4 % 10,078 8.8 68.2 (0.4 ) During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, cargo activity recorded strong growth despite the high increase in oil prices (which were partially offset by fuel surcharges and our hedging policies) and negative currency effects due to the strength of the euro, particularly in our Asia business. Our Asian business was negatively affected by the strength of the euro which exacerbated the cost advantages which our Asian competitors enjoy. Cargo capacity increased 9.4% compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis, while traffic increased 8.8% resulting in a slight decline of 0.4% in the load factor to 68.2% for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. The following table shows the geographic mix of our scheduled cargo operating revenue for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the percentage change in this mix from the previous financial year as calculated on a pro forma basis: Scheduled cargo revenue By destination By sales region (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) Europe and North Africa 192 8.4 (6.8 )% 1,081 47.0 4.1 % Caribbean and Indian Ocean 178 7.7 5.3 % 41 1.8 (4.7 )% Africa-Middle East 279 12.1 9.4 % 157 6.8 9.8 % North and Latin America 652 28.3 13.4 % 266 11.6 12.7 % Asia 999 43.5 13.7 % 755 32.8 21.0 % Total 2,300 100.0 10.4 % 2,300 100.0 10.4 % The North and Latin American network represented 35% of traffic and capacity for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Traffic on this network increased 8.7% from the previous financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis, while capacity increased 4.7%, resulting in an increased load factor of 2.6 points to 69.7%. The Asian network recorded a decline of 4.1 points in the load factor to 73.8% as an increase in traffic of 10.1% was less than the 16.2% increase in capacity. The African and Middle East network, which represented 9.0% of traffic and 10.3% of capacity, performed very well after the war in Iraq and related international tension which heavily impacted the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Traffic rose 7.3% with a 4.2% increase in capacity, resulting in a 1.8 point increase in load factor to 61.8% compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. The Caribbean and Indian Ocean network remained stable with an increase of 2.1% in capacity and 1.2% in traffic compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. 71 Table of Contents The following table sets forth total cargo revenue, revenue from scheduled cargo, unit revenue per available ton-kilometer (ATK) of scheduled cargo and unit revenue per revenue ton-kilometer (RTK) of scheduled cargo for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 and the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma and published basis, as well as the percentage change between the 2005 figures and the pro forma 2004 figures: Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004Pro forma Change 2004 Air Francepublished Total cargo revenue (in € millions) 2,492 2,277 9.4 % 1,412 Revenue from scheduled cargo (in € millions) 2,300 2,084 10.4 % 1,264 Unit revenue per ATK (in € cents) 15.58 15.42 1.0 % 14.89 Unit revenue per RTK (in € cents) 22.83 22.48 1.6 % 23.27 Unit revenue per available ton-kilometer increased by 1.0% on a pro forma basis, reflecting a negative currency impact of 2.5%. Unit revenue per revenue ton-kilometer increased 1.6% on a pro forma basis. Maintenance Activity Operating revenues of Air France-KLM’s maintenance activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 4.0% to €777 million from €747 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis (€508 million on a published basis) despite a negative currency effect of 2.6%. The increase in revenues resulted primarily from the general recovery of the airline sector. Other Activity Operating revenues for Air France-KLM’s other activities increased 12.7% for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to the year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis, to €805 million from €714 million (€157 million on a published basis). Revenues from other activities included 15 months of Servair revenues over the period January 2004 to March 2005. This was to eliminate a one-quarter discrepancy in Servair reporting which had existed until March 31, 2004 as we decided to align Servair’s financial year with our own. Excluding the impact of this 15-month consolidation, the increase would have been 6.2%. This increase was primarily due to the strong performance of the charter activities of KLM subsidiary transavia.com, and of Servair over the first half of the financial year. 72 Table of Contents External Expenses External expenses for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 9.3% over the previous year on a pro forma basis, increasing to €10,687 million from €9,779 million (€6,754 million on a published basis) for the year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in external expenses resulted principally from the increase in fuel costs of 33.3%. Excluding increases due to fuel costs, the increase in external expenses was limited to 3.1%.The following table shows a breakdown of our external expenses for the financial years ended March 31, 2005 and the financial year ended March 31, 2004, on a pro forma and published basis, as well as the percentage change between the 2005 external expenses and the pro forma 2004 external expenses: Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004Pro forma Change 2004 Air Francepublished (in € millions, except percentages) Jet fuel 2,653 1,990 33.3 % 1,302 Chartering costs 558 502 11.2 % 414 Aircraft operating lease costs 630 608 3.6 % 458 Landing fees and en route charges 1,460 1,373 6.3 % 913 Catering 402 376 6.9 % 296 Handling charges and other operating costs 1,067 1,078 (1.0 )% 756 Aircraft maintenance costs 621 616 0.8 % 381 Commercial and distribution costs 1,399 1,439 (2.8 )% 1,051 Other external expenses 1,897 1,797 5.6 % 1,183 Total 10,687 9,779 9.3 % 6,754 Jet fuel Jet fuel expenses increased 33.3% for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis to €2,653 million from €1,990 million (€1,302 on a published basis) due principally to the substantial increase in oil prices. The application of our hedging policies in respect of fuel costs resulted in a gain of €375 million. The increase in fuel costs was due to a 5.2% increase in volume of purchases and a 44.6% increase in prices, which were partially offset by a favorable currency effect of 6.5% and the gain of 12.4% due to the application of our hedging policies. Chartering Costs Aircraft charter costs rose 11.2% to €558 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, from €502 million for the previous year on a pro forma basis (€414 million on a published basis), due to greater use of code shares with some of our partners (such as Korean Air, Japan Airlines and Vietnam Airlines) as a result of the offer of Air France’s new “Dedicate” product. The offer of this product required the chartering of special A321 aircraft. Aircraft Operating Lease Costs For the year ended March 31, 2005, aircraft operating lease costs increased by 3.6% compared to the previous period on a pro forma basis, increasing to €630 million from €608 million (€458 million on a published basis). Landing Fees and en Route Charges Landing fees and en route charges increased 6.3% to €1,460 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 from €1,373 million (€913 million on a published basis) during the previous financial year on a pro forma basis. This increase principally reflects the increase in traffic and route fees in Africa and landing fees in Africa and France. 73 Table of Contents Catering For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, catering expenses increased 6.9% to €407 million compared to €376 million (€296 million on a published basis) for the year ended March 31, 2004 on a pro forma basis. The increase was mainly due to the impact of the increase in passenger activity. Handling Charges and Other Operating Expenses Handling charges and other operating expenses totaled €1,067 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, decreasing 1.0% from €1,078 million on a pro forma basis (€756 million on a published basis) for the year ended March 31, 2004. Aircraft Maintenance Costs Aircraft maintenance costs increased slightly by 0.8% for the year ended March 31, 2005, to €621 million from €616 million on a pro forma basis (€381 million on an actual basis) for the prior year. Commercial and Distribution Costs Commercial and distribution costs decreased by 2.8% for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, decreasing to €1,399 million from €1,439 million on a pro forma basis (€1,051 on a published basis) for the prior year. The decrease in commercial and distribution expenses resulted primarily from a decrease in travel agency commissions. Other External Expenses Other external expenses increased 5.6% for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, rising to €1,897 million from €1,797 million on a pro forma basis (€1,183 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. The increase in other external expenses resulted mainly from increases in expenses related to our business combination. Salaries and Related Costs Salaries and related costs increased 4.2% for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, rising to €5,922 million from €5,685 million on a pro forma basis (€4,079 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. The 4.2% increase was principally due to the reduction in allowances for costs that had been granted in France in connection with the implementation of the 35-hours work week. Additionally, an employer’s contribution charge of €17 million was made by Air France in connection with the share offering reserved for employees following the sale by the French State of a portion of its shareholding in Air France-KLM in December 2004. Payroll costs increased by 3.4% and social security contributions by 7.4% on a pro forma basis due to the factors noted above. The average number of employees of the Air France-KLM group decreased slightly compared to the average number of Air France and KLM employees for March 31, 2004. Taxes Other than Income Tax Taxes and duties, other than income tax, consist principally of the French business tax (taxe professionnelle) and taxes based on employee salaries. The taxe professionnelle is charged by local French authorities to companies and takes into account the rental value of the company’s premises and the value of its fixed assets. Taxes other than income tax increased by 7.6% to €226 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 from €210 million on a pro forma basis (€186 million on a published basis) for the prior year. 74 Table of Contents Gross Operating Result Gross operating result for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 6.4% to €2,243 million from €2,108 million on a pro forma basis (€1,318 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Gross operating result represented 11.8% of Air France-KLM’s total operating revenues, compared to 11.9% of such revenues on a pro forma basis (10.7% on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Charge to Depreciation, Amortization, Net Depreciation and amortization charges remained stable, decreasing to €1,586 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 from €1,587 million on a pro forma basis (€1,184 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Charge to Operating Provisions, Net Charges to operating provisions amounted to €134 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 compared to €88 million on a pro forma basis (€46 million on a published basis) for the previous financial year. This increase is principally a result of increased provisions for doubtful debts of €15 million and increased provisions for pensions of €17 million. Gain on Disposal of Flight Equipment, Net Air France recorded a slight gain on aircraft disposals, net of €8 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to a gain of €9 million on a pro forma basis (€7 million on a published basis) during the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Other Operating Income and Charges, Net Other charges amounted to €34 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, compared to €28 million on a pro forma basis (€44 million on a published basis) for the prior financial year. Other charges for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 corresponded mainly to a charge of €61 million resulting from the joint operation of passenger and cargo activities and a decrease of €43 million in the compensation received for slot swaps to €7 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 compared to €50 million on a pro forma basis for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Operating Income General Operating income for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 amounted to €497 million, increasing 20.0% from €414 million on a pro forma basis (€139 million on a published basis) for the year ended March 31, 2004. By Activity For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, operating income from passenger activity increased 13.9%, rising to €312 million, compared to €274 million on a pro forma basis (€67 million on a published basis) for the prior financial year. Operating income from cargo activities increased as well, rising to €95 million from €59 million on a pro forma basis (€15 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Operating income from maintenance declined for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, declining to €48 million from €55 million on a pro forma basis (€50 million on a published basis) for the prior period. 75 Table of Contents The following is a table showing a breakdown of operating revenues, operating income and tangible fixed assets by activity for the years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 (on both a pro forma and published basis): Year ended March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004 Pro forma 2004 Air France published Operatingrevenues Operatingincome Tangiblefixedassets Operatingrevenues Operatingincome Operatingrevenues Operatingincome Tangiblefixedassets (in € millions) Passenger 15,004 312 9,262 14,044 274 10,260 67 6,688 Cargo 2,492 95 972 2,277 59 1,412 15 371 Maintenance 777 48 1,300 747 55 508 50 759 Other 805 42 1,230 714 26 157 7 88 Total 19,078 497 12,754 17,782 414 12,337 139 7,906 Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 amounted to €21 million, compared to €22 million on a pro forma and published basis for the previous financial year. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, KLM decided to outsource to third parties part of its traffic registration, interline registration and sales control activities, as well as its maintenance activities with respect to the KLM regional Fokker fleet. Additionally, KLM decided to choose the Schiphol hub as a base for their operations in Great Britain, requiring part of the operation of KLM’s 100% subsidiary KLM Cityhopper to be relocated to the Netherlands. KLM accordingly accounted for a restructuring provision of €11 million. As of March 31, 2003, KLM recorded a restructuring provision of €75 million to cover redundancy costs associated with the execution of KLM’s cost cutting program. As of May 1, 2004, the provision related to this program amounted to €56 million, of which €39 million was utilized in the period May 1, 2004 through March 31, 2005 to cover redundancy costs incurred under KLM’s social plan. As of March 31, 2005, the remaining provision, amounting to €17 million, is expected to be utilized within one year. Restructuring charges also include a restructuring project to improve Servair’s performance. During the financial year ended March 31, 2004, restructuring costs (€22 million on a pro forma and published basis) primarily related to costs of the second progressive early-retirement plan implemented by Air France. Net Financial Charges Net financial charges amounted to €219 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, an increase of 17.1% from the €187 on a pro forma basis (€60 million on a published basis) recorded during the previous financial year. Net interest expense amounted to €202 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, a decrease of 11.4% from the €228 on a pro forma basis (€101 million on a published basis) recorded during the previous financial year due to the lower interest rates applicable over the period (3.80% for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared to 4.10% for the year ended March 31, 2004). Foreign exchange losses for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 include an unrealized net gain of €1 million, compared to a net gain of €31 million on a pro forma basis for the year ended March 31, 2004. Additionally, for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, we recognized a financial gain in other financial income of €37.9 million arising from the financing of two Air France aircraft. Other financial income also included dividends received from non-consolidated companies in the amount of €8 million for the year ended March 31, 2005 compared with €3 million on a pro forma basis for the year ended March 31, 2004. 76 Table of Contents Gains on Disposals of Subsidiaries and Affiliates, Net Gains on disposals of subsidiaries and affiliates amounted to €67 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, compared to €5 million on a pro forma basis (€5 million on a published basis) for the previous financial year. The gain are mainly due to the transfer of Amadeus France and its subsidiary Amadeus France Service to Amadeus GTD on December 30, 2004. During the financial year ended March 31, 2004, disposals of subsidiaries and affiliates essentially involved the sale of Société immobilière 3F shares held by Air France. Pre-tax Income Pre-tax income amounted to €324 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, up 54.3% from €210 million on a pro forma basis (€62 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Net Income of Equity Affiliates The net income of equity affiliates for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 remained stable at €73 million compared to the previous year on a pro forma basis (an increase of 37.7% from €53 million on a published basis). Amortization of Goodwill For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, amortization of goodwill remained stable at €58 million compared to the previous year on a pro forma basis (increased from €(15) on a published basis). Income Tax For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, we had a total tax charge of €96 million, compared to a tax charge of €40 million on a pro forma basis (€2 million on a published basis) for the previous period due to increased pre-tax income and taxes payable upon our sale of Amadeus France. Net Income Net income for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 increased 20.2%, to €351 million from €292 million on a pro forma basis (€93 million on a published basis) for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. 77 Table of Contents Comparison of Financial Years Ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003 The following discussion is of Air France’s results of operations for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2003. Total Operating Revenues The following table sets forth operating revenues by type of activity of Air France for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003, and the percentage change between the two financial years: Year ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change (in € millions, except percentages) Scheduled passenger 9,465 9,713 (2.6 )% Other passenger 795 814 (2.3 )% Total passenger 10,260 10,527 (2.5 )% Scheduled cargo 1,264 1,314 (3.8 )% Other cargo 148 165 (10.3 )% Total cargo 1,412 1,479 (4.5 )% Maintenance 508 540 (5.9 )% Other 157 141 11.3 )% Total Operating Revenues 12,337 12,687 (2.8 )% Air France’s total operating revenues for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 decreased 2.8% compared to the previous financial year, declining to €12,337 million from €12,687 million. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, revenues from passenger and cargo operations, which represented 94.6% of Air France’s consolidated revenues, decreased by 2.8% compared to revenues from passenger and cargo operations for the financial year ended March 31, 2003. Revenues from passenger operations (83.2% of total operating revenues) decreased 2.5% compared to such revenues for the prior period, with a 2.6% decrease in scheduled passenger revenues in addition to a decline of 2.3% in other passenger revenues principally due to the continued weakness of the European economy, the effect of the war in Iraq, the effect of SARS and a series of air traffic control strikes. Revenues from cargo operations (11.4% of total operating revenues) decreased by 4.5% compared to such revenues for the prior period with a 3.8% decrease in scheduled cargo revenues in addition to a 10.3% decline in other cargo revenues resulting primarily from the depreciation of the dollar against the euro. Maintenance revenues decreased slightly primarily as a result of the depreciation of the dollar against the euro. Other revenues increased by 11.3%. In addition, as mentioned under the heading “Critical Accounting Policies” above, we changed our estimates for computing the Fréquence Plus liability in 2003 to more adequately reflect the expected behavior of our customers. This change in estimates had a positive impact on revenues of approximately €23 million. Passenger Activity Operating revenues from passenger activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 decreased 2.5%, while scheduled passenger revenues decreased 2.6% due to negative exchange rate effects. 78 Table of Contents The following table shows passenger capacity, traffic and load factor for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 and the change in these operating measures as compared to the previous financial year: Capacity (ASK) Traffic (RPK) Load factor (RPK/ASK) (inmillions) (change) (inmillions) (change) (in %) (change) Long-haul 97,317 1.9 % 77,682 1.3 % 79.8 (0.5 )pts International medium-haul 22,080 6.2 % 14,047 (4.5 )% 63.6 (1.0 )pts Domestic medium-haul 15,047 0.5 % 9,915 1.5 % 65.9 0.4 pts Total 134,444 2.4 % 101,644 1.7 % 75.6 (0.5 )pts Capacity during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 increased slightly, rising 2.4% over the prior period. Compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2003, growth in capacity was strongest over the international medium-haul network, which rose 6.2% for the year ended March 31, 2004, while long-haul capacity increased slightly by 1.9% and domestic medium-haul capacity by 0.5%. The first six months of the financial year ended March 31, 2004, and in particular the first quarter, were affected by the weak European economy, the SARS epidemic, and by a series of air-traffic controller strikes related to pension reform. The first signs of recovery were recorded in June 2004 and continued into the second quarter, although traffic in the Asia-Pacific region remained below the levels before the SARS crisis. At September 30, 2003, traffic was down 0.5% from the first half of the financial year ended March 31, 2003, while capacity increased 0.7%, resulting in a decline in load factor of 0.9 points to 76.4%. Passenger traffic remained relatively stable at 22.4 million passengers during the six months ended September 30, 2003 as compared to the first six months of the preceding financial year. For the financial period ended September 30, 2003, traffic on the long-haul network was impacted as well by the weakness of the European economy, the effect of the war in Iraq and the SARS epidemic. Traffic declined 1.1% with relatively stable capacity, increasing 0.5%, resulting in a load factor of 79.7%. The two sectors most affected were Asia and the Middle East. On the medium-haul network for the financial period ended September 30, 2003, traffic and capacity increased 1.7% and 4.8%, respectively, resulting in a 2 point decline in the load factor to 68.1%. Traffic in the domestic market stabilized, increasingly only 0.8%, while capacity declined 3.3%. The load factor improved by 2.7 points to 67.8%. In the second six months of the financial year ended March 31, 2004, recovery continued with an increase in traffic and capacity of 4.1% and 4.2%, respectively. The load factor remained stable at 74.8% compared to the second half of the previous year. Air France carried 21.3 million passengers during this period compared with 19.5 million passengers in the second half of the previous year, representing an increase of 9.2%. Long-haul traffic grew in line with capacity, growing 3.4% and 3.7%, respectively, returning to a load factor of 80%. On the international medium-haul segment, in contrast to last year, the second six months saw an increase in traffic and grew 7.9% compared to the second six months of the previous financial year. The load factor stabilized at 59.5% taking into account a capacity increase of 7.6%. On domestic routes, traffic was up 2.2% with capacities up 4.6%. 79 Table of Contents The table below shows scheduled passenger revenues by destination and by sales region for the year ended March 31, 2004, and the change in these revenues compared to the previous period: Scheduled Passenger Revenue By destination By area of sale (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) France 2,024 21.4 5.7 % 4,635 48.9 0.8 % Caribbean and Indian Ocean 1,023 10.8 2.9 % 348 3.7 2.4 % Europe and North Africa 2,501 26.4 (2.6 )% 2,099 22.2 0.3 % Africa and Middle East 1,058 11.2 (3.6 )% 577 6.1 (3.5 )% North and Latin America 1,850 19.5 (5.9 )% 1,169 12.4 (12.0 )% Asia 1,009 10.7 (14.1 )% 637 6.7 (15.9 )% Total 9,465 100.0 (2.6 )% 9,465 100.0 (2.6 )% The following table shows a breakdown of total passenger revenues, scheduled passenger revenues, passenger unit revenue per ASK and yield (passenger unit revenue per RPK) for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, and the percentage change between these periods: Year ended March 31, 2004 Change Total passenger revenues (in € millions) 10,260 (2.5 )% Scheduled passenger revenues (in € millions) 9,465 (2.6 )% Unit revenue per ASK (in € cents) 7.02 (5.0 )% Yield (unit revenue per RPK) (in € cents) 9.29 (4.3 )% Cargo Activity Operating revenues from total cargo activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 decreased 4.5% to €1,412 million from €1,479 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2003. The decrease in revenues from cargo activities resulted primarily from the depreciation of the dollar against the euro and the weakened international economy. The following table shows cargo capacity, traffic and load factor for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 and the change in these operating measures as compared to the previous financial year. Capacity (ATK) Traffic (RTK) Load factor (RTK/ATK) (in millions) (change) (in millions) (change) (in %) (change) 8,487 1.8 % 5,432 (0.2 )% 64.0 (1.3 ) During the financial year ended March 31, 2004 cargo activity remained relatively stable, in spite of the weakened international economy and the weakness of the dollar against the euro. Cargo capacity increased 1.8% compared to the financial year ended March 31, 2003, while traffic decreased 0.2%, resulting in a decline of 1.3% in the load factor to 64.0% for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. This decrease was primarily due to the negative foreign exchange effects, particularly the weak dollar. 80 Table of Contents The following table shows the geographic mix of Air France’s scheduled cargo operating revenue for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 and the percentage change in this mix from the previous financial year: Scheduled cargo revenue By destination By sales region (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) (in € m) (in % oftotal) (change) France and Europe 181 14.3 28.4 % 676 53.5 (1.6 )% Caribbean and Indian Ocean 153 12.1 (0.6 )% 40 3.2 (11.1 )% Africa-Middle East 154 12.2 (1.9 )% 86 6.8 (11.3 )% North and Latin America 342 27.1 (11.4 )% 134 10.6 (5.0 )% Asia 434 34.3 (8.8 )% 328 25.9 (4.7 )% Total 1,264 100.0 (3.8 )% 1,264 100.0 (3.8 )% Revenue from scheduled cargo activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 declined in North America as a result of the weakened international economy and the weakness of the dollar against the euro, which fell 11.4% from the previous financial year. Scheduled cargo revenue from France and Europe, which are euro-based, experienced significant growth, increasing 28.4% from the previous financial year. The following table sets forth total cargo revenue, revenue from scheduled cargo, unit revenue per available ton-kilometer (ATK) of scheduled cargo and unit revenue per revenue ton-kilometer (RTK) of scheduled cargo for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003, as well as the percentage change between such periods: Year ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change Total cargo revenue (in € millions) 1,412 1,479 (4.5 )% Revenue from scheduled cargo (in € millions) 1,264 1,314 (3.8 )% Unit revenue per ATK (in € cents) 14.89 15.74 (5.4 )% Unit revenue per RTK (in € cents) 23.27 24.11 (3.6 )% Unit revenue per available ton-kilometer decreased by 5.4%, reflecting a negative currency impact of 6.1%. Unit revenue per revenue ton-kilometer decreased 3.6% reflecting such currency impact. Maintenance Activity Operating revenues of Air France’s maintenance activity for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 decreased 5.9% to €508 million from €540 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2003. The decline in revenues resulted primarily from the depreciation of the dollar against the euro. Other Activity Consolidated revenues for Air France’s other activities increased 11.3% for the year ended March 31, 2004 compared to the year ended March 31, 2003, to €157 million from €141 million. External Expenses External expenses for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 declined 5.9% over the previous year, falling to €6,754 million from €7,174 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. The decline in external expenses resulted principally from favorable exchange rate fluctuations and the continued implementation of our cost-savings program. 81 Table of Contents The following table shows a breakdown of Air France’s external expenses for the financial years ended March 31, 2004 and March 31, 2003 as well as the percentage change between such periods: Year ended March 31, 2004 2003 Change (in € millions, except percentages) Jet fuel 1,302 1,369 (4.9 )% Chartering costs 414 415 (0.2 )% Aircraft operating lease costs 458 522 (12.3 )% Landing fees and en route charges 913 934 (2.2 )% Catering 296 319 (7.2 )% Handling charges and other operating costs 756 768 (1.6 )% Aircraft maintenance costs 381 477 (20.1 )% Commercial and distribution costs 1,051 1,157 (9.2 )% Other external expenses 1,183 1,213 (2.5 )% Total 6,754 7,174 (5.9 )% Jet fuel Jet fuel expenses decreased 4.9% as a result of three principal factors: a relatively stable fuel consumption rate, a favorable average U.S. currency exchange rate effect of 15.7%, and a 10.5% increase in fuel purchase prices after hedging. Despite the sharp rise in fuel prices during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 linked to the war in Iraq, Air France was able to control fuel costs through its hedging policy. See “Item 3: Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Business—Air France-KLM may be adversely affected by high jet fuel prices”. During the year ended March 31, 2004, jet fuel expenses were 10.6% of Air France’s operating revenues. In contrast, jet fuel expenses were 10.8% of operating revenues for the year ended March 31, 2003. Chartering Costs Chartering costs remained relatively stable decreasing 0.2% during the year ended March 31, 2004, falling to €414 million from €415 million during the year ended March 31, 2003. Aircraft Operating Lease Costs For the year ended March 31, 2004, aircraft operating lease costs decreased by 12.3% compared to the previous period, decreasing to €458 million from €522 million. The decrease resulted primarily from the depreciation of the dollar against the euro. Landing Fees and en Route Charges Landing fees and en route charges decreased 2.2% to €913 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 from €934 million during the previous financial year. Catering For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, catering expenses decreased 7.2% to €296 million compared to €319 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. The decrease was mainly due to the impact of the decline in passenger activity and the implementation of cost reduction programs. 82 Table of Contents Handling Charges and Other Operating Expenses Handling charges and other operating expenses totaled €756 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, decreasing 1.6% from €768 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. Handling charges decreased despite the increases in capacity over the year, particularly corresponding to the opening of terminal 2E at Roissy-CDG. This decrease resulted from increased charges we incurred during the financial year ending March 31, 2003 relating to strikes by security companies at Roissy-CDG and Orly airports. Aircraft Maintenance Costs Aircraft maintenance costs decreased 20.1% during the year ended March 31, 2004, falling to €381 million from €477 million for the prior year. This decrease was primarily due to the depreciation of the dollar against the euro, lower levels of activity and the termination of the Concorde service. Commercial and Distribution Costs Commercial and distribution costs decreased by 9.2% for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, declining to €1,051 million from €1,157 during the prior year. The decrease in commercial and distribution expenses resulted primarily from a reduction in travel agency commissions and spending on advertising. Other External Expenses Other external expenses decreased 2.5% for the year ended March 31, 2004, declining to €1,183 million from €1,213 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. The decrease in other external expenses resulted mainly from a decrease in insurance premiums (down 22.7% for société Air France). Air France renegotiated its insurance coverage in December 2002 and benefited from the full-year effect of the decreased premiums during the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Salaries and Related Costs Salaries and related costs increased 5.8% for the year ended March 31, 2004, rising to €4,079 million from €3,856 million for the prior year. The 5.8% increase derived principally following an increase in social security contributions linked to the reform of subsidies for the transition to the 35-hour week. Payroll costs increased by 5% and social security contributions by 8.8%. The average workforce remained relatively stable with a slight increase of 0.2%. Taxes Other than Income Tax Taxes and duties, other than income tax, consisting principally of the French business tax (taxe professionnelle) and taxes based on employee salaries, remained stable, decreasing by 0.5% to €186 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 from €187 million for the prior year. Gross Operating Result Gross operating result for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 decreased 10.3%, decreasing to €1,318 million from €1,470 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. Gross operating results represented 10.7% of Air France’s total operating revenues, compared to 11.6% of such revenues for the prior financial year. Charge to Depreciation, Amortization, Net Depreciation and amortization charges decreased 0.9%, decreasing to €1,184 million from €1,195 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2003. 83 Table of Contents Charge to Operating Provisions, Net Charges to operating provisions amounted to €46 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 compared to €115 million for the previous financial year. This decrease is principally a result of a one-time charge of €59 million taken during the financial year ended March 31, 2003 following the decision to terminate Concorde flights effective as of June 1, 2003. Gain on Disposal of Flight Equipment, Net Air France recorded a net gain on aircraft disposals of €7 million for the year ended March 31, 2004 compared to €30 million during the prior financial year. The net gain on aircraft disposals during the year ended March 31, 2004 resulted from the sale of one Airbus A320, one Airbus A330, one Boeing 737, one Boeing 777-200 and three Boeing 747-400 as well as three regional aircraft. Other Operating Income and Charges, Net Other income amounted to €44 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, compared to €2 million for the prior period. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, other income included gains of €5 million from the joint operation of passenger and cargo lines (compared to €5 million during the previous financial year), €7 million in software fees (compared to €8 million during the previous financial year), €50 million in income linked to financial compensation from other airlines corresponding to an exchange of slots at London’s Heathrow airport, net losses on abandoned fixed assets and aircraft replacements in the amount of €2 million and other expenses in the amount of €2 million. Operating Income General Operating income for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 amounted to €139 million, decreasing 27.6% from €192 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. For the year ended March 31, 2004, operating income represented 1.1% of consolidated revenues. Air France contributed €108 million to operating income, while the operating income from regional subsidiaries contributed €17 million after such subsidiaries contributed an operating income of €6 million during the prior year. The balance came from other subsidiaries. By Activity During the financial year ended March 31, 2004, operating income from passenger activity decreased 33.7%, falling to €67 million, compared to €101 million during the prior period. Operating income from cargo activities decreased as well, declining to €15 million from €48 million during the financial year ended March 31, 2003. Operating income from maintenance declined during the financial year ended March 31, 2004, declining to €50 million from €67 million for the prior period. 84 Table of Contents The following is a table showing a breakdown of the operating revenues, operating income and tangible fixed assets by activity for the years ended March 31, 2004 and 2003: Year ended March 31, 2004 2003 Operatingrevenues Operatingincome Tangiblefixedassets Operatingrevenues Operatingincome Tangiblefixedassets (in € millions) Passenger 10,260 67 6,688 10,527 101 6,978 Cargo 1,412 15 371 1,479 48 508 Maintenance 508 50 759 540 67 580 Other 157 7 88 141 (24 ) 96 Total 12,337 139 7,906 12,687 192 8,162 Restructuring Costs Restructuring costs for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 amounted to €22 million, compared to €13 million for the previous financial year, and resulted in part from costs of the second progressive early-retirement plan implemented at Air France during the financial year ended March 31, 2004. This plan provides for the progressive retirement of 1,000 people and the hiring of 500 new members of staff. This plan, offered to full-time employees aged 55 and over, involves an adjustment to the working time of employees for the duration of the plan while complying with an average working time of 50%. Over this period, employees receive 80% of their initial salary, with 50% paid by Air France and 30% by the Fonds National pour l’Emploi (FNE). Air France contributes to the financing of the FNE and pays higher contributions into the supplementary pension funds for the duration of the plan. During the financial year ended March 31, 2003, these restructuring costs (€13 million) primarily corresponded to the closure of the Nouméa base for commercial cabin crew, following the decision by Air France to stop operating flights between New Caledonia and Japan using its own resources. Net Financial Charges Net financial charges amounted to €60 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, a decrease of 29.4% from the €85 million recorded during the previous financial year. Net interest expense amounted to €101 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, a decrease of 9% from the €111 million recorded during the previous financial year due to the lower interest rates applicable over the period and the reimbursement of loans with higher interest rates. The net release of financial provisions of €6 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 includes €34 million in provisions released relating to the shares held by Air France and the commitments taken in connection with stock options granted to pilots (€19 million) following the increase in the Air France share price, the settlement of a tax dispute with the German tax authorities for which late payment penalty provisions had been made (€8 million), losses on foreign exchange options maturing (€7 million) and an allowance for the impairment in value of Air France’s interest in Opodo (€26 million). In addition, included in net financial charges are foreign exchange gains amounting to €35 million for the financial year ended March, 31 2004 (of which €31 million were unrealized as of March 31, 2004). Gains on Disposals of Subsidiaries and Affiliates, Net Gains on disposals of subsidiaries and affiliates amounted to €5 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, compared to €4 million for the previous financial year. The gain resulted from the sale of HLM Immobilière 3F shares held by Air France. 85 Table of Contents Pre-tax Income Pre-tax income amounted to €62 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, down 36.7% from €98 million for the previous period. Net Income of Equity Affiliates The net income of equity affiliates for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 was €53 million, increasing 82.8% from €29 million during the financial year ended March 31, 2003. The increase primarily reflects income from Air France’s 23.4% stake in Amadeus GTD as well as income from Air France Partnairs Leasing (AFPL) through which Air France leases aircraft through various operating leases. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Other Air France Holdings—Amadeus”. Amortization of Goodwill For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, amortization of goodwill amounted to €15 million, a decrease of 6.3% from €16 million for the previous period. Income Tax For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, Air France had a total tax charge of €2 million, compared to a tax credit of €13 million for the previous period. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, Air France recorded an income of €31 million (corresponding to the release of the income tax provision of €33 million, the recognition of income tax expenses of €17 million and a deferred tax asset of €14 million) related to the settlement of the tax dispute with the German tax authorities on the sale of the Amadeus KG securities. A compromise was reached by the joint French-German commission, in which the German tax authorities agreed to reduce their demand to 50% of the tax initially claimed and to cancel all late penalties to be paid by Air France. Net Income Net income for the year ended March 31, 2004 decreased 22.5%, declining to €93 million from €120 million for the prior year. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity We believe that our liquidity position exceeds the minimum required to sustain our business adequately and that our working capital is sufficient for our present requirements. We also believe that additional sources of liquidity are available to us if they are needed. Our liquidity position is strongly affected by aircraft purchases, which under their terms may provide for payments to the aircraft manufacturer in advance of delivery and therefore before the aircraft can be used to generate revenue. Our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows, mainly from passengers, who pay for their tickets in advance of receiving transport. Cash flows from operations increase in the summer season (between April and October), when there is greater passenger activity, and decline in the winter, when passenger activity decreases. Cash flows from operations are also affected by the factors that increase or decrease passenger activity generally. As of March 31, 2005, we had €2,254 million in marketable securities. In addition, Air France’s external sources of funding include a €1 billion syndicated credit facility established in August 2001 and renewed and increased in April 2005 to €1.2 billion for a period of five years with an option to extend to seven years (which, as of the date of this annual report is undrawn). Air France has a medium-term credit line in the amount of €52 million, of which €28 million was drawn as at March 31, 2005, with maturity dates between April 2004 and 86 Table of Contents October 2006. Air France has additionally €198 million in other lines of credit, capital leases, other bank loan facilities and bonds. There are no unusual provisions including, without limitation, those relating to changes in credit rating or ratings outlook (or the inability to achieve changes), in any of our debt, lease or other arrangements that could trigger a requirement for an early payment, additional collateral support, changes in terms, acceleration of maturity or the creation of additional financial obligations to any material extent. Finally, on April 19,2005, Air France completed an offering of €449,999,989.50 principal amount of 2.75% bonds due April 1,2020 convertible into and/or exchangeable for new and/or existing shares of Air France-KLM. As of March 31, 2005, €125 million of Air France’s debt was subject to financial covenants, which are limited to coverage of interest expense and the ratio of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Air France’s €1.2 billion undrawn syndicated credit facility noted above also contains financial covenants, although coverage extends to operating lease rental expenses as well as interest expense in this facility. KLM’s external sources of liquidity consist of its €500 million commercial paper program, mortgages secured by aircraft and non-fleet assets, and sale-and-lease back transactions of aircraft and non-fleet assets. As of March 31, 2005, no amounts were outstanding under KLM’s commercial paper program. Currently there are no unusual provisions in any of KLM’s financial guarantees, debt or lease agreements or other arrangements that could trigger a requirement for an early payment, additional collateral support, changes in terms, acceleration of maturity, or the creation of additional financial obligations to any material extent. We believe that it would be possible to increase liquidity, if necessary, by entering into additional sale and lease-back transactions with respect to unencumbered fully-owned aircraft and additional bank facilities. Cash Flows Cash flows from Operating Activities For the financial year ended March 31, 2005, cash flows from operating activities were €1,955 million. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, for Air France only, cash flows from operating activities were €1,201 million. The increase in cash flows from operating activities resulted from an increase in our gross operating results as a result of the inclusion of the results of operations of KLM in our financial statements from May 1, 2004, and slight positive change in working capital. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, cash flows from operating activities increased by 7.7%, to €1.20 billion from €1.12 billion for the prior period. The increase in cash flows from operating activities resulted from positive changes in working capital which returned to customary levels during the financial year ended March 31, 2004 after an exceptional period the previous year. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 amounted to €1,358 million. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, for Air France only, cash flows from investing activities were €849 million. This increase was principally due to the inclusion of the results of operations of KLM in our financial statements from May 1, 2004 including KLM cash acquired at the date of the business combination in an amount of €575 million as well as increases of purchases of tangible and intangible fixed assets (principally aircraft) and the acquisition of treasury shares in an amount of €32 million in connection with Air France pilots’ stock option plan. Net cash used in investing activities for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 amounted to €849 million, a decrease of 20.9% compared to €1,074 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2003. Cash flows used in investing activities were financed 141% by cash flows from operating activities, which totaled €1.2 billion, permitting a reduction of Air France group debt. 87 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities amounted to a net inflow of €266 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, for Air France only, cash flows from financing activities amounted to a net inflow of €386 million. This decrease was principally as a result of an increase in repayments of capital lease obligations of €360 million. Other repayment of debt amounted to €385 million for the financial year. New debt amounted to €858 million. Cash flows from financing activities increased to a net inflow of €386 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, from a net outflow of €415 million for the previous period. To ensure its refinancing needs, Air France raised €901 million over the year ended March 31, 2004. Debt repayments over the period totaled €497 million and primarily covered financial debt in the amount of €345 million, including a bond payment in June 2003 for €169 million as well as debts on financial lease agreements of €152 million. In July 2003, Air France finalized the securitization of aircraft assets in the amount of €435 million (including €337 million over the financial year ended March 31, 2003 and €98 million corresponding to a pre-financing of assets to be received in the financial year ending March 31, 2005). This financing arrangement was secured by 16 aircraft. During the financial year ended March 31, 2004, Air France refinanced its corporate headquarters for an amount of €137 million under a financial lease and issued a loan syndicated with credit institutions. Capital Expenditure Air France-KLM’s total capital expenditures on tangible and intangible fixed assets and acquisitions of subsidiaries and affiliates amounted to €2.1 billion for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. For the financial year ended March 31, 2004, for Air France only, total capital expenditures amounted to €1.28 billion. Capital expenditures for the financial years ended March 31, 2005 and 2004 principally involved aircraft purchases. Acquisitions of aircraft and flight equipment in the year ended March 31, 2005 included nine Boeing 777-300 aircraft added to Air France’s fleet as well as four B777-200 aircraft added to KLM’s fleet. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Business of Air France-KLM—The Fleet”. Other significant capital expenditures included payments for our new E.O.L.E. plant, construction of our new building for flight operation at Roissy-CDG, CitePN, and investments in our information technology systems.. Air France-KLM funds its capital expenditures through cash flows from the operations, debt, capital leases, and proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries and from the sale of aircraft. Air France-KLM’s commitments for capital expenditures are principally to purchase aircraft under aircraft acquisition agreements. As of March 31, 2005, Air France-KLM’s commitments relating to the purchase of aircraft (in terms of firm orders) was €2,962 million. As of March 31, 2004, Air France’s commitments relating to the purchase of aircraft (in terms of firm orders) was €3,176 million. These commitments are denominated in dollars and are converted into euro at the close of each relevant financial year. 88 Table of Contents Capital Resources The following table presents the amounts of short-term and long-term debt and capital lease obligations for Air France-KLM at March 31, 2005 and for Air France only at March 31, 2004: At March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004 Air France published (in € millions) Perpetual subordinated loan securities (TDI) 571 116 Bonds — 18 Capital lease obligations 4,482 1,453 Other long-term loans 2,873 2,461 Accrued interest not yet due 79 43 Bond redemption premium — — Long-term debt and capital leases(1) 8,005 4,091 Borrowings with short-term original maturities Commercial paper — — Short-term bank finance facilities and similar facilities 263 289 Short-term debt 263 289 Total short- and long-term debt and capital leases 8,268 4,380 Note: (1) Includes long-term debt maturing in less than one year (€1,056 million at March 31, 2005 and €429 million on a published basis at March 31, 2004). Air France-KLM had commitments relating to mortgaged or secured assets (which relate principally to aircraft mortgages) totaling €1,750 million as of March 31, 2005 and €1,650 million as of March 31, 2004 on a published basis. Air France-KLM’s long-term debt and capital lease obligations include obligations with fixed and variable exchange rates. As of March 31, 2005, 47.4% of such obligations had variable rates, compared to 54% as of March 31, 2004 on a published basis. In order to meet its financing needs, Air France and KLM incurred additional indebtedness of €858 million for the year ended March 31, 2005, compared to €901 million for the prior comparable period on a published basis. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France-KLM reimbursed €645 million of prior indebtedness. The following table shows a breakdown by currency of long-term debt and capital leases taking into account the effects of derivative financial instruments for Air France-KLM at March 31, 2005 and for Air France only at March 31, 2004: At March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004 Air France published (in € millions) Euro (EUR) 6,997 3,720 U.S. dollar (USD) 619 366 Swiss franc (CHF) 280 — Japanese yen (JPY) 29 — Pound Sterling 76 — Other currencies 4 5 Total 8,005 4,091 89 Table of Contents Net Debt Pursuant to SEC rules, we have provided below a reconciliation of net debt to short- and long-term debt and capital leases for the financial years ended March 31, 2005 (Air France-KLM) and 2004 (Air France only). Net debt is a non-GAAP financial measure, and we believe that short- and long-term debt and capital leases is the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We define net debt as short- and long-term debt and capital leases less cash and marketable securities. We have also provided below a ratio of net debt to stockholders’ equity and minority interests. We believe that our net debt and ratio of net debt to stockholders’ equity and minority interests are useful to investors as a measure of our liquidity and ability to serve and incur debt. However, net debt and such ratio should not be considered as measures of financial performance or leverage under French or U.S. GAAP and thus should be evaluated together with other financial ratios calculated in accordance with French or U.S. GAAP and the various components of short- and long-term debt and capital leases. In addition, our definition of net debt may not be comparable to similarly titled financial measures used by other companies. The following table shows a breakdown of net debt and stockholders’ equity and minority interests of Air France-KLM at March 31, 2005 and of Air France only at March 31, 2004: At March 31, 2005 Air France-KLM 2004 Air France published (in € millions) Short- and long-term debt and capital leases 8,268 4,380 Cash 386 330 Marketable securities 2,254 1,478 Net debt 5628 2,572 Stockholders’ equity and minority interests 5,226 4,085 Net debt/stockholders’ equity and minority interests 1.08 0.63 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements During the financial year ended March 31, 2003, Air France’s warranties, sureties and guarantees corresponded primarily to the guarantee given by Air France to financial institutions relative to the leasing of five Fokkers by Air Littoral. Pursuant to this agreement, if Air Littoral were to default on payments, Air France would cover the payment of the leasing fees due by Air Littoral, and in return, would be entitled to use these planes. The guarantee given, which corresponds to the minimum amount of future lease charges for the five Fokkers in the event of failure to meet payments by Air Littoral, totaled €23 million at March 31, 2003 (€37 million at March 2002). As Air Littoral was declared bankrupt during the financial year ended March 31, 2004, Air France has taken on Air Littoral’s commitments relative to the leasing agreements for the five Fokkers, with three of the them brought into service on its own lines between November 2003 and March 2004. The remaining two aircraft will enter into service in May and July 2004. 90 Table of Contents Contractual Commitments Tables The following table sets out Air France-KLM’s contractual commitments and payments due by period at March 31, 2005: Payment due by period Contractual Total Less than1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5+ years (in € millions) Long-term debt obligations 8,005 1,056 1,087 983 849 573 3,457 Of which aircraft capital leases 4,310 417 707 745 423 333 1,685 Of which buildings capital leases 170 15 17 15 15 15 93 Operating leases 2,851 648 548 449 354 263 589 Other contractual commitments 167 167 — — — — — Flight equipment orders 2,962 1,157 608 422 537 121 117 Total 13,985 3,028 2,243 1,854 1,740 957 4,163 In addition to through our operating cash flows and cash balances as of March 31, 2005, we may finance our contractual commitments, including principally the purchases of flight equipment, through various methods, including entering into finance leases, issuing equity-linked securities and entering into secured or unsecured bank facilities. We also may reduce our need for liquidity by decreasing our capital expenditure plan, as we did following the events of September 11, 2001, entering into sale and lease back transactions and considering the disposing of non-strategic assets. U.S. GAAP Reconciliation We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with French GAAP, which differs in certain significant aspects from U.S. GAAP. The principal differences between French GAAP and U.S. GAAP as they relate to us are discussed in note 35 to our consolidated financial statements. Note 36 to our consolidated financial statements contains a reconciliation of net income and stockholders’ equity under French GAAP to net income and stockholders’ equity under U.S. GAAP, as well as a summary of the adjustments to our income statements and stockholders’ equity that would have been required had we applied U.S. GAAP instead of French GAAP. Differences in net income and stockholders’ equity under French GAAP and U.S. GAAP primarily result from goodwill amortization, impairment of long lived assets, application of the equity method of accounting, stock-based compensation, accounting for leases (including sale-leaseback transactions), accounting for maintenance, restitution costs, derivative instruments and hedging activities and credit memos and related aircraft depreciation. Further information on such differences and adjustments is set forth in the notes to our consolidated financial statements mentioned above. Net income under U.S. GAAP increased to €754.8 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 from €172.8 million on a published restated basis for the previous period. This corresponds to a 336.8% increase in net income under U.S. GAAP as compared to a 277.4% increase in net income under French GAAP. This difference in trend is primarily related to derivative instruments and hedging activities accounting, which differ under French and U.S. GAAP. The U.S. GAAP adjustment for derivative instruments and hedging activities resulted in a gain of €687.8 million for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 as compared to a gain of €158.6 million for the previous period. The gain for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 is primarily associated with the effect of favorable fuel contracts when marked to market (€833 million) partially offset by the unfavorable effect of the change in fair value of foreign exchange derivative contracts (€138 million). 91 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements under U.S. GAAP Share-based payment—FASB Statement No. 123 (Revised 2004) In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123(R) that will require compensation costs related to share-based payment transaction to be recognized in the financial statements based on the grant-date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. This statement is effective as of the beginning of the first annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. We do not expect that the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 In January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) SFAS No. 106-1, “Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003” (“FSP 106-1”). Beginning in 2006, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“Medicare Act”) will introduce a federal subsidy to sponsors of healthcare benefit plans under certain circumstances and prescription drug benefits to eligible participants under Medicare. We have determined that the federal subsidy to be provided under the Medicare Act will not have an impact on our postretirement benefit plans. We believe, however, that the new prescription drug benefits under Medicare will reduce our future claims costs under our postretirement benefit plans. Exchanges on nonmonetary assets—FASB Statement No. 153, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 153, which exempts from fair value measurement the exchanges of nonmonetary assets that do not have commercial substance. A nonmonetary exchange has commercial substance if the future cash flows of the entity are expected to change significantly as a result of the exchange. This statement shall be applied prospectively and is effective for nonmonetary asset exchanges occurring in fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not expect that the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share In September 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) reached a consensus on EITF Issue 04-08, “The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share” (“EITF 04-08”). This EITF requires shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of contingently convertible debt instruments to be included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share whether or not the contingent conditions for conversion have been met, unless the inclusion of these shares is anti-dilutive. Previously, shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of contingently convertible debt securities were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share. Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments In September 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 03-1-1, Effective Date of Paragraphs 10– 20 of EITF Issue No. 03-1, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments”, which delays the effective date for the recognition and measurement guidance in EITF Issue No. 03-1. In addition, the FASB has issued a proposed FSP to consider whether further application guidance is necessary for securities analyzed for impairment under EITF Issue No. 03-1. We continue to assess the potential impact that the adoption of the proposed FSP could have on our financial statements. 92 Table of Contents FASB Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations In March 2005, the FASB issued Interpretation 47. This Interpretation clarifies that the term “conditional asset retirement obligation” as used in FASB Statement No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is conditional even though uncertainty exists about the timing and/or method of settlement. Uncertainty about the timing and/or method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists to make a reasonable estimate of the fair value of the obligation. Interpretation 47 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. We do not anticipate that the implementation of the provisions of FIN 47 will have a material effect on our financial position or on the results of operations. SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections—a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 In May 2005 the FASB published SFAS No. 154, which replaces APB Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, and FASB Statement No. 3, Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements, and applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principle and also to changes required by an accounting pronouncement only when it does not include specific transition provisions. Opinion 20 previously required that most voluntary changes in accounting principle be recognized by including in net income of the period of the change the cumulative effect of changing to the new accounting principle. This Statement requires retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in accounting principle, unless it is impracticable to determine either the period-specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change. When it is impracticable to determine the cumulative effect of applying a change in accounting principle to all prior periods, this Statement requires that the new accounting principle be applied as if it were adopted prospectively from the earliest date practicable. This Statement carries forward without change the guidance contained in Opinion 20: (i) for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued financial statements, (ii) for a change in accounting estimate, and (iii) requiring justification of a change in accounting principle on the basis of preferability. We believe that the initial application of the provisions of this Interpretation will not have a material impact on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards by Air France-KLM Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council of July 19, 2002 concerning the application of international accounting standards harmonizes the financial information required to be published by companies traded on a regulated market in the European Union guaranteeing transparency and comparability in financial statements. These accounting standards are known as International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Under the regulation, publicly traded European companies are required to use IFRS to prepare their consolidated financial statements for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2005. Air France-KLM will apply IFRS as of April 1, 2005. Adoption of IFRS will require us to publish a restated balance sheet as of April 1, 2004. This information has been submitted to the SEC on Form 6-K on June 29, 2005. 93 Table of Contents We have prior experience with the IFRS as well as the changes to the accounting standards. During the financial year ended March 31, 1999 Air France adopted procedures to comply with the original IFRS during its initial public offering (excluding the treatment of convertible bonds and the publication of certain information in the notes to the financial statements). Additionally, during the financial year ended March 31, 2002, Air France closely monitored the impact of the new standards and the standards revised in 1999 on its financial statements. During the financial year ended March 2003, Air France analyzed its financial information and the problems arising from standard IAS 39. During the financial year ended March 31, 2004 Air France reconciled its accounts to U.S. GAAP in connection with the filing of the Form F-4 with the SEC during the business combination with KLM. We have established procedures to convert our consolidated financial statements to IFRS. We have additionally identified the principal differences in accounting methods which relate to the first application of international financial information standards (IFRS 1), deferred taxes (IAS 12), investments in associates (IAS 28), consolidation and separate financial statements (IAS 27) and business combinations (IFRS 3). In recent years, we have anticipated the application of certain IFRS provisions and adopted certain of them ahead of schedule when they were compatible with French accounting rules. This was the case at the time the approach by components was adopted for recording tangible assets or valuing pension commitments. See notes 2.15 and 2.20 to our consolidated financial statements. In order to ensure consistency in our policies and their application, our IFRS conversion project is led by a centralized team for the consolidated group. 94 Table of Contents Item 6: DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES General Pursuant to French law, each Air France-KLM director, excluding the directors appointed to represent the French State, is required to hold at least one Air France-KLM share. Pursuant to our articles of association, each director, excluding the directors appointed to represent the French State, is required to hold at least 10 Air France-KLM shares (in registered form only) for the duration of its term. Board of Directors The membership of our board of directors and that of Air France prior to the hive down has changed following our privatization, the hive down, and pursuant to the agreements on corporate governance signed in the context of the Air France-KLM business combination: • on June 24, 2004, the board of directors of Air France consisted of 26 members, with 10 members elected by the general shareholders’ meeting and eight members representing the French State. In addition, pursuant to the provisions of the Law of April 9, 2003, the six representatives previously elected by the employees and the two members representing employee shareholders remained in office until the general shareholders’ meeting held September 15, 2004; • on September 15, 2004, the general shareholders’ meeting, upon the recommendation of Air France-KLM, following an election process involving employee participation, elected two new employee shareholder representatives to the board of directors of Air France-KLM; • since September 15, 2004, pursuant to the provisions of the Law of July 26, 2004 and after the hive down, six representatives were elected by the employees to the board of directors of Air France. At its meeting on June 24, 2004 and in accordance with the framework agreement, the board of directors of Air France appointed Leo van Wijk as vice chairman of the board of directors. After the hive down on September 15, 2004, Mr. van Wijk became vice chairman of the board of directors of Air France-KLM. Under the framework agreement, the Air France-KLM board of directors includes two directors proposed by the KLM supervisory board and the State of the Netherlands is entitled to propose a director for so long as the French State is represented on our board. Under the agreements entered into as part of the Air France-Alitalia alliance, Alitalia has the right to propose one representative to our board of directors. On September 15, 2004, the board of directors of Air France-KLM was reduced from 26 to 20 members: 12 directors elected by the general shareholders’ meeting, who include the two employee shareholder representatives, and eight directors appointed by the French State. The number of directors appointed by the French State must be proportional to the shareholding of the French State in Air France-KLM. On January 18, 2005, following the sale by the French State of part of its shareholding in Air France-KLM, the board of directors of Air France-KLM was further reduced from 20 to 15 members. The Air France-KLM articles of association permit the board of directors to be comprised of up to 18 members. Pursuant to French law, on January 20, 2005, our board of directors decided to add one board member. This decision was ratified by our general shareholders’ meeting held on July 12, 2005. Directors are appointed for six-year terms. 95 Table of Contents The table below shows the composition of our board of directors as of the date of this annual report: Name Date of InitialAppointment Term Expires Members Appointed by General Shareholders’ Meeting Jean-Cyril Spinetta Chairman of the board and chief executive officer September 23, 1997 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Leo van Wijk Vice chairman of the board of directors and chairman of the management board and chief executive officer of KLM June 24, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Patricia Barbizet CEO and director of Artémis January 3, 2003 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31,2010 Giancarlo Cimoli CEO and deputy director of Alitalia July 19, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Jean-François Dehecq Chairman and CEO of sanofi-aventis January 25, 1995 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Willem F. Duisenberg Member of the supervisory board of Rabobank June 24, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Jean-Marc Espalioux Chairman of the management board of Accor Group September 14, 2001 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Cornelius J.A. van Lede President of INSEAD June 24, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Floris Maljers Chairman of the supervisory board of the Rotterdam School of Management June 24, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Pierre Richard CEO and chairman of the management board of Dexia (administrateur délégué) October 20, 1997 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Members Appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting to Represent Employee Shareholders Christian Magne Executive appointed to represent ground staff and cabin crew employee shareholders September 14, 2001 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Members Added by the Board of Directors and Ratified by the General Shareholders’ Meeting Pierre-Henri Gourgeon Deputy chief executive officer of Air France-KLM January 20, 2005 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2011 96 Table of Contents Name Date of InitialAppointment Term Expires Members Appointed to Represent the French State Pierre-Mathieu Duhamel Director of the budget, Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry January 15, 2003 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Jean-Louis Girodolle Deputy director of treasury, Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry June 24, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Claude Gressier President of the Economic Section of the Conseil général des Ponts et Chaussées June 24, 2004 General Meeting approving the accounts for the financial year ending March 31, 2010 Christian Paris, a board member appointed by the general shareholders’ meeting on September 14, 2001 to represent employee shareholders, resigned from our board of directors at our general shareholders’ meeting held on July 12, 2005 with immediate effect. As of the date of this annual report, no replacement has been appointed. The secretary of Air France-KLM is Jean-Marc Bardy, general counsel of Air France. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, the Air France-KLM board of directors held ten meetings with an average attendance rate of 80.7% (86% during the financial year ended March 31, 2004). Matters dealt with at the meetings included the review and approval of the interim and final corporate and consolidated financial statements, the budget, investments in the long-haul fleet, the oil hedging policy, significant operations including changes to the structures of the Air France group, the capital increase reserved for KLM shareholders, the appointment and remuneration of corporate officers and regulated agreements. The following is a brief biography of each of the members of our board of directors: Members Appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting Jean-Cyril Spinetta was named chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer on October 22, 1997. Prior to joining Air France, Mr. Spinetta was with the French Ministry of Education, charged with evaluating employment opportunities in the French educational system. In 1996, Mr. Spinetta was a member of the cabinet of the European Commissioner for Science, Research and Education, and later that year he joined the Inspector’s Office in the French Ministry of Education. In 1994 and 1995, Mr. Spinetta held various positions in the French government, including chargé de mission to the President of the French Republic. From 1990 to 1993, Mr. Spinetta was chairman and chief executive officer of Air Inter. In addition to his position as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Air France-KLM, Mr. Spinetta is also chairman and chief executive officer of Air France and a member of the board of directors of Alitalia and Saint-Gobain. Mr. Spinetta is a graduate of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris and the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. Leo van Wijk was elected to the Air France-KLM board of directors in 2004. In addition to being vice chairman of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. van Wijk is chairman of the management board of KLM and chief executive officer of KLM. He is also a member of the board of directors of Northwest Airlines, a member of the advisory committee of ABN AMRO Holding and Kennemer Gasthuis, and a member of the supervisory boards of Martinair, Aegon N.V. and Randstad Holding N.V.. He holds a masters degree in economics. Patricia Barbizet was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2003. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Ms. Barbizet has been chief executive officer and a member of the 97 Table of Contents board of directors of Artemis SA since 1992, as well as chief operating officer of Financière Pinault since 2000. She is also chairman of the board of directors of Christie’s International, a member of the board of directors of Bouygues SA, TF1 and chairman of the supervisory board of Pinault-Printemps Redoute. She is a graduate of the Ecole Supérieure de Commerce de Paris. Giancarlo Cimoli was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2004. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Cimoli is chairman and deputy director of Alitalia and a director of Enia S.p.A. and EnerTAD S.p.A.. He is a graduate of the Polytechnic Institute of Milan. Jean-François Dehecq was elected to the Air France board of directors in 1995. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Dehecq is chairman and chief executive officer of Sanofi-Aventis. He is also chairman and director of Sanofi-Synthelabo, Daiichi Pharmaceuticals Co. and a director of Sanofi-Synthelabo Inc. and Fujisawa-Sanofi-Synthelabo. He is a graduate of the Ecole Nationale des Arts et Métiers. Willem F. Duisenberg was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2004. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Duisenberg is also a member of the supervisory board of Rabobank and a former president of the European Central Bank. Jean-Marc Espalioux was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2001. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Espalioux is chairman of the management board of the Accor Group. He is also a director of Veolia Environnement and Accor UK, a member of the supervisory board of Club Méditerranée and the permanent Accor representative on the supervisory board of Groupe Lucien Barrière SAS. He is a graduate of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris and the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. Cornelius J.A. van Lede was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2004. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. van Lede is the president of INSEAD, as well as chairman of the supervisory board of Heineken, a member of the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel, Philips Electronics and Air Liquide, and a director of Reed Elsevier and Sara Lee Corp. Mr. van Lede was the former chairman of the board of Akzo Nobel. Floris Maljers was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2004. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Maljers is chairman of the supervisory board of the Rotterdam School of Management, member of the preferred stock committee of DSM and member of the executive committee of Rand Europe. Mr. Maljers is also the retired chairman and CEO of Unilever. Pierre Richard was elected to the Air France board of directors in 1997. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Richard has been chairman and chief executive officer of Dexia since 1999. He is also chairman and managing director of the supervisory board of Dexia Crédit Local, vice chairman of the board of directors of Dexia Banque Belgium and Dexia Banque Internationale Luxembourg and a member of the board of directors of Dexia Banque, FSA Holding, Crédit du Nord, the European Investment Bank, Le Monde and Generali France Holding. He is also vice chairman of the French Association of Banks and a member of the executive committee of the French Banking Federation. He is a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique. Members Appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting to Represent Employee Shareholders Christian Magne, a representative of the ground staff and cabin crew employee shareholders of the company, was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2001. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Magne is a finance executive of Air France-KLM. 98 Table of Contents Member Added by the Board of Directors and Ratified by the General Shareholders’ Meeting Pierre-Henri Gourgeon was named chief operating officer of Air France on April 2, 1998, deputy chief executive officer of Air France-KLM on May 17, 2004 and deputy chief executive officer of Air France on September 15, 2004. Mr. Gourgeon had been Executive vice president - development and international affairs for Air France since December 1997. From March 1996 to November 1997, he served as chairman and chief executive officer of Amadeus France/Estérel, and he has been on the board of Amadeus Global Travel Distribution since 1996 and is currently the chairman thereof. From 1993 to 1996, he served as chairman and chief executive officer of Servair and a number of its subsidiaries. From 1990 to 1993, Mr. Gourgeon was director general of the French Civil Aviation Authority. Prior to that time, he held various positions in the French government and French State-owned enterprises. Mr. Gourgeon is a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique and the Ecole Nationale Supérieure de l’Aéronautique and holds a master’s degree in science from the California Institute of Technology. In addition, Mr. Gourgeon is a member of the board of directors of Autoroutes du Sud de la France and Stéria, as well as the Air France-KLM representative on the board of directors of Air France. Members Appointed to Represent the French State Pierre-Mathieu Duhamel was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2003. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Duhamel is director of the budget in the French Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry. He is also a member of the board of directors of France Telecom, EDF and SNCF, and an official member of the CEA. He is a graduate of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris and the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. Jean-Louis Girodolle was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2004. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Girodolle is the deputy director of treasury in the French Ministry of Economy, Finance and Industry. He is also a member of the board of directors of Renault, RATP, Autoroutes du Sud de la France and Aéroports de Paris. He is a graduate of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris and the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. Claude Gressier was elected to the Air France board of directors in 2004. In addition to being a member of the Air France-KLM board of directors, Mr. Gressier is the president of the Economic Section of the Conseil général des Ponts et Chaussées. He is a graduate of the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de Paris and the Ecole Polytechnique and is qualified as a general public works engineer. Air France-KLM Board Committees Audit committee The audit committee is in charge of recommending our statutory auditors for appointment and reviewing our consolidated financial statements, principal financial risks, results and scope of the internal audit, our audit program and the conclusions and the recommendations of the statutory auditors. The audit committee also supervises the procedures designed to ensure compliance with relevant stock exchange regulations. The audit committee is composed of five board members. Pursuant to the resolutions of the general shareholders’ meeting held on June 24, 2004, the current members of our audit committee are Pierre Richard as its chairman, Jean-François Dehecq, Jean-Louis Girodolle, Floris Maljers and Christian Magne. The meetings of the audit committee are also attended by the chief financial officer of Air France-KLM, the chief financial officer of KLM, the internal audit directors of each of Air France and KLM and the statutory auditors of Air France-KLM. The audit committee has been tasked to review our consolidated financial statements, our principal financial risks, our results of internal audits, our work program, and the conclusions and recommendations of our statutory 99 Table of Contents auditors. The audit committee also supervises our compliance with applicable stock market regulations. The audit committee approves the amount of our statutory auditors’ fees and approves certain services provided by our statutory auditors. In addition, the audit committee reviews our interim and annual consolidated financial statements before they are submitted to our board of directors, and: • reviews the scope of consolidation; • reviews the relevance and permanence of the accounting methods used to prepare our financial statements; • reviews the principal estimates made by management; • considers the comments of our statutory auditors and, if applicable, any significant adjustments resulting from audits; • conducts a periodic review, together with our management, of the principal financial risks and off-balance sheet commitments of Air France-KLM and, where necessary, issues an opinion on the significant financial transactions of Air France-KLM; and • reviews the scope and results of internal audits conducted by each of Air France and KLM. The audit committee met on May 12, 2004 to review our annual financial statements as of and for the financial year ended March 31, 2004, on November 15, 2004 to review the six month financial statements as of and for the six months ended September 30, 2004 and on February 14, 2005 to review the quarterly financial statements as of and for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. The audit committee also met on September 21, 2004 with an attendance rate of 80% to review our annual report as of and for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the process to reconcile our annual financial statements to U.S. GAAP. This meeting also addressed the application of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to Air France-KLM. At its meeting on February 14, 2005, the audit committee considered the progress of the internal control action plan and internal audit work program. The average attendance rate at such meetings was 81.7% (87.5% during the financial year ended March 31, 2004). The audit committee additionally met on May 13, 2005 to review our annual financial statements as of and for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Finally, the audit committee met on June 20, 2005 to review our fuel and exchange rate hedging policy as well as our internal control procedures. This meeting also was dedicated to reviewing this annual report on Form 20-F. Strategy committee The strategy committee is in charge of reviewing the strategic decisions concerning our activities, changes in the structure of our fleet or subsidiaries, the purchase or sale of aircraft-related or other assets, and the air sub-contracting and alliance policy. The strategy committee is composed of seven board members. The current members of our strategy committee are Jean-Cyril Spinetta as its chairman, Patricia Barbizet, Pierre-Mathieu Duhamel, Leo van Wijk, Claude Gressier and Christian Magne. The meetings of the strategy committee are also attended by the deputy chief executive officer, the chief financial officer and the secretary of the board of directors of Air France-KLM. Christian Paris, a member of our strategy committee during the financial year ended March 31, 2005, resigned from our board of directors at our general shareholders’ meeting held on July 12, 2005 with immediate effect. As of the date of this annual report, no replacement has been appointed. 100 Table of Contents The strategy committee met on November 8, 2004. This meeting addressed the future of Air France’s stake in Amadeus and our fuel policy. During its meeting on February 7, 2005, the strategy committee reviewed the changes in the Air France long-haul fleet plan. The attendance rate for members was 100% (87.5% for meetings during the financial year ended March 31, 2004). Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is responsible for formulating proposals as to the level of and modifications to the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer’s compensation. The remuneration committee may also be called upon to give an opinion on compensation paid to senior executives as well as on any stock subscription or option plan policy. The remuneration committee is composed of three board members. The current members of our remuneration committee are Jean-Marc Espalioux as its chairman, Cornelis J.A. van Lede and Pierre Richard. The remuneration committee met on June 15, 2004 and November 23, 2004 to provide an opinion to the board of directors on the variable portion of the compensation of the chairman and chief executive officer for the financial year ended March 31, 2004 and to prepare for the board’s discussions on the compensation of the chairman and chief executive officer and the deputy chief executive officer for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. The attendance rate of members at each meeting was 100%. Appointments committee In connection with our privatization, the regulations regarding the nomination of directors and officers and the agreements entered into with KLM, we have an appointments committee composed of three board members. The current members of our appointments committee are Jean-Marc Espalioux as its chairman, Patricia Barbizet and Jean-François Dehecq, as well as one substitute member. The internal rules of the appointments committee were approved by the board of directors on March 4, 2004. The appointments committee proposes candidates to serve as members of the board of directors, which approves these recommendations and submits them for election to the general shareholders’ meeting of Air France-KLM. The appointments committee also appoints the members of the strategic management committee after consulting with the chairman and chief executive officer of Air France-KLM for the members that represent Air France and with the KLM supervisory board for the members that represent KLM. The appointments committee met in April 2004 to make recommendations to the board of directors for the election of new board members by the general shareholders’ meeting of June 24, 2004. The attendance rate at the committee meeting was 100%. Senior Management of Air France-KLM At its meeting on June 24, 2004, our board of directors voted not to separate the functions of the chairman and chief executive officer. The chairman is appointed by the board of directors and has full powers to manage Air France-KLM, except for certain limitations set out in the internal rules of the board. These rules stipulate that the chairman and chief executive officer must obtain prior approval from the board of directors to carry out the following operations, when the value thereof exceeds €150 million: • the acquisition or sale of any interests in any companies formed or to be formed, participation in the establishment of any companies, groups or organizations, subscription to any issue of stock, shares or bonds; or • the grant of any security interest, with or without a cash payment, in Air France-KLM’s assets, stock or securities. 101 Table of Contents The chairman and chief executive officer of Air France-KLM at the date of this report is Jean-Cyril Spinetta. At its meeting of June 24, 2004, the board of directors decided to appoint a deputy chief executive officer to assist the chairman and chief executive officer. The deputy chief executive officer must however submit agreements valued at more than €50 million for signature by the chairman and chief executive officer. The deputy chief executive officer of Air France-KLM at the date of this report is Pierre-Henri Gourgeon. Compensation of Directors and Officers The board of directors’ meeting held on May 17, 2004 approved the allocation of €12,000 as fixed compensation and €12,000 as variable compensation to be paid subject to shareholders’ authorization. The general shareholders’ meeting held on June 24, 2005 approved the allocation of compensation to the directors within a limit of €800,000. Members of our board of directors may also be reimbursed for travel expenses or expenses incurred on behalf of Air France-KLM. Members of the audit, strategy and compensation committees of Air France-KLM may receive a special financial compensation for their membership on such committees. For the financial year ending March 31, 2005, €10,000 has been paid to the chairman of our audit committee, €7,000 to the chairmen of all other committees, €6,000 to each member of our audit committee and €4,000 to each member of all other committees. The individual directors received the following compensation, directly or indirectly, for services in all capacities: Directors Directors’ fees paid byAir France-KLM (in €) Jean-Cyril Spinetta 31,000 Leo van Wijk 22,060 Patricia Barbizet 28,727 Giancarlo Cimoli 9,091 Jean-François Dehecq 35,818 Pierre-Mathieu Duhamel 29,500 (1) Willem F. Duisenberg 15,878 Jean-Marc Espalioux 30,364 Jean-Louis Girodolle 19,560 (1) Pierre-Henri Gourgeon 4,849 Claude Gressier 16,969 (1) Cornelis J.A. van Lede 17,878 Christian Magne 32,500 Floris A. Maljers 21,469 Christian Paris(2) 26,909 Pierre Richard 29,636 Directors who left office during the financial year 180,820 Total 553,028 Note: (1) Amount paid directly to the French Treasury (2) Christian Paris resigned from our board of directors at our general shareholders’ meeting held on July 12, 2005, with immediate effect. As of the date of this annual report, no replacement has been appointed. 102 Table of Contents Pursuant to our articles of association, the board of directors has authority to determine the compensation of our chairman, our chief executive officer and our deputy chief executive officer upon a proposal of the remuneration committee. Under an agreement approved by the board of directors on November 23, 2004, the compensation of the chairman and chief executive officer and the deputy chief executive officer of Air France-KLM is invoiced to Air France for the responsibilities that they undertake for Air France. The compensation for chairman and chief executive officer Jean-Cyril Spinetta, for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, consisted of: • a base annual compensation of €550,000; and • an objectives-based bonus of up to 60% of the base compensation, with 50% linked to the achievement of new strategic objectives (market share increases, preservation of financial equilibrium) and 50% linked to the achievement of objectives relating to Air France-KLM’s results as set forth in the budget. The total compensation paid to Jean-Cyril Spinetta for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 was €710,000 (up from €425,200 for the financial year ended March 31, 2004), including a bonus of €160,000 for full achievement of objectives for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. For the financial year ending March 31, 2006, Jean-Cyril Spinetta will receive an annual base compensation of €750,000 and an objective-based bonus of up to 60% of the base compensation, with 50% linked to the achievement of new strategic objectives (market share increases, preservation of financial equilibrium) and 50% linked to the achievement of objectives relating to Air France-KLM’s results as set forth in the budget. Jean-Cyril Spinetta is a beneficiary of the pension plan set up in 2003 for 39 executives of Air France that guarantees an annual pension of between 35% and 40% of his average annual compensation for his last three years of service, based his years of service. No severance package is planned in the event Mr. Spinetta leaves Air France-KLM. The compensation for deputy chief executive officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, consisted of: • a base annual compensation of €370,000; and • an objectives-based bonus of up to 50% of the base compensation, with 50% linked to the achievement of new strategic objectives (market share increases, preservation of financial equilibrium) and 50% linked to the achievement of objectives relating to Air France-KLM’s results as set forth in the budget. The total compensation paid to Pierre-Henri Gourgeon for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 was €505,975, including a bonus of €142,300. For the financial year ending March 31, 2006, Pierre-Henri Gourgeon will receive an annual base compensation of €550,000 and an objective-based bonus of up to 60% of the base compensation, with 50% linked to the achievement of new strategic objectives (market share increases, preservation of financial equilibrium) and 50% linked to the achievement of objectives relating to Air France-KLM’s results as set forth in the budget. Pierre-Henri Gourgeon is also a beneficiary of the pension plan set up in 2003 for 39 executives of Air France that guarantees an annual pension of between 35% and 40% of his average annual compensation for his last three years of service, based on his years of service. No severance package is planned in the event Mr. Gourgeon leaves Air France-KLM. Mr. Spinetta and Mr. Gourgeon have each participated in the offer to Air France employees to exchange salary for shares in Air France-KLM. As a result of their participation in the offer, the shareholding of each of Mr. Spinetta and Mr. Gourgeon in Air France-KLM has substantially increased and their compensation has, as of May 1, 2005, been reduced. In the case of Mr. Spinetta, this reduction is in an amount of €12,480 per month for a period of six years. In the case of Mr. Gourgeon, this reduction is in an amount of €8,400 per month for a period of six years. The compensation of the Chairman of the KLM management board is decided by the KLM supervisory board and is paid by KLM. The total compensation paid to Leo van Wijk for the financial year ended March 31, 2005 was €1,083,440, including a bonus of €429,731, for partial achievement of objectives. Mr. van Wijk also benefits from a pension 103 Table of Contents plan managed in accordance with Dutch law. KLM contributed €228,278 to this plan for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Additionally, Leo van Wijk may benefit from a severance package equal to his final salary plus an amount equal to the average of his bonuses for the prior three years if his contract is not renewed when it expires in January 2007. Stock options granted to the personnel of Air France-KLM We do not currently provide our directors, executives or officers with a stock option plan. For information on the stock option schemes established by Air France and KLM for their own executives, officers or employees which entitled the holders to shares of Air France-KLM, see “—Employees—Air France Employment Policy—Employee Share Arrangements” and “—Employees—KLM Work Force and Employment Policy—Employee Incentive Plan”. Share Ownership As of March 31, 2005, none of our directors or senior executives beneficially owned, or held options to purchase, 1% or more of our ordinary shares. The following table sets forth the share ownership, as of March 31, 2005, of the members of our board of directors, excluding shares held in the Fonds Commun de Placement d’Entreprise (the collective employee shareholding fund), of Air France-KLM shares: Name Number ofshares held Jean-Cyril Spinetta 65,240 Leo van Wijk 500 Patricia Barbizet 2,000 Giancarlo Cimoli 10 Jean-François Dehecq 523 Willem Duisenberg 100 Jean-Marc Espalioux 601 Pierre-Henri Gourgeon 44,769 Cornelis J. A. van Lede 1,000 Floris Maljers 500 Pierre Richard 401 Christian Magne 172 Christian Paris(1) 28,000 Total 143,816 Note: (1) Christian Paris resigned from our board of directors at our general shareholders’ meeting held on July 12, 2005, with immediate effect. As of the date of this annual report, no replacement has been appointed. The representatives of the French State on our board of directors are not required to hold shares in Air France-KLM. Strategic management committee Pursuant to the terms of the framework agreement, on May 6, 2004, Air France and KLM established a strategic management committee. The decision of the strategic management committee represents the common position of Air France and KLM with respect to all major strategic decisions relating to commercial, financial, technical and operational matters, including but not limited to: • strategy regarding our competitive environment, partners and public authorities; 104 Table of Contents • strategic orientation with respect to network management, including hub growth, significant changes in network structure, introduction of overlapping routes, agreements with other operators, sharing between KLM and Air France of traffic rights in the event of a decision to lift the national origin restrictions at the European level; • funding, debt issuances and significant investments in fleet, information systems and major projects; • significant financial investments and strategic airline partnerships or cooperation agreements and alliances; • purchasing policies; • mid-term planning and budgets to ensure compatibility with the strategy agreed by the strategic management committee; • appointments of key personnel in Air France and KLM to be selected from lists prepared by Air France and KLM, respectively; • inclusion of other airlines in Air France-KLM; • human resources policies covering multi-company issues; • any decision regarding the Dutch airline Martinair, of which KLM is a shareholder; and • any reserved or consultation matters (which are discussed below). The framework agreement provides that operational subcommittees may be established under the supervision of the strategic management committee. Thus far the strategic management committee has established 13 operational subcommittees, in the following areas: commercial, marketing, revenue management and network, cargo, engineering and maintenance, fleet, information technology, corporate purchasing, human resources/culture, communication, finance, hubs and grounds services, flight operations and brand and product. The strategic management committee also mediates differences that may arise regarding the application of bilateral agreements or the management of entities that are owned or operated together by Air France and KLM. The strategic management committee makes binding recommendations with respect to the matters above to the board of directors of Air France, the KLM management board and the KLM supervisory board. The chief executive officer of KLM, the chairman of the board of directors of Air France and any chairman, board member or key officer of the combined operating companies or their subsidiaries may not make or implement any major strategic decisions before the strategic management committee has been consulted and are required to implement any such decision in accordance with the binding recommendation of the committee. The strategic management committee makes its decisions by majority vote, except in respect of the following reserved matters, which require the unanimous consent of all committee members: • any decision proposing an amendment to the KLM assurances; • any decision whose purpose or effect is: • to combine or create common activities among the Air France and KLM operating activities existing as of the date of the framework agreement (such as the integration into a joint structure of catering or cargo activities) or any global reorganization of any such operating activities by way of discontinuation or disinvestment for both Air France and KLM; 105 Table of Contents • to alter the allocation of key management personnel or of an entire operating activity between Air France and KLM; or • related to the timing, phasing in and structure of any decision relating to the two matters noted immediately above; and • any decision to enter into an intercompany agreement other than at arm’s length. Any rejection by the strategic management committee of a proposed action on one of these reserved matter will be binding. On all matters requiring a majority vote, the chairman of the strategic management committee has the deciding vote in the event of a tie, except that until May 6, 2007, the chairman is required to consult with KLM’s chief executive officer prior to exercising his deciding vote with respect to the following “consultation” matters: • the coordination of Air France and KLM capacities, schedules and days of operation relating to joint destinations; • the coordination in order to avoid unfair behavior of any partner in alliance with Air France against KLM or any partner in alliance with KLM against Air France; and • the scheduling of passenger services between France and the Netherlands. The strategic management committee will remain in place until May 6, 2007, unless the chairman of the board of directors of Air France-KLM decides to maintain the committee or decides to create an equivalent body after that date. As of the date of this annual report, the strategic management committee consisted of the following eight members: • Jean-Cyril Spinetta, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of Air France-KLM and Air France, as chairman; • Leo van Wijk, vice chairman of the board of directors of Air France-KLM, the chairman of the KLM management board and chief executive officer of KLM; • Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, deputy chief executive officer of Air France-KLM and Air France and chief operating officer of Air France; • Philippe Calavia, vice president - finance of Air France-KLM and chief financial officer of Air France; • Peter Hartman, member of the KLM management board and chief operating officer of KLM; • Bruno Matheu, senior vice president of marketing and network management of Air France; • Michael Wisbrun, executive vice president of KLM cargo; and • Cees van Woudenberg, member of the KLM management board and chief human resources officer of KLM. The following is a brief biography of each of the members of the strategic management committee: Jean-Cyril Spinetta. See “—Members Appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting” above. Leo van Wijk. See “—Members Appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting” above. 106 Table of Contents Pierre-Henri Gourgeon. See “—Members Added by the Board of Directors and Ratified by the General Shareholders’ Meeting” above. Philippe Calavia was named chief financial officer of Air France on August 14, 1998. Prior to joining Air France, from 1992 to 1998, Mr. Calavia was president and chief executive officer of several entities of the Natexis Group, including Natexis S.A. and Natexis Banque. Prior to that time, Mr. Calavia held various positions in the French government, including advisor to the French Prime Minister, Laurent Fabius. He is a director of Amadeus GTD. Mr. Calavia is a graduate of the Ecole Nationale d’Administration. Peter Hartman is managing director and chief operations officer of KLM and was appointed to the KLM management board in 1997. He is also a member of the supervisory board of RAI Amsterdam B.V., member of the supervisory board of Martinair Holland B.V. He is a graduate in mechanical engineering of the Polytechnic Institute of Amsterdam and a graduate in management from the University of Rotterdam. Bruno Matheu was named executive vice president of marketing and network management of Air France on April 2, 1998. Prior to taking up his current position, Mr. Matheu had been director of network optimization, responsible for flight programs, price/yield management and partnership resources (franchising and charter flights) since September 1997. Mr. Matheu joined UTA (which was merged with Air France in 1990) in 1986 and held various positions, including head of the Economic Synthesis section of the Programming Department and head of the Department of Economic Planning. He is a director of Régional, Brit Air, CityJet and Amadeus GTD. Mr. Matheu is a graduate of the Ecole Centrale de Paris. Michael Wisbrun is the executive vice president of KLM cargo. Mr. Wisbrun holds a masters degree in engineering from the University of Delft. Cees van Woudenberg is managing director and chief human resources officer of KLM and was appointed to the KLM management board in 1997. He is also a member of the supervisory board of DSM N.V., Aalsmeer Flower Auction, Transavia Airlines B.V. and Mercurius Groep Wormerveer B.V., and a member of the Advisory Board of Deloitte & Touche Human Capital Group until March 2004. Mr. van Woudenberg is a graduate in law of the University of Leiden. The Framework Agreement provides that, if we acquire or merge into a third airline prior to May 6, 2007, the chairman will continue to have the deciding vote on the strategic management committee in the event of a tie, except with respect to the reserved matters relating to KLM, over which the KLM members of the strategic management committee will have a veto right. The members of the strategic management committee are compensated directly by either Air France or KLM. Employees Employees of Air France-KLM As at the date of this annual report, Air France-KLM had no direct employees other than the chairman and chief executive officer and deputy chief executive officer. Pursuant to the service agreement entered into between Air France-KLM, Air France and KLM on September 15, 2004 and a decision of the president and chief executive officer of Air France-KLM on May 23, 2005, executives and staff of Air France and KLM serve in such capacities at Air France-KLM, such as in the functions of accounting, financial and treasury services, internal inspections and controls, legal and administrative, and office property services. Each of Air France and KLM retains responsibility for managing its work force, based on applicable legislation in France and the Netherlands. However, a program has been instituted to promote a joint culture, for example, by an exchange of managers. 107 Table of Contents The weighted average number of employees for the financial year ended March 31, 2005, for Air France-KLM was 102,163. The following table gives further details on the employees of Air France-KLM for the financial year ended March 31, 2005. Air France-KLM Ground staff 74,462 Cabin crew 19,829 Cockpit crew 7,786 Total 102,077 Board Representation Employee representation on the Air France-KLM board of directors is governed by a provision of the French Civil Aviation Code (Code de l’aviation civile). As of the date of this annual report, the Air France-KLM board of directors comprises two employee representatives elected or appointed for a six-year term. These two representatives are appointed among the employee shareholders by the general shareholders’ meeting, including one appointed among the flight deck crew and one appointed among any of the other categories of personnel, provided that each of the flight deck crew and “other” categories holds at least 2% of Air France’s share capital. The two representatives of the employee shareholders were initially appointed by the general shareholders’ meeting held on September 14, 2001 and were reelected by the general shareholders’ meeting held on September 15, 2004. Pursuant to French law no. 2004-734 of July 26, 2004, the six employee representatives elected by the employees now sit on the board of directors of Air France. Employment Policy Due to the differences between Dutch and French social legislation, and under the terms of the business combination, each of Air France and KLM pursue their own human resources management policy while facilitating cooperation through a limited number of common initiatives including intercultural training sessions, group-wide dialogues with the works council representative bodies, continual monitoring of employees’ assessment of the combination and a manager exchange program for talented young managers to gain experience in different positions at both airlines. Air France Employment Policy Following the events of September 11, 2001, Air France decided to implement a hiring freeze and not to renew temporary and fixed-term employment contracts. These measures, which affected some 2,000 jobs, enabled Air France to maintain its workforce throughout a period of interrupted growth. Because of the impact of SARS and the Iraq war on air travel, Air France froze hiring during the year ended March 31, 2004 and is currently conducting only limited hiring. During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, the total Air France workforce fell from 59,458 to 59,296 full time equivalent employees. The Air France workforce as at March 31, 2005 comprised 37,100 ground staff (including 36,587 permanent employees), 12,406 cabin crew and 4,089 flight deck crew. Local personnel represented 5,701 people. Ground staff retirement increased during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 to 737 compared to 317 for the financial year ended March 31, 2004. Labor Regulations The status of Air France’s personnel is established by its board of directors and is subject to French ministerial approval after review by the relevant labor unions. Prior to and for a transition period of up to two years after May 6, 2004, the date on which the French State ceased to hold a majority of Air France’s share capital, Air France has been subject to a statutory regime applicable to its employees covering such matters as conditions of employment, hiring, promotion, dismissal, 108 Table of Contents remuneration, discipline, transfers, unpaid leave, medical care, union rights and pensions. After the transition period, Air France’s employees will be subject to collective bargaining agreements and general French labor law rather than a particular statutory regime. The principal effects of this change will be: • at present, Air France employees are entitled to the same unemployment benefits as employees of the private sector, but with benefits paid by Air France and managed by UNEDIC, the French national unemployment insurance system. Following the end of the transition period, Air France will be required to pay unemployment insurance premiums directly to UNEDIC, which will then assume responsibility for making payments to Air France employees who are laid off. This change is expected to result in increased expenses of €149 million per year by Air France once the transition period ends. In addition, in May 2004, Air France began paying an estimated €7 million per year in salary guarantee insurance (AGS), which protects employees in the event of an employer bankruptcy; • under Air France’s current statutory regime, employees must give advance notice of work stoppages, while revolving strikes are prohibited. Once the statutory regime ends, procedures for handling collective conflicts will no longer be specified by law and are likely to be negotiated between trade unions and Air France; • the law of July 26, 1983 relating to the democratization of the public sector no longer applies to Air France following the privatization. As a result, Air France is no longer legally bound to negotiate the terms of exercise of union rights, although Air France expects that such negotiations will continue to take place; and • the 2003 Air Carrier Law provides for the possibility for early retirement by members of the cabin crew. This law has been supplemented by French Decree n° 2004-1427 of December 23, 2004 and modified by French Law n° 2004-734 of July 26, 2004, which provide for a new retirement age of 55. Air France believes that the statutory regime governing collective labor relations for Air France currently in place is largely compatible with the regime under general French law that will apply for the transition period noted above and does not expect significant difficulties in the transition. Workers’ Committees Since 1985, employee representatives of Air France and its subsidiaries are brought together in Workers’ Committees (Comités d’entreprise). During the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France reorganized its Workers’ Committees based on the organization of Air France rather than on geographic location. There are currently eight Workers’ Committees corresponding to the major divisions of Air France – France Commercial Affairs, International Commercial Affairs, Ground Operations, Air Operations, Industrial, Air France Cargo, Information Systems and Headquarters and Support. Union elections of March 10, 2005 were held based on this new organizational structure. In addition, the Central Workers’ Committee (Comité central d’entreprise), which Air France is required by law to consult on specified matters of significance, is composed of members designated by the eight Workers’ Committees, of which three represent flight personnel pursuant to the provisions of the French Civil Aviation Code. Pursuant to the E.U. directive of September 22, 1994 and the law implementing the directive into French law of November 12, 1996, a European Group Workers’ Committee was created in order to enhance the exchange of information, consultation and labor discussions at a European level. This committee is composed of 30 employee representatives. Under the terms of the framework agreement, Air France and KLM created an ad hoc committee to ensure representation of Air France and KLM employees at the European level. This committee comprises 14 members, four representatives appointed by each of the central workers’ committee of Air France and KLM and three by each of the European Group Workers’ Committee of Air France and KLM. 109 Table of Contents Employee Policy For the past several years, Air France’s employee policies have been based primarily on the signing of multi-year agreements, recruitment and training, and a profit-sharing plan covering all employees. All the significant French labor unions are present within Air France, including professional union organizations for flight personnel. Air France has entered into three important multi-year agreements providing a framework for Air France’s partnership with its employees: the 2003-2005 Flight Deck Crew Agreement, the 2002-2005 Ground Staff Agreement and the 2003-2008 Cabin Crew Agreement. The Flight Deck Crew Agreement principally relates to: salary increases indexed to the rate of inflation until 2005; higher remuneration during continuing qualification training; remuneration on a per flight basis; and specific conciliation procedures to be followed in the event of disagreement between the pilots and the company. The Ground Staff Agreement emphasizes internal resource value and is structured around a framework of sustainable development, focusing on workplace health and safety issues, integration of disabled employees, professional equality between male and female workers, and youth integration through work-study programs. The Cabin Crew Agreement addresses issues such as promotion, career development, remuneration, the creation of a preventive health service, sick leave, work scheduling matters, reclassification of employees no longer serving as cabin crew and dismissal indemnities. The agreement also covers flex-time work arrangement and vacation time. In addition, procedures for mediation in the event of labor conflict and for changes in the event of a crisis are set out in the agreement. In July 2003, the agreement was amended to provide in particular for a merit-based, rather than seniority-based, advancement system for management. In the financial year ended March 31, 2005, Air France entered into nine agreements with its flight crew, including amendments to the cabin and flight deck crew agreements, as well as two agreements with ground staff. On March 8, 2004, Air France signed a 2004-2007 protocol for the exercise of union rights for all ground and flight employees. Employee Share Arrangements Offering Reserved to Employees Pursuant to French law applicable to companies in which the French State holds more than 20% of its share capital, when the French State sells shares in a company, it must give eligible employees of that company the opportunity to purchase a portion of those shares at a reduced price. On December 9, 2004, the French State held 23.2% of our share capital and sold part of its shareholding in Air France-KLM enabling eligible employees to acquire 21.6 million shares through an employee share offering and a shares-for-salary exchange. The subscription period ran from February 1, 2005 through February 21, 2005. The employee share offering was 1.4 times oversubscribed and the shares-for-salary exchange was slightly more than 93% subscribed. The employee shareholding has increased by approximately 7.7%: 3.2% through the employee share offering and 4.5% through the shares-for-salary exchange. Following the delivery of shares pursuant to the employee share offering, and the shares-for-salary exchange in March 2005 and April 2005, respectively, the French State’s shareholding in Air France-KLM was reduced to 18.6%. As is customary for companies whose shares are being sold by the French State, we contributed in such employee offering, and intend to contribute for similar future offerings, to eligible employees to permit them to participate. The amount of our contribution was €16 million for the 2005 employee share offering. The precise amount of the expense from these contributions in the future cannot reasonably be estimated at this time since the expense will vary as a function of the number of shares for which employees subscribe, the total volume of shares and the offering price. Employees acquiring Air France-KLM shares in this manner are prohibited by law from reselling the shares for a period of two years or, if they have received a company contribution, five years. 110 Table of Contents Shares-for-salary Exchange Pursuant to French Law no. 98-546 of July 2, 1998, the French State was authorized at the time of Air France’s initial public offering in February 1999 to grant a portion of its Air France shares to Air France employees in exchange for voluntary reductions in salary (a shares-for-salary exchange). Most recently, following the sale of Air France-KLM shares by the French State in December 2004, the French State sold 12,612,671 shares to qualified employees pursuant to the shares-for-salary exchange in February 2005. Under an agreement reached on September 18, 2003 between Air France and several of its labor unions, all Air France employees were able to participate in the shares-for-salary exchange by agreeing to salary reductions for a period of six years. Because the French State provided all of the Air France-KLM shares given to employees pursuant to the shares-for-salary exchange but shares the benefits of the salary reductions with our other shareholders, an agreement has been signed in July 2003 between Air France and the French State whereby we will compensate the French State for the cost to it of the shares-for-salary exchange. Under this agreement, we will pay to the French State an amount that will vary depending on the number of Air France-KLM shares transferred by the French State, and the proportion of our total share capital held by the French State, but that will, in any event, not exceed the savings to us resulting from the shares-for-salary exchange. We generally have two years from the date that the French State sells in an employee offering in which to make our compensation payment, although interest will accrue after 90 days. The French State and we may decide that the compensation payment be will made either in cash or by the provision by us of the shares to be transferred to employees (in the place of the French State) or by the transfer by us of our shares to the French State. With respect to the shares-for-salary exchange of February 2005 to Air France employees, we expect to pay the French State a total of €109.7 million in cash. Stock Option Plan Air France has in place a stock option plan for pilots who accepted the original shares-for-salary exchange in 1999. This stock option plan has the following characteristics: • number of beneficiaries: 2,787 flight deck crew, • maximum number of options: 3,516,596, • maximum number of shares that may be purchased: 3,516,596, • option exercise price: €15.75, and • exercise conditions: between May 30, 2005 and May 30, 2007 at a rate of one share per option. Under this plan, the 10 largest beneficiaries hold a total of 79,465 options to acquire Air France-KLM. Profit Sharing and Benefits In September 2002, employee profit-sharing and incentive agreements were signed for a period of three years, renewing agreements originally signed in 1999. An amendment to the incentive agreement was signed on September 30, 2004. These profit-sharing and incentive agreements cover all employees of Air France in France and abroad, including local employees. The level of employee profit-sharing is linked to Air France’s operational and financial performance. The benchmark calculation for financial performance is operating income corrected for aircraft dispositions not corresponding to actual removals from the Air France fleet. This operating income previously had to surpass a minimum threshold of €100 million prior to any employee participation in profits, but this threshold was reduced to zero in September 2003 in order to not penalize employees for challenging conditions in the airline industry that are beyond their control. Air France’s overall operational performance is also taken into consideration and is measured according to four criteria: timeliness, productivity, customer satisfaction and workplace safety. 111 Table of Contents Air France employees have the option of receiving benefits (including, without limitation, Air France-KLM shares) under these plans in cash or may have their benefits invested in one of the following five funds of Air France’s company savings plan (Plan d’Epargne Entreprise): • an Air France share fund, • an Air France share fund providing matching contributions averaging 50% of employee contributions up to a given limit, • a fixed income diversified fund, • a mixed fixed income and equity diversified fund, and • an equity diversified fund. Retirement Ground Staff In France, social charges and levies are based on the salaries paid and cover social security benefits and pension entitlements. Contributions are made both by the employer and the employee. The Air France group’s employees, in relation to pensions, are covered by the general French social security pension system and supplemental mandatory systems. Since January 1, 1993, Air France’s ground staff have been covered by supplemental pension plans (ARRCO and AGIRC) which are subject to French general law. Previously, ground staff participated in a pension plan created in 1951 that was exclusive to members of Air France’s ground staff (Caisse de Retraite du Personnel au Sol d’Air France or CRAF). On January 1, 1993, ground staff began participating in the ARRCO and AGIRC pension plans. A system of differentials was then put into place in order to guarantee the vested pension rights (up to December 31, 1992) of those already retired under the CRAF and the validation of pension rights for past services under the CRAF regime for those persons still working. This system of differentials was implemented pursuant to an inter-ministerial order of June 1, 1993. The CRAF pays the differential to the beneficiaries without reduction if the beneficiary elects retirement at age 60. The financing of the differential system, which is expected to end in 2060, is guaranteed by (i) the reserve fund of the CRAF (for 50% of the differential) and (ii) an undertaking by Air France (for 50% of the differential, and 100% once the CRAF no longer has any funds). At March 31, 2005, Air France recorded provisions of €335 million for estimated total CRAF pension commitments of €981 million, with a market value of plan assets of €620 million. Retirement age is set by French general law and is in no event later than the age of 65. Flight Personnel Flight deck crew and cabin crew in France are mandatorily registered with a specific retirement pension fund for civil aviation flight personnel (Caisse de Retraite du Personnel Navigant Professionel de l’Aviation Civile, or CRPNPAC). Under the rules of this pension fund, retirement age is fixed for the cabin crew at 55 (with the possibility of early retirement at 50) and at 60 for the flight deck crew. All flight personnel are eligible for the retirement pension at the maximum rate once 25 years of contributions to the fund have been made, as long as the sum of the employee’s age and the number of years the employee contributed to the fund is equal to 75 years. Foreign Pension Schemes In addition to defined benefit pension schemes for employees in France, Air France grants various defined pension benefits to its employees abroad and termination benefit schemes. The major foreign employee benefit liabilities of Air France are located in the United States, where Air France currently has two overfunded defined benefit pension plans, in the United Kingdom, where employees of 112 Table of Contents the local representation office and local subsidiaries are granted a supplemental pension benefit administered through a specific pension fund, and in Japan, where employees benefit from a supplemental pension plan and lump-sum termination payments. At March 31, 2005, Air France recorded provisions of €359 million for projected benefit obligations of €857 million, with a market value of plan assets of €404 million. In addition, almost all other foreign representation offices grant termination benefits or lump-sum payments to their employees. Progressive Early Retirement Plan A progressive early retirement plan was offered to employees beginning April 1, 2003 to full-time employees over 55 years of age. This plan, which was signed with the French State, provides for up to 1,000 beneficiaries, and is expected to result in the recruitment of 500 replacement employees. Employees accepting the plan reduce their working hours over five years and receive up to 80% of their salary, with half of the initial salary being paid by Air France and the remainder coming from a public fund. KLM Employment Policy As of December 31, 2004, KLM employed 28,105 people, including approximately 25,000 in the Netherlands. Of the 25,000 employees in the Netherlands, 10,151 are women and 35% are part-time employees. In the financial year ended March 31, 2004, KLM initiated an extensive cost-cutting program affecting all employees. The objectives for lower costs and higher productivity resulted in the implementation of organizational changes in cooperation with the unions and employee consultation boards. The implementation of this cost-cutting program has resulted in the elimination of 4,500 jobs, in large part by implementing fixed-term and temporary employment. KLM has also set up a center dedicated to retraining the employees concerned. As of January 1, 2005, this retraining center had assisted 548 people, more than two-thirds of which have been relocated either internally or externally. On June 14, 2004, a new collective agreement was signed with the unions for the period from April to December 2004. Under the terms of this new agreement, a bonus of 1% of the annual salary was paid to KLM ground staff in August 2004. As the budget objectives for the first half of the financial year ended March 31, 2005 were achieved, a further bonus equal to 0.75% of annual salary was paid in November 2004. In the context of the Air France-KLM combination, a job protection plan was signed with the unions. Under the terms of this agreement, the proposed cooperation between KLM and Air France must not result in any lay-offs in the Netherlands for five years after the date of the combination, subject to the following conditions: • The employees concerned must do everything in their power to facilitate their reclassification to an appropriate position. The search for his position will first be within KLM in the Netherlands, but may also be at Air France. Within this framework, employees must be flexible, on the understanding that the type and status of the position and personal situations will be taken into consideration; • The employees concerned must undergo reclassification training or any additional training that may be necessary; • If necessary, KLM may use fixed-term and temporary contracts to meet any labor needs. The terms of this agreement may be amended only in the case of force majeure (outside events such as war, threat of war, epidemics and terrorist attacks) or if KLM’s productivity differs substantially from the average productivity achieved by the principal air carriers in Europe. Employee Incentive Plan KLM does not offer an incentive plan for its employees. 113 Table of Contents Item 7: MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Ownership of our Shares As of the date of this annual report, our share capital was €2,289,759,903 divided into 269,383,518 fully paid-up shares at a nominal value of €8.50 each. Each outstanding Air France-KLM share is entitled to one vote. The following table sets forth, to the best of our knowledge, certain information with respect to the beneficial ownership of Air France-KLM shares and voting rights as of May 31, 2005. Number ofshares Percentage ofshares Percentage ofvoting rights French State 50,015,397 18.6 % 19.0 % Current and former employees 43,875,215 16.3 % 16.7 % Public 169,051,188 62.7 % 64.3 % Treasury shares 6,441,718 2.4 % — Total 269,383,518 100.0 % 100.0 % As of May 31, 2005, KLM held 1,659,268 of our public shares. As of May 31, 2005, to the best of our knowledge, there are no other shareholders, other than those listed above, whose beneficial ownership represents 5% or more of our capital or voting rights. In addition, to the best of our knowledge, as of May 31, 2005, other than the following entities, no individual or group of shareholders held, directly or indirectly, individually or in the aggregate, 0.5% or more of our share capital or voting rights: the French State, the Barclays Group, the BNP Paribas Group, the Caisse Nationale des Caisses d’Epargne (CNCE), Alitalia, the Société Générale Group and CIP-Paribas. Shares Held in the United States To the best of our knowledge, as of March 31, 2005, residents in the United States held 18,376,622 of our ordinary shares, including 9,019,294 million ADSs, representing 6.8% of our share capital. Significant Changes In connection with the exchange offer for KLM common shares, Air France issued 45,938,857 new shares and 41,762,597 warrants at the end of the initial offering period on May 6, 2004 which lead to the effective privatization of Air France by reducing the stake held by the French State to 44.7%. At the end of the subsequent offering period on May 24, 2004, Air France issued an additional 3,663,772 new shares and 3,330,702 warrants. On December 9, 2004, the French State sold shares of Air France-KLM, reducing its shareholding to 23.2% of our share capital. Eligible employees were able to acquire Air France-KLM shares as part of the sale by the French State through two employee offerings conducted in the first quarter of 2005: an offering reserved to employees and a shares-for-salary exchange. See “Item 6: Employee Share Arrangements”. The subscription period was from February 1, 2005 through February 21, 2005 and employee shareholding increased by approximately 7.7% (3.2% through the offering reserved for employees and 4.5% through the shares-for-salary exchange). Following the delivery of shares pursuant to the employee share offering and the shares-for-salary exchange in March 2005 and April 2005 noted below, respectively, the French State’s shareholding in Air France-KLM was reduced to 18.6%. 114 Table of Contents The following table shows Air France’s share capital prior to and following the issuance of new Air France shares in connection with the exchange offer for KLM shares, and following the sale by the French State, the offering reserved for employees and the shares-for-salary exchange: As atMarch 31,2004 As atJune 30,2004 As atMay 31,2005 French State 54.0 % 44.1 % 18.7 % Current and former employees 12.8 % 10.0 % 17.7 % Public 32.1 % 43.9 % 60.8 % Treasury shares 1.1 % 2.0 % 2.0 % Total 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Related Party Transactions Relationship with the French State As a consequence of Air France issuing shares to the holders of KLM common shares in the exchange offer, the shareholding of the French State in Air France was automatically diluted to 43.7% beneficial ownership of Air France and 44.1% of the voting rights of Air France. The French State further reduced its shareholding in Air France-KLM in December 2004 and in the related employee offerings in March and April 2005. The following is a description of the statutory regime applicable to Air France and to Air France-KLM following the effective privatization of Air France on May 6, 2004. Following the privatization, the oversight of the Minister of Transportation over Air France’s air transport operations and the economic and financial oversight of the French State over Air France and its majority owned affiliates was repealed by the 2003 Air Carrier Law. The Law of July 26, 1983 relating to the democratization of the public sector no longer applies. Air France also ceased to be subject to the authority of the Court of Accounts (Cour des comptes) and to parliamentary review. Pursuant to Décret-Loi of October 30, 1935, as amended by Law no. 2001-420 of May 15, 2001, the French State is entitled to designate a number of candidates for the board of Air France-KLM in proportion to its shareholding in Air France-KLM (which may not be lower than two members), provided that it holds at least 10% of our share capital. Board members elected by the employees are not counted for the purpose of determining the proportion of the French State’s representation. The French State is currently entitled to designate three members to our board of directors. The 2003 Air Carrier Law does not permit the French State to hold a golden share in Air France-KLM since such a mechanism would be inconsistent with the June 4, 2002 rulings of the European Court of Justice. As a result, we are solely responsible for ensuring compliance with applicable rules relating to the maintenance of our operating license and the protection of our traffic rights, in accordance with the 2003 Air Carrier Law. In this context, the Air France articles of association were amended, effective as of the transfer of a majority of Air France’s share capital to the private sector, to ensure such compliance and protection. Relationship with KLM Air France is party to agreements with KLM related to the governance of Air France-KLM. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—History of Air France-KLM—The Combination with KLM and the Exchange Offer”. Air France is also party to agreements with KLM in relation to certain commercial issues including agreements relating to cargo capacity, engine, component and aircraft maintenance, code share frequent flyer program, lounge access and special pro-rate agreements. 115 Table of Contents Air France is party to a number of ordinary course commercial agreements with KLM relating to, among other things, ground engineering assistance and the exterior painting and weighing of aircraft. Such agreements are entered into by both Air France and KLM with airlines throughout the world in the ordinary course of their businesses. Each of these agreements was entered into on an arm’s-length basis in circumstances unrelated to the framework agreement or the exchange offer. None of such agreements is individually, nor are such agreements in the aggregate, material to Air France-KLM. Relationship with the Dutch State From 1929 to March 1986, the State of the Netherlands owned a majority of KLM’s outstanding share capital. In August 1998, the role of the State of the Netherlands as holder of KLM common shares ended with the conversion of its remaining 8,470,723 common shares into cumulative preference shares C, which were subsequently transferred to Stichting Luchtvaartbelangen Nederland, an independent foundation whose purpose is to promote Dutch aviation in general as well as to promote KLM as designated carrier in international aviation. Prior to the exchange offer, the State of the Netherlands continued to own a majority of KLM’s outstanding priority shares, which gave it rights of governance including the right to approve, among other things, the issuance of shares, the limitation or exclusion of pre-emptive rights, the payment of dividends in shares, the sale or transfer of priority shares, any changes to KLM’s articles of association and our dissolution. In connection with the interest held by the State of the Netherlands in KLM’s share capital, KLM and the State of the Netherlands have entered into an option agreement. Since 1994 the State of the Netherlands has had a right (the “Option”) to acquire sufficient €2.00 preference shares B to ensure that the Dutch State would be able to obtain an interest of up to 50.1% in KLM’s issued capital. The framework agreement amended the Option. The Option may now be exercised only in the event that any key country served by KLM restricts or terminates, or gives written notice that it will restrict or terminate, KLM’s operation of scheduled air services because of that country’s view that a substantial part of KLM’s share capital is not demonstrably Dutch-owned, or KLM is not effectively controlled by Dutch nationals. As amended, the Option has an initial duration of three years, but may be renewed by the State of the Netherlands up to three times for periods of 12 months each. The State of the Netherlands is entitled to renew the amended Option if it deems renewal necessary to avoid traffic rights operated and enjoyed by KLM in certain key countries from being restricted or terminated. On October 16, 2003, Air France, the State of the Netherlands and KLM entered into the Air France–Dutch State–KLM agreement in which they agreed the terms and conditions relating to renewal of the amended Option, procedures on notification and discussion regarding the exercise by the State of the Netherlands of the amended Option, the exercise of voting rights by the State of the Netherlands after the exercise of the amended Option and procedures on the redemption of the shares issued to the State of the Netherlands in the context of the State of the Netherlands exercising the amended Option. Relationship among Air France-KLM, Air France and KLM In connection with the hive down and the creation of Air France-KLM, the boards of directors of Air France-KLM and Air France decided at a meeting on September 15, 2004, for an interim period, to enter into one or more service agreements between Air France-KLM and Air France, pursuant to which Air France, which received all of the resources of société Air France in the hive down, renders services to Air France-KLM at its request in order to enable Air France-KLM to operate. The interim arrangements provide that key senior executives of Air France, such as the chief financial officer and the investor relations officer, serve in such capacities at Air France-KLM, and that staff seconded from Air France perform administrative services of Air France-KLM, such as in the functions of accounting, financial and treasury services, internal inspections and controls, legal and administrative services and office property services. Even though each of the services above, considered separately, could be viewed as an 116 Table of Contents agreement entered into in the normal course of business under normal terms and conditions, given the global scope of these services, the board of directors has authorized these service agreements. Other Relationships Various agencies of the French State are customers of Air France, but we do not view these agencies as a single customer and believe such business with such agencies is conducted under normal commercial terms. In addition, as part of its normal business, Air France enters into transactions, which we believe to be at arm’s length, with state-owned and governmental entities such as ADP, the French Ministry of Defense and the French Civil Aviation Authority (Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile, or DGAC). Air France has various arrangements with ADP, including, but not limited to, land and property rental arrangements and airport and passenger regulated fee arrangements. In addition, ADP collects landing airport taxes on behalf of the French State. Air France incurred total expenses in connection with these arrangements of €446.2 million, €414.9 million and €443.7 million, respectively, for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. Air France has also entered into arrangements with the French Ministry of Defense to maintain French military aircraft. Net revenues from these arrangements were €165.6 million, €204.0 million and €116.6 million for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. As the French civil aviation regulator, the DGAC charges Air France fees for the use of installations and services operated by the French State, including radio communications and meteorological services. Air France incurred total expenses in connection with these installations and services of €112.0 million, €88.3 million and €82.6 million for the financial years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 117 Table of Contents Item 8: FINANCIAL INFORMATION Financial Statements See “Item 18. Financial Statements” for a list of financial statements and other financial information filed with this annual report. Our financial year ends on March 31. Legal Proceedings See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business of Air France-KLM” and note 30.3 to the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Dividend Policy A dividend of €0.15 will be paid to stockholders in respect of the financial year ended March 31, 2005. The previously existing tax credit mechanism (avoir fiscal) was repealed for dividends paid as from January 1, 2005 and replaced with a limited tax credit that may be claimed under certain circumstances by taxpayers. See “Item 10: Additional Information—Taxation-French Tax Considerations—French Tax Consequences of Owning and Holding Air France-KLM Shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs—Taxation of Dividends—Tax Credit”. Dividends of €0.05 (€0.075 including the tax credit), €0.06 (€0.09 including the tax credit), €0.10 (€0.15 including the tax credit) and €0.22 (€0.33 including the tax credit) were paid to stockholders in respect of the financial years ended March 31, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Future payments of dividends, if any, will depend on our operating results and our investment policy at that time. Significant Change Except as otherwise disclosed in this annual report, there has been no material adverse change in our financial position since March 31, 2005. 118 Table of Contents Item 9: THE OFFER AND LISTING Market Information General The table below sets forth, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low sales prices per share for Air France-KLM shares on Euronext Paris and for Air France-KLM ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange: Euronext Parisprice per share(1) NYSE priceper ADS(2) High Low High Low (€) ($) Year ended March 31, 2001 27.01 15.31 — — March 31, 2002 22.58 8.70 — — March 31, 2003 20.77 7.09 — — March 31, 2004 17.77 8.17 — — March 31, 2005 15.33 11.28 19.81 14.26 Quarter ended June 30, 2003 12.59 8.17 — — September 30, 2003 15.44 11.10 — — December 31, 2003 14.17 12.04 — — March 31, 2004 17.77 12.18 — — June 30, 2004 15.33 12.21 17.80 14.80 September 30, 2004 14.24 11.28 17.23 14.26 December 31, 2004 15.00 12.52 19.81 15.42 March 31, 2005 15.14 13.36 19.44 17.44 Month ended December 31, 2004 15.00 13.86 19.81 18.42 January 31, 2005 14.27 13.36 19.20 17.44 February 28, 2005 15.14 13.98 19.44 18.27 March 31, 2005 14.66 13.53 19.41 17.84 April 30, 2005 14.02 11.98 17.90 15.62 May 31, 2005 13.39 12.00 16.62 15.63 June 30, 2005(3) 13.34 12.13 16.28 14.92 Notes: (1) Air France shares were first listed on Euronext Paris on February 22, 1999. (2) American Depositary Receipts representing Air France ADSs were first listed on the New York Stock Exchange on May 5, 2004. (3) On July 19, 2005, the closing price of Air France-KLM shares on Euronext Paris was €13.53 and the closing price of Air France-KLM ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange was $16.39. 119 Table of Contents Markets Our shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam and Euronext Paris. American Depositary Shares representing our shares and American Depositary Warrants representing our warrants are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 120 Table of Contents Item 10: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION General Air France-KLM is a société anonyme, a form of limited liability company, organized and existing under French law, registered under the number 552 043 002 RCS Bobigny and subject to the provisions of the French Civil Aviation Code (Code de l’aviation civile) and to French corporate law to the extent it does not conflict with the French Civil Aviation Code. Our financial year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31 of each calendar year. The following paragraphs describe certain provisions of Air France-KLM’s articles of association as adopted on September 15, 2004 and applicable French law. Such information and descriptions do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the articles of association of Air France-KLM. Air France-KLM’s Objects and Purposes Our objects are: • The acquisition of direct or indirect shareholdings in the capital of airline companies or of companies holding a majority of the share capital and voting rights of a company with an air transport operating license issued pursuant to Article L. 330-1 of the French civil aviation code. • The acquisition of direct or indirect shareholdings and any interest in any French or foreign companies whose activities are related to the air transportation business or in any other business tending to further its development, whether directly or indirectly, either alone or in the context of an association, cooperation, grouping or venture with any other persons or companies, and the carrying out, in any manner whatsoever, of the operations pertaining to its corporate purpose. • The management of shares and securities, investment for its won account or for the account of third parties, by any means whatsoever, including by way of acquisition, capital increase, absorption or merger. • The management of its own moveable and immoveable property, or of any property, regardless of the composition thereof, belonging to any individual or legal entity. Generally, we may also engage in any and all such financial, commercial and industrial transactions concerning personal and real property as may be related directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, to the above purpose or to any other similar or related purposes likely to further our expansion or development. Attendance and Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings General Under French law, there are two types of general shareholders’ meetings: ordinary and extraordinary. Ordinary general shareholders’ meetings are called to deal with matters such as the election, replacement and removal of the members of the board of directors, the appointment of statutory and independent auditors, the approval of annual financial statements, the declaration of cash dividends or the authorization to have such dividends paid in shares and the issuance of debt securities. Extraordinary general shareholders’ meetings must be called to seek approval on matters such as the amendment of our articles of association, a change in our name or corporate purpose, increases or decreases in share capital (including waiver of the shareholders’ preferential subscription rights), an extension of our statutory term, mergers and significant divestitures, the creation of a new class of shares, the authorization of the issuance 121 Table of Contents of investment certificates, securities exchangeable or convertible into equity securities, the transformation of Air France-KLM into another corporate form, and the voluntary liquidation of Air France-KLM before the end of its statutory term. Our general shareholders’ meetings are held at our registered office or at any other location specified in the notice of meeting. The chairman of the board of directors (or, in the chairman’s absence, a director appointed by the chairman specifically for this purpose) chairs the general meetings. If the board of directors fails to convene any shareholders’ meeting, our statutory auditors or a court-appointed agent may call the meeting. The court may be requested to appoint such agent by (i) one or several shareholders holding, in the aggregate, at least 5% of our share capital, (ii) any interested party or the works council in an emergency or (iii) a duly qualified association of shareholders holding their shares in registered form for at least two years and holding, in the aggregate, at least 1% of our voting rights. The notice calling a general meeting must state the agenda for the meeting and, with the exception of the removal and replacement of directors (which may be discussed at any meeting), no action may be taken at any meeting which was not included on the agenda for such meeting. Annual Meetings The board of directors is required to hold an annual ordinary general shareholders’ meeting no later than six months following the end of our financial year (currently ending on March 31 of each year) for approval of the annual financial statements, unless such period is extended by an order of the President of the Tribunal de commerce. The board of directors may also convene an ordinary or extraordinary meeting upon proper notice at any time during the year. Notice of Shareholders’ Meetings French law requires that a preliminary notice of a general shareholders’ meeting (avis de réunion) be published in the Bulletin des Annonces Légales Obligatoires (BALO) at least 30 days before the date set for the meeting. The preliminary notice must first be sent to the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) with an indication of the date of its publication in the BALO. The AMF also recommends that such preliminary notice be published in a newspaper of national circulation in France. Such preliminary notice must include, among other things, the agenda of the meeting, the draft resolutions that are proposed for voting by the shareholders, and information regarding voting by mail. Within 10 days of such publication, one or more shareholders holding a specified percentage of shares determined on the basis of a formula relating to capitalization and representing currently, in the aggregate, 0.5% of our share capital, or a duly authorized association of shareholders holding their shares in registered form for at least two years and holding, in the aggregate, at least 1% of our voting rights or our works council may propose additional resolutions on which votes are to be taken at such meeting. At least 15 days before the date set for any general meeting on first call, and at least six days before any second call, a final notice (avis de convocation) must be sent by mail to all holders of registered shares who have held such shares for more than one month prior to the date of publication of the notice, and notice of the meeting must also be given by publication in the BALO and in a newspaper authorized to publish legal announcements in the local administrative department (département) in which we are registered, with prior notice to the AMF. Such notice must include, among other things, a description of the type, final agenda, place, date and time of the meeting. Attendance and Voting Rights Attendance and exercise of voting rights at both ordinary and extraordinary general shareholders’ meetings are subject to certain conditions. There is no requirement that a shareholder have a minimum number of shares in order to be able to attend, or be represented at, a general meeting or to vote by mail. Pursuant to our articles of association, in order to participate in any general meeting, a holder of registered shares must have such shares registered in his or her name in our register of shareholders or a shareholder account maintained by an accredited financial intermediary (intermédiaire financier habilité) at least five days prior to the meeting. Similarly, a holder of bearer shares must obtain from the accredited financial intermediary with whom such holder has deposited its 122 Table of Contents shares, a certificate (certificat d’immobilisation) indicating the number of bearer shares owned by such holder and stating that these shares are not transferable until the date of the meeting. Such certificate must be deposited at the place specified in the notice of the meeting at least five days before the meeting. Subject to the foregoing, all shareholders who have properly registered their shares have the right to participate in general meetings, either in person or by proxy, and to vote, either in person, by proxy or by mail, according to the number of shares they hold. Proxies may be granted by a shareholder to his or her spouse, to another shareholder or, if the shareholder is a company, to a legal representative (or by such representative to a proxy, who must present a specific power in his or her name) or to us by returning a blank proxy. In the latter case, the chairman of the shareholders’ meeting will exercise the voting rights attached to the shares concerned by the blank proxy in favor of all resolutions proposed and agreed by the board of directors and against all others. Proxy forms will be sent to any shareholder upon request. In order to be counted, proxies must be received at our registered office or at such other address indicated in the notice convening the meeting prior to the date of the relevant general meeting. With respect to voting by mail, we must send our shareholders upon request a form for such vote and the form must be received by us at least three days prior to the date of the relevant general meeting. Pursuant to French corporate law, shares held by entities controlled, directly or indirectly, by us are not entitled to voting rights and do not count for quorum or majority purposes. Quorum and Majority Under French law and our articles of association, the presence in person (or voting by mail, proxy, video conference or by any other means of telecommunication where the nature and conditions of use comply with regulatory provisions) of shareholders having not less than 25% (in the case of any ordinary general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting deciding upon any capital increase by incorporation of reserves, profits or share premium) or 33.33% (in the case of any other extraordinary general meeting) of the shares entitled to vote is necessary for a quorum. If no quorum is present at a meeting, the meeting is adjourned. There is no quorum requirement when an ordinary general meeting is reconvened, but only questions which were on the agenda of the adjourned meeting may be discussed and voted upon. When an extraordinary general meeting is reconvened, the presence in person or by proxy (including those voting at a distance) of shareholders having not less than 25% of the shares entitled to vote is required for a quorum (except when an increase in our share capital is proposed through incorporation of reserves, profits or share premium, in which case the quorum requirements are those applicable to ordinary general meetings). If such a quorum is not present, the reconvened meeting may be adjourned for a maximum of two months, but no deliberation may take place without such a quorum. At an ordinary general meeting (or an extraordinary general meeting to vote upon any capital increase by incorporation of reserves, profits or share premium), a simple majority of votes cast by the shareholders present or represented at such meeting is required to pass a resolution. At any other extraordinary general meeting, a two-thirds majority of votes cast is required to pass a resolution. A unanimous vote, however, is required to increase the liabilities of shareholders. Abstention from voting by those present or represented by proxy, or voting at a distance, is counted as a vote against the resolutions submitted to a vote. Financial Statements and Other Communications with Shareholders In connection with any shareholders’ meeting, we must provide a set of documents, including our annual report and a summary of the results of the five previous financial years, to any shareholder who so requests. French corporate law requires that a special report be provided to the ordinary shareholders’ meeting regarding stock options authorized or granted by us. Company Results The board of directors is required to maintain proper accounts of all transactions conducted by us and shall draw up annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, as well as half-year consolidated financial statements and shall provide certain financial information at the end of each financial quarter in compliance with the law, regulations and standards in force. 123 Table of Contents Dividend and Liquidation Rights Net profit in each financial year (after deduction for depreciation and reserves) as increased or reduced, as the case may be, by our profit or loss carried forward from prior years, less any contributions to legal reserves, constitutes the distributable profits (bénéfice distribuable) available for distribution to our shareholders as dividends, subject to requirements of French law and with Title VII and other applicable provisions of our articles of association. Legal Reserve Under French law, each société anonyme (our corporate form), is required to allocate 5% of its unconsolidated statutory net profits (after reduction for any losses carried forward from previous years) in each financial year to a legal reserve fund until the amount in such reserve fund is equal to 10% of the aggregate nominal value of the share capital. This restriction of payment of dividends also applies to each of our French subsidiaries on an unconsolidated basis. The legal reserve is distributable only upon our liquidation. As of the date hereof, we have not yet fully funded our legal reserve. Approval of Dividends After approving the accounts and formally noting the existence of a profit available for distribution, the general shareholders’ meeting may resolve to allocate such profit to one or more reserve funds, the assignment and use of controls to carry over this profit to future years, or to distribute it. Any surplus distributed shall be shared among the shareholders in proportion to their equity rights in Air France-KLM. General shareholders’ meetings are empowered to grant any shareholder, all or part of the dividend paid out, and for interim dividends, a choice between payment of such final or interim dividend in cash or in shares. No distribution may be made to shareholders if the shareholders’ equity would become, as a result of the distribution, less than the amount of the share capital increased by the reserves, the distribution of which is prohibited by law or our articles of association. The methods of payment of dividends are determined by the general shareholders’ meeting or by the board of directors, in the absence of a decision by the shareholders. According to our articles of association, the general shareholders’ meetings are empowered to give each shareholder the option of receiving all or part of its annual or interim dividend payments in either cash or shares. If we have earned a distributable profit since the end of the preceding financial year (as shown on an interim balance sheet certified by our statutory auditors), the board of directors has the authority, subject to French law and regulations, prior to the approval of the annual financial statements by the shareholders, to distribute interim dividends to the extent of the distributable profits for the period covered by the interim income statement. Distribution of Dividends Subject to the statement above regarding interim dividends, the payment of dividends is fixed at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders at which the annual accounts are approved, upon the recommendation of the board of directors. Under French law, dividends are distributed to shareholders pro rata to their respective holdings of shares. Dividends are payable to holders of shares outstanding on the actual dividend payment dates as determined at the shareholders’ meeting approving the distribution of dividends or, in the case of interim dividends, on the actual dividend payment date, as determined by the meeting of the board of directors approving the distribution of interim dividends. The actual dividend payment date is decided by the shareholders in an ordinary general meeting or by the board of directors in the absence of such decision by the shareholders. Annual dividend payments must be made within nine months of the end of our financial year, unless otherwise authorized by court order. Under French law, dividends not claimed within five years of the date of payment revert to the French State. Our board of directors may, at any time and for any reason, propose to an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders the early dissolution of Air France-KLM, and we may be placed in liquidation in compliance with the relevant provisions of the French Commercial Code. If we are liquidated, those of our assets remaining after 124 Table of Contents payment of our debts, liquidation expenses and all of our remaining obligations will be distributed first to repay in full the nominal value of the shares, and the surplus, if any, will be distributed among the shareholders in proportion to the nominal value of their shareholdings. Changes in Share Capital Article 7 of our articles of association provides that our share capital may be increased, reduced or redeemed subject to the conditions established by law. Our articles of association do not impose any additional conditions. Increases in Share Capital Increases in our share capital may be effected by either the issuance of additional securities that give access, immediately or in the future, to a portion of the share capital, the increase of the nominal value of existing shares or the issuance of investment certificates or a new class of shares. Additional shares, investment certificates or a new class of shares may be issued for cash or for assets contributed in kind, upon the conversion, exchange or redemption of debt securities convertible, redeemable or exchangeable into Air France-KLM shares previously issued by us, by capitalization of reserves, profits or issuance premiums upon the exercise of stock options, share warrants or other similar securities comprising the right to subscribe for or acquire equity securities, or, subject to certain conditions, in satisfaction of our indebtedness or any combination thereof. As any increase in share capital requires modification of our articles of association, our share capital may be increased only with the approval of the shareholders at an extraordinary general meeting, upon the recommendation of the board of directors. A capital increase through incorporation of reserves, profits or issuance premiums may be decided at an extraordinary general meeting by the shareholders, acting under the quorum and majority requirements of ordinary general meetings. See “—Attendance and Voting at Shareholders’ Meetings”. Share dividends may be distributed, as described under “—Dividend and Liquidation Rights”. French law permits different classes of shares to have different liquidation, voting and dividend rights. The shareholders may delegate the right to carry out any capital increase (other than by way of an in-kind contribution) to the board of directors, provided that this increase has been previously authorized by the shareholders. The board of directors may further sub-delegate this right to our general manager. Each time the shareholders decide on a capital increase or decide to delegate to the board of directors the right to carry out a capital increase, they must also determine whether or not to proceed with a capital increase reserved for our employees and our subsidiaries or whether to delegate to the board of directors the right to carry out such reserved capital increase. Paying-up of Shares Cash shares issued to increase our share capital must be paid-up, at the time of their subscription, in an amount at least equal to one quarter of their nominal value and in the full amount of their premium, if a premium is due. The difference will be called up, on one or more occasions, by a resolution of the board of directors, which will determine the amount to be called up and the venue and date of the payments to be made. Shareholders will be notified of the capital call one month before the date set for each payment by means of an announcement placed in a publication authorized to carry legal notices and with a circulation including the location of our registered office, or by individually addressed registered letter. Any delay in payment of the amounts due will automatically lead, without requirement of formal notice, to the accrual of interest at the statutory rate plus 2% per annum, calculated daily with effect from the due date, without prejudice to personal actions at law which we may bring against the defaulting shareholder and to the enforcement measures available by law. Any shares on which payment due has not been made at the time of their subscription may be considered null and void eight days following the dispatch of notice by registered letter, where such notice has not elicited a satisfactory response. 125 Table of Contents Decreases in Share Capital An extraordinary general shareholders’ meeting is also empowered to authorize and implement a decrease in share capital, which may be effected either by decreasing the nominal value of the existing shares or by reducing the number of outstanding shares. The number of outstanding shares may be reduced either by an exchange of shares or by the repurchase and cancellation by us of our own shares. In accordance with French company law, all holders of shares in each class of shares must be treated equally with respect to a share capital reduction, unless the consent of the affected shareholders is obtained. If the reduction is not attributable to losses incurred by us or part of a program to purchase our own shares, each shareholder will be offered the opportunity to participate in such capital reduction, unless each affected shareholder agrees otherwise. Preemptive Subscription Rights Under French law, holders of shares have preferential, pro rata subscription rights when we issue, for cash, additional shares or other securities (i) that can be exchanged, converted or redeemed for shares or (ii) to which there are warrants attached to subscribe for or acquire new shares. Any shareholder may waive its preferential rights in respect of any particular offering. A two-thirds majority of the shares entitled to vote at an extraordinary general meeting may also decide to waive the preferential rights of all shareholders with respect to any particular offering. Preferential subscription rights, if not previously waived, are transferable during the subscription period relating to a particular offering and may be quoted on Euronext Paris. In the event that the preferential rights of shareholders are withdrawn, the shareholders’ meeting has the power to grant, or to authorize the board of directors to grant, existing shareholders a non-transferable priority right to subscribe for or acquire new shares issued during a limited period. Trading by Air France-KLM in its Own Shares Under French law, we may not subscribe for our own shares, but may, either directly or through a financial intermediary acting on its behalf, purchase our own shares (i) to reduce our share capital by canceling such acquired shares under certain circumstances, with shareholder approval at an extraordinary general meeting, (ii) to obtain shares for distribution to employees under a profit-sharing plan or stock option plan and (iii) subject to the filing of a note d’information that has received the visa of the AMF and after obtaining approval from the shareholders at an ordinary general meeting, to acquire up to 10% of our share capital in connection with a corporate share repurchase program for a maximum period of 18 months. In the latter case, we may decide (i) to keep the shares acquired, (ii) to sell or transfer them (including to employees under a profit-sharing plan or stock option plan) or (iii) with the approval of the shareholders at an extraordinary meeting, to cancel them, subject to a maximum amount of canceled shares equal to 10% of the outstanding share capital over any 24-month period. In addition, all repurchases are subject to certain limitations, including as to timing, price and quantity, so as not to disrupt the normal trading of the shares. Under French law, a company may not, directly or through an intermediary acting on his behalf, own more than 10% of its total capital or more than 10% of any class of its outstanding share capital. The shares repurchased by us must be held in registered form and be fully paid up. Such shares are deemed to be outstanding under French law, but are not entitled to dividends (these are carried forward to the next financial year as distributable profits) or voting rights and we may not itself exercise preferential subscription rights attached to them. The shareholders, at an extraordinary general meeting, may decide not to take such shares into account in determining the preferential subscription rights attached to the other shares; in the absence of such a decision, the rights attached to shares held by us must be either sold on Euronext Paris before the end of the subscription period or distributed to the other shareholders on a pro rata basis. A direct subsidiary of a company is generally prohibited by French law from holding shares and, in the event it becomes a holder of shares, such subsidiary must transfer the shares within one year following the date on which it becomes the holder thereof. An indirect subsidiary of a company may only acquire shares if such subsidiary demonstrates a business purpose for holding the shares, but in no event will it be entitled to vote such shares. 126 Table of Contents Form and Holding of Shares Form of Shares Until they are fully paid up, all shares will be registered in the name of the holder. Our articles of association provide that fully paid-up shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the option of the shareholder, subject to certain provisions. Where the threshold of 2% of the voting rights or share capital is reached, shares must be registered in the names of the holders. Pursuant to the 2003 Air Carrier law and the Decree of June 27, 2003, Air France’s articles of association were amended at a general meeting of the shareholders of Air France on July 10, 2003 to allow for measures to protect the nationality of Air France, as required under rules governing the granting of aircraft operating licenses and traffic rights. The corresponding amendments became effective as of the privatization of Air France on May 6, 2004. Pursuant to these amendments, the shares must be held in registered form in the following situations: • Holding 2% or more of Air France-KLM’s shares or voting rights. A shareholder, acting alone or in concert with others, who holds 2% or more of our shares or voting rights, must request from its financial intermediary (within five trading days of crossing the 2% threshold) that its shares be recorded in registered form, and provide us (within 15 calendar days) with a copy of such request. This request must contain the concerned shareholder’s name and address, the number and purchase date of the shares held or, if it is a legal entity, its legal name, registered office and the identity and nationality of its controlling persons. Non-French individuals or legal entities must also disclose the identity of any accredited financial intermediary that holds their shares on their behalf. • Holding more than 10,000 shares Our board of directors may at any time decide to lower the above threshold from a holding of 2% of the shares to a holding of 10,000 shares. Further, the board of directors is compelled to lower the 2% threshold to a threshold of 10,000 shares in the event 40% or more of our share capital or voting rights are held by non-French persons (as defined below). The board will publish any such decision in the BALO and in at least one French language and one English language financial newspaper. • Shares exclusively held in registered form Our board of directors may also, at any time, upon reviewing available information, resolve that all shares be recorded exclusively in registered form. The board must make this determination if 45% or more of our share capital or voting rights are held, directly or indirectly, by non-French persons (as defined below). The board’s decision to impose a requirement that our shares be in registered form (or any subsequent decision to the contrary) must be published in the same manner as described in the preceding paragraph. Holders of bearer shares must require that their shares be recorded in registered form within 15 days of the board’s decision. For the purposes of the articles of association, French persons are defined as individuals having French nationality, or legal persons or other entities or groups that are majority held or effectively controlled by French individuals or interests. We may use the procedure of titres au porteur identifiables (TPI) to obtain, at its own expense from Euroclear France, information regarding each of its shareholders, including their name, nationality, address and the number of shares held in bearer form. If, upon reviewing the requested information, we believe that our shares are held for the account of other persons, we may request similar information regarding these other persons either from Euroclear France or directly from each concerned financial intermediary. No information may be requested by or communicated to third parties under the TPI procedure. 127 Table of Contents Holding of Shares In accordance with French law concerning the “dematerialization” of securities, the ownership rights of holders of shares are represented by book entries instead of share certificates. Registered shares are entered into an account maintained by us ourselves or by a representative nominated by us, while shares in bearer form must be held in an account maintained by an accredited financial intermediary on the shareholder’s behalf. We maintain a share account with Euroclear France in respect of all shares held in registered form. This account is administered by Société Générale. We also maintain accounts in the name of each shareholder either directly or, at the shareholder’s request, through such shareholder’s accredited intermediary in separate accounts. Each account shows the name of the shareholder, the number of shares held, and the fact that such shares are registered through an accredited financial intermediary, if such is the case. Société Générale issues a confirmation to each person in whose name the shares are registered, in relation to their respective account. These confirmations do not constitute documents of title. Shares held in bearer form are held and registered on the shareholder’s behalf in an account maintained by an accredited financial intermediary and credited to an account maintained by such intermediary with Euroclear France. Each accredited financial intermediary maintains a record of shares held through it and will issue certificates in respect thereof. Transfers of shares held in bearer form may only be effected through accredited financial intermediaries and Euroclear France. As noted above, our articles of association allow us to request from Euroclear France, at any time, details concerning the identity of holders of shares in bearer form. Non-French Residents Pursuant to our articles of association, any shareholder (i) that does not have its domicile or registered office (as defined in article 102 of the French Civil Code) in France and (ii) that is required to have its shares recorded in registered form under the procedure referred to above, must register a domicile (faire élection de domicile) with an accredited financial intermediary in France and must inform us without delay by registered or certified mail with return receipt requested. If a shareholder fails to do so satisfactorily, the concerned shares will be deprived of voting rights in any general shareholders’ meeting, and the payment of the corresponding dividends will be deferred until these requirements are fully complied with. Transfer of Shares Registered shares must be converted into bearer form before being traded on Euronext Paris and, accordingly, must be credited to an account maintained by an accredited financial intermediary. Dealings in shares are initiated by the owner, who gives instructions (through an agent, if appropriate) to the relevant accredited financial intermediary. For dealings on Euronext Paris, a tax assessed on the price at which the securities were traded (impôt sur les opérations de bourse) is payable, at a rate of 0.3% on transactions up to €153,000 and at a rate of 0.15% thereafter, subject to a rebate of €23 per transaction and a maximum assessment of €610 per transaction. Transactions between non-French residents are not subject to the payment of such tax. In addition, a fee or commission is payable to the French broker, accredited financial intermediary or other agent involved in the transaction (whether within or outside France). For transactions completed prior to and including December 31, 2005, a 1% registration duty (subject to a maximum duty of €3,049 per transfer) applies to certain transfers of shares in French companies. This duty will increase to 1.1% (subject to a maximum duty of €4,000 per transfer) for transactions completed after January 1, 2006. The duty does not apply to transfers of shares in listed companies that are not evidenced by a written agreement, or if any such agreement is executed outside France. Pursuant to our articles of association, any transfer of shares may be subject to the prior approval of our board of directors if: • upon reviewing available information, the board of directors determines that more than 45% of our share capital or voting rights are held, directly or indirectly, by non-French nationals, and 128 Table of Contents • the proposed transfer would prompt the acquirer’s obligation to file a statement in respect of the 0.5% threshold referred to below (or any multiple thereof). Compulsory Transfer of Shares Pursuant to our articles of association, we are authorized to require that certain shareholders transfer all or part of their shares if 45% or more of our share capital or voting rights is held, directly or indirectly, by non-French nationals. French nationals, for purposes of our articles of association, are individuals with French nationality and legal entities or other entities and groups whose equity is not majority-held by, or effectively controlled by, non-French individuals or interests. The compulsory transfer procedure is intended to safeguard our rights to operate passenger air travel services on international routes, which depend, in many instances, on it being substantially- or majority-owned and effectively controlled by French nationals or, in some cases, nationals of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport). See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Regulation of Air France-KLM—The International Regulatory Framework—The Chicago Convention” and “Item 4: Information on the Company—Regulation of Air France-KLM—European Regulation—Liberalization”. We will publish an announcement in the Bulletin des Annonces Légales Obligatoires (BALO) and a press release in the form of a financial notice in a newspaper of national circulation in France and in an English-language financial publication when the percentage of share capital or voting rights held, directly or indirectly, by shareholders other than French nationals reaches 45% or falls below this level. Under this compulsory transfer procedure, we will issue a formal request (mise en demeure) as a matter of priority to shareholders who are not nationals of a E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport) requiring them to transfer all or a portion of their shares. The formal request will apply to shares based on the order they were registered in our share register, beginning with the most recently registered shares. Following the issuance of a formal request to nationals other than nationals of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or nationals of other states party to any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), if our share capital or voting rights remain at least 45% held, directly or indirectly, by non-French nationals, we may issue a formal request to its shareholders who are nationals of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EAA. This formal request will also apply to shares based on the order they were registered, beginning with the most recently registered shares. In the event that more than one shareholder holds shares registered at the same date in our records exceeding the balance of the shares to which the same formal demand procedure applies, the balance will be split between those shareholders in proportion to the shares concerned. The formal request for compulsory transfer of stock may be implemented in one or more phases for so long as, in the light of the information available to us and the transfers already effected, the portion of the share capital or voting rights held, directly or indirectly, by shareholders other than French nationals continues to equal at least 45%. A formal request will be deemed to have been duly issued when it is in the form of a letter sent registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any equivalent means, to the holder appearing in our register, including cases where the shares are registered in the name of an intermediary on behalf of the owner of the shares, and to the address appearing in this register or, where applicable, to the address where domicile has been elected. The formal request will indicate the number of shares that the shareholder is required to transfer within two months from the date of the formal request. Shareholders receiving a formal request must inform us without delay of the execution of the transfers required of them. 129 Table of Contents If at the end of the two-month period following our formal request the concerned shareholder has taken no action, our chairman may seek a writ of summons appointing a financial institution to sell the concerned shares on Euronext Paris. From the date of this appointment, the concerned shares will be deprived of voting rights and will only be authorized for sale under the procedure laid out in the 2003 Air Carrier Law and our articles of association. At the end of an additional two-month period, any unsold shares may be repurchased by us or, if we fail to do so, will regain their voting rights. The net proceeds of any sale of the concerned shares under this procedure will be paid to the holder whose shares are subject to the compulsory transfer procedure. For a description of the restriction applicable to holders of ADSs, see “—American Depositary Shares—Limitations on the Right to Own, Transfer or Vote Air France-KLM ADSs; Compulsory Transfer of Air France-KLM Shares”. We intend to treat all of the shares underlying ADSs as shares held by nationals other than nationals of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), unless it has received satisfactory evidence as to why they should not be so treated. Requirements Applicable to Shareholdings Exceeding Certain Percentages Pursuant to Article L.233-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others, that becomes the owner directly or indirectly, of more than 5%, 10%, 20%, 33.3%, 50% or 66.6% of the outstanding shares or voting rights of Air France-KLM must notify us within five trading days of crossing any such threshold of the number of shares and warrants it holds or is entitled to hold and of the number of voting rights attached thereto. Such individual or entity must also notify the AMF within five trading days. The AMF makes such report available to the public. In addition, if such thresholds are reached due to a reduction in the holding, notification according to the conditions above must be given to us and the AMF, respectively. In addition to the provisions of the French Commercial Code, our articles of association provide that any individual or legal entity, acting alone or in concert with others, which holds directly or indirectly at least 0.5% of the share capital or voting rights of Air France-KLM or a multiple thereof up to a maximum of 50%, must notify us within 15 calendar days by certified mail with return receipt. Additionally, if such a threshold is reached due to a reduction in the holding, notification according to the conditions above must be given to us. Failure to adhere to these notification requirements will lead to disqualification of the stock for voting under Article L.223-14 of the French Commercial Code at the request of one or more shareholders holding together at least 0.5% of our share capital. In addition, any person acquiring more than 10% or 20% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must file a report within 10 trading days with us and the AMF, which makes such report available to the public by means of a notice. This report must state whether the acquirer is acting alone or in concert with others and indicate its intention for the following 12-month period, including whether or not it intends to continue its purchases, to acquire the control of us or to seek nomination (for itself or for others) to our board of directors. The acquirer must also publish a press release stating its intentions in a financial newspaper nationally circulated in France. The acquirer may modify its initial intentions in a new statement, provided that this is done on the basis of significant changes in its own situation or those of its shareholders. Upon any change in intention, it must file a new report. These requirements also apply to accredited intermediaries that hold shares on behalf of shareholders who are non-French persons. Under the regulations of the AMF, and subject to limited exemptions, any person, or persons acting in concert, who comes to own more than 33.3% of our share capital or voting rights must initiate a public tender offer for the remainder of our share capital. In order to permit holders of shares or intermediaries to give notice as required by law, we are obligated to publish in the BALO, no later than 15 calendar days after our annual ordinary general meeting of shareholders, 130 Table of Contents information with respect to the total number of votes outstanding as of the date of such meeting. In addition, if we are aware of a change of at least 5% in the number of available votes in the period between two annual ordinary general meetings, it is required to publish in the BALO, within 15 calendar days of such change, the number of votes then available and provide the AMF with written notice thereof. If any shareholder fails to comply with the above-mentioned notification requirements, the shares in excess of the relevant threshold will be automatically deprived of voting rights until the end of a two-year period following the date of compliance by the owner with the notification requirements. Furthermore, any shareholder who fails to comply with the above-mentioned requirements may have all or part of its voting rights (and not only those attached to the shares in excess of the relevant threshold) suspended for up to five years by court order at the request of our chairman or any shareholder or the AMF, and, in some cases, may be subject to criminal penalties. Ownership of Shares by Non-French Residents Under French law, there is no specific limitation on the right of non-French residents or non-French companies to own or, where applicable, vote securities of a French company. A non-resident of France, a non-French company or any group of non-French residents or non-French companies acting in concert or any foreign controlled resident must file a déclaration administrative, or administrative notice, with French authorities if such acquisition would result in (i) the acquisition of more than 33.33% of our share capital or voting rights or (ii) the increase above 33.33% of our share capital or of the voting rights, unless such non-French resident, group of non-French residents or non-French company or group of non-French companies already controls more than half of our share capital or voting rights prior to such increase. Under existing administrative rulings, ownership by a French corporation, in which 33.33% or more of the share capital or voting rights is held by a foreign national, of 33.33% or more of a French company’s share capital or voting rights gives rise to an obligation to file a déclaration administrative with the French authorities. However, because of the regulatory regime applicable to airline carriers, shareholders who are not French citizens could, under certain circumstances, be required to sell all or a portion of their shares if 45% or more of our share capital or voting rights is held, directly or indirectly, by non-French persons. See “—Compulsory Transfer of Shares”. In accordance with its articles of association, we will inform shareholders and the general public, through an announcement published in the BALO and a press release in the form of a financial notice published in a journal with national coverage in France and in an English-language financial publication, when 45% of the share capital or voting rights is held, directly or indirectly, by shareholders other than French nationals, and when the share in the equity or voting rights held by such shareholders falls below this level. The term French national(s) refers to private individuals and legal entities or other entities and groups whose equity is not held in the majority or effectively controlled by foreign private individuals or interests. The notice must specify the share of equity or voting rights thus held, directly or indirectly, by shareholders other than French nationals and will indicate whether we are envisaging the use of the formal demand procedure provided for in Article L.360-2 of the Code of Civil Aviation. See “—Compulsory Transfer of Shares”. Warrants Exercise Price and Rights Attached to Air France-KLM Warrants Three Air France-KLM warrants entitle their holder to subscribe for or acquire, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events described below, two new or existing Air France-KLM shares at an exercise price of €20 per Air France-KLM share. Holders of Air France-KLM warrants may elect to receive delivery of Air France-KLM shares or Air France-KLM share represented by ADSs upon exercise of Air France-KLM warrants. 131 Table of Contents Exercise Period and Expiration of Air France-KLM Warrants The Air France-KLM warrants have a maturity of three and a half years from May 6, 2004 and can be exercised starting November 6, 2005, subject to the restrictions on exercisability set forth below under “—Restrictions on Exercisability”. Air France-KLM warrants not exercised during the exercise period will become automatically void at the end of the exercise period. Restrictions on Exercisability We are entitled to suspend the right to exercise Air France-KLM warrants for a period not exceeding three months, in the event of: • an increase in our share capital, • the issuance of securities convertible or exchangeable into, or otherwise giving access to, our equity capital, or • a merger (fusion) or split (scission) or any other financial operations that include a preferential subscription right or reserve a priority subscription period for the benefit of our existing shareholders. In such event, notice of the suspension will be published in: • the BALO, • a financial newspaper having general circulation in France, • a Dutch national newspaper, • the Daily Official List of Euronext Amsterdam, • the Wall Street Journal, • the Financial Times, and • a Euronext notice. The notice of suspension will be published not less than 15 days prior to the commencement of the suspension and will mention both the date on which the suspension comes into force and the date on which the suspension will end. Exercise Procedure Subject to adjustment as described below, Air France-KLM warrants may be exercised by deposit of an exercise notice with the authorized financial intermediary together with payment of the exercise price. Warrants will only be accepted for exercise in multiples of three. There can be no assurance that Air France-KLM shares delivered upon the exercise of Air France-KLM warrants will be transferred to the person exercising such Air France-KLM warrants within three business days of exercise. Upon exercise of an Air France-KLM warrant, we may deliver, at our option, newly issued Air France-KLM shares, existing Air France-KLM shares or a combination of newly issued and existing Air France-KLM shares. The Air France-KLM shares issued upon the exercise of Air France-KLM warrants will be either in bearer book entry form or registered form, at the option of the holder of the warrant. 132 Table of Contents We will periodically make application to list newly issued shares delivered upon exercise of Air France-KLM warrants on Euronext Paris and Euronext Amsterdam. Air France-KLM shares issued upon the exercise of Air France-KLM warrants will be listed on Euronext Paris and Euronext Amsterdam on the same line as the existing shares if they carry full dividend rights from the same date as existing shares. If not, the shares issued upon the exercise of the Air France-KLM warrants will initially be listed on a separate line. See “—Dividends—Entitlements to Dividends on Exercise”. The existing Air France-KLM shares delivered upon exercise of the Air France-KLM warrants will be immediately tradable. Fractions Arising on Exercise If, as a result of an adjustment to entitlement as discussed above, the entitlement of a holder of warrants to Air France-KLM shares on exercise includes a fraction of an Air France-KLM share, the fraction will not be issued but the holder will be entitled, at his option, to receive in respect of the fraction either: • payment by us of an amount in euro equal to the appropriate fraction of the market price for one share based on the opening share price (premier cours coté) on Euronext Paris on the trading day immediately preceding the date on which the Air France-KLM warrant was exercised, or on the last stock exchange trading day preceding the date of exercise of the Air France-KLM warrant during which the Air France-KLM share price was quoted; or • one additional Air France-KLM share, subject to the holder having paid to us an amount in euro equal to the market price for one Air France-KLM share as described in the preceding bullet point, less the value of the fraction of the share determined in accordance with the preceding bullet point. Entitlements to Dividends on Exercise The new Air France-KLM shares delivered upon exercise of Air France-KLM warrants will be subject to all provisions of our articles of association and will carry full rights as of the first day of the financial year in which exercise takes place. Such shares will give holders the right in respect of that financial year and the following financial years to the same dividend (on the basis of the same nominal value) as that paid in respect of other shares with equivalent dividend rights. As a result, they will be fully fungible with such shares from the date of payment of the dividend relating to the preceding financial year, or if none were distributed, following the annual general meeting called to approve the accounts of that financial year. Existing Air France-KLM shares subscribed for or acquired through the exercise of the Air France-KLM warrants shall be existing ordinary shares carrying for their holders, from the date of delivery, all the rights attached thereto, and it is understood that, in the event that a detachment of dividend right occurs between the exercise date of an Air France-KLM warrant and the delivery date of the Air France-KLM shares, the holders of Air France-KLM warrants shall not be entitled to such dividend nor to any compensation thereof. Protection of Warrantholders’ Rights: Adjustments In the event that, at any time or from time to time while any Air France-KLM warrants are outstanding, we: • issue securities providing preferential subscription rights, • (a) increase our corporate capital by the incorporation of reserves, profits or share premia and a free distribution of shares, (b) subdivide or consolidate Air France-KLM shares, • capitalize reserves, earnings or share premia by an increase of the nominal value of the Air France-KLM shares, 133 Table of Contents • distribute reserves or premia in cash or in portfolio securities, • carry out a merger, takeover or demerger, • repurchase our own shares at a price higher than the market price, • distribute to shareholders any bonus financial instruments other than shares in Air France-KLM, or • distribute an exceptional dividend, then the number of Air France-KLM shares to be issued or delivered upon the exercise of an Air France-KLM warrant will be adjusted so as to entitle its holder to subscribe for or acquire the number of Air France-KLM shares having the same aggregate value immediately following such event as the number of Air France-KLM shares that could have been subscribed or purchased upon exercise of the warrant immediately prior to such event. In the event that we carry out transactions in respect of which an adjustment under one of the bullet points above has not been carried out and where later French law or regulations would require an adjustment, we will carry out such an adjustment in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations and relevant French market practices in effect in France at such time. In the event of: • a merger between Air France-KLM and another company as a result of which the other company is the surviving entity (absorption), • a merger of Air France-KLM with one or more other companies to form a new company (fusion), or • a demerger of Air France-KLM into one or more companies (scission), the Air France-KLM warrants will give the right, upon exercise, to subscribe for or acquire shares of the surviving or new companies or beneficiary companies of a demerger. In that instance, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the Air France-KLM warrants will be determined on the basis of the number of Air France-KLM shares that would have been issued upon the exercise of Air France-KLM warrants prior to such event and the ratio of exchange of the shares of Air France-KLM with respect to shares of the surviving or new company or beneficiary companies of the demerger, as the case may be. Form and Transfer of Air France-KLM Warrants Air France-KLM warrants will be delivered only in bearer form and will be held on behalf of their holders by an authorized financial intermediary selected by each holder. In accordance with the provisions of Article L.211-4 of the French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et financier), the rights of a holder of warrants will be evidenced by an inscription in his or her name in an account maintained by an authorized financial intermediary (inscription en compte). Each authorized financial intermediary will maintain a record of Air France-KLM warrants held through it and will issue confirmations in respect of such warrants. A holder of warrants will be able to transfer Air France-KLM warrants by giving instructions to his authorized financial intermediary. The Air France-KLM shares (including Air France-KLM shares represented by Air France-KLM ADSs) and the Air France-KLM warrants (including Air France-KLM warrants represented by Air France-KLM ADWs) are separately transferable. Under certain circumstances, we may request the identification of a holder of Air France-KLM warrants. See “—Capital Structure of Air France-KLM—Share Capital”. 134 Table of Contents Notices to Warrantholders In the event that we issue securities with preferential subscription rights or a priority subscription period, we will provide notice of that transaction to the holders of Air France-KLM warrants prior to the commencement of such issue by publication in the BALO, a financial newspaper having general circulation in France, a Dutch national newspaper, the Daily Official List of Euronext Amsterdam, the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times and by means of a Euronext notice. Where any operation results in an adjustment to the rights of holders of Air France-KLM warrants, the holders will be notified of such event by a notice published in the BALO, a financial newspaper having general circulation in France, a Dutch national newspaper, the Daily Official List of Euronext Amsterdam, the Wall Street Journal, the Financial Times and by means of a Euronext notice. Undertakings of Air France-KLM We will undertake that, so long as any warrants remain outstanding, we will not: • redeem or reduce its capital by repayment (except in accordance with French law to take account of losses sustained), • modify the allocation of its profits or the distribution of its earnings, or • distribute reserves, unless in any such case we take whatever action as is necessary to protect the rights of the holders of Air France-KLM warrants. Listing of the Warrants The Air France-KLM warrants are listed on Euronext Paris under the symbol “AIRF.PA” and on Euronext Amsterdam under the symbol “AIRF.PA” and the ADWs are listed under the symbol “AKH WS” on the NYSE. Option to Repurchase the Warrants We reserve the right at any time to repurchase the warrants or ADWs representing the warrants, through stock market or off-market purchases or by public tender, buyback or exchange offers, to the extent permitted by applicable law. Such repurchases by us shall have no impact on the exercise period of the warrants that remain outstanding. Warrants acquired by us in this manner shall be cancelled. ADWs acquired by us in this manner shall be cancelled by the ADW depositary upon our request, and the underlying warrants shall be delivered to us or our designee for cancellation. Miscellaneous The Air France-KLM warrants do not confer upon the warrantholders any of the rights of the Air France-KLM shares, any voting or pre-emption rights, or any rights otherwise attributable to a shareholder of Air France-KLM. The only right conferred by the Air France-KLM warrants is the right to exercise such Air France-KLM warrants to subscribe or purchase Air France-KLM shares, subject to the restrictions described above and to adjustments to Warrantholders’ rights. See “—Restrictions on Exercisability” and “—Protection of Warrantholders’ Rights: Adjustments”. Persons required under French law to inform us and the AMF of the number of Air France-KLM shares held by them must also include in such reports the number of Air France-KLM shares which they would have the right to subscribe or acquire upon exercising any Air France-KLM warrants which they may hold. 135 Table of Contents Société Générale is warrant agent for the warrants in France, and ABN AMRO is the warrant agent for the warrants in the Netherlands. The Air France-KLM warrants are governed by French law. Taxation See “—Taxation” for information about the tax treatment of Air France-KLM warrants and Air France-KLM shares received upon exercise of Air France-KLM warrants. American Depositary Shares General Citibank, N.A. has agreed to act as the depositary bank for the American Depositary Shares of Air France-KLM. Citibank’s depositary bank offices are located at 111 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. American Depositary Shares are referred to as ADSs and represent ownership interests in securities that are on deposit with the depositary bank. ADSs may be represented by certificates that are commonly known as “American Depositary Receipts” or “ADRs”. The depositary bank typically appoints a custodian to safekeep the securities on deposit. In this case, the custodian is Citibank, N.A. – Paris, located at Citicenter, 19 Le Parvis, 92073 Paris La Défense, Cedex 36, France. Citibank has agreed to act as depositary bank for the ADSs pursuant to an ADS deposit agreement (the ADS deposit agreement). A copy of the ADS deposit agreement is on file with the SEC under cover of a Registration Statement on Form F-6. You may obtain a copy of such ADS deposit agreement from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) or from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. We are providing you with a summary description of the material terms of the ADSs and of the material rights of an owner of ADSs. Please remember that summaries by their nature lack the precision of the information summarized and that a holder’s rights and obligations as an owner of ADSs will be determined by reference to the terms of the ADS deposit agreement and not by this summary. We urge you to review the ADS deposit agreement in its entirety, as well as the form of ADR attached to the ADS deposit agreement. Each ADS represents the right to receive one Air France-KLM share on deposit with the custodian bank. An ADS also represents the right to receive any other property received by the depositary bank or the custodian on behalf of the owner of the ADS but that has not been distributed to the owners of ADSs because of legal restrictions or practical considerations. As an owner of ADSs, you are a party to the ADS deposit agreement and therefore are bound by its terms and, if your ADS is represented by a certificate, to the terms of the ADR that represents your ADSs. The ADS deposit agreement and the ADR specify our rights and obligations as well as your rights and obligations as owner of ADSs and those of the depositary bank. As an ADS holder you appoint the depositary bank to act on your behalf in certain circumstances. The ADS deposit agreement and the ADRs are governed by New York law. However, our obligations to the holders of Air France-KLM shares continue to be governed by the laws of France, which may be different from the laws of the United States. As an owner of ADSs, you may hold your ADSs either by means of an ADR registered in your name, through a third party brokerage or safekeeping account, or through an account held at the depositary bank reflecting the registration of your uncertificated ADSs directly on the books of the depositary bank (commonly referred to as the direct registration system). The direct registration system reflects the uncertificated (book-entry) registration of ownership of securities by the depositary bank. Under the direct registration system, ownership of ADSs is evidenced by periodic statements issued by the depositary bank to the holders of the 136 Table of Contents ADRs. The direct registration system includes automated transfers between the depositary bank and the Depositary Trust Company (DTC), the central book-entry clearing and settlement system in the United States. If you decide to hold your ADSs through a third party brokerage or safekeeping account, you must rely on the procedures of your broker or bank to assert your rights as ADS owner. Please consult with your broker or bank to determine what those procedures are. This summary description assumes you have opted to own the ADSs registered in your name and, as such, we will refer to you as the “holder”. When we refer to “you”, we assume the reader owns ADSs and will own ADSs at the relevant time. Dividends and Distributions As a holder of ADSs, you generally have the right to receive the distributions we make on the securities deposited with the custodian bank. Your receipt of these distributions may be limited, however, by practical considerations and legal limitations. Holders of ADSs receive such distributions under the terms of the ADS deposit agreement in proportion to the number of ADSs held as of a specified record date. Distributions of Cash Whenever we make a cash distribution for the securities on deposit with the custodian, we will notify the depositary bank and deposit the funds with the custodian. Upon receipt of confirmation of the deposit of the requisite funds, the depositary bank will arrange for the funds to be converted into U.S. dollars and for the distribution of the U.S. dollars to the holders, subject to French laws and regulations. The conversion into U.S. dollars will take place only if practicable. The amounts distributed to holders will be net of the fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. The depositary will apply the same method for distributing the proceeds of the sale of any property (such as undistributed rights) held by the custodian in respect of securities on deposit. Distributions of Shares Whenever we make a dividend in, or free distribution of, Air France-KLM shares for the securities on deposit with the custodian, we will notify the depositary bank and deposit the applicable number of Air France-KLM shares with the custodian. Upon receipt of such deposit, the depositary bank will either distribute to holders new ADSs representing the Air France-KLM shares deposited or modify the ADS-to-Air France-KLM share ratio, in which case each ADS you hold will represent rights and interests in the additional Air France-KLM shares so deposited. Only whole new ADSs will be distributed. Fractional entitlements will be sold and the proceeds of such sale will be distributed as in the case of a cash distribution. The distribution of new ADSs or the modification of the ADS-to-Air France-KLM shares ratio upon a distribution of Air France-KLM shares will be made net of the fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. In order to pay such taxes or governmental charges, the depositary bank may sell all or a portion of the new Air France-KLM shares so distributed. No such distribution of new ADSs will be made if it would violate a law, including the U.S. securities laws, or if it is not operationally practicable. If the depositary bank does not distribute new ADSs or modify the ADS-to-Air-France-KLM share ratio as described above, it may sell the Air France-KLM shares received upon the terms described in the ADS deposit agreement and will distribute the proceeds of the sale as in the case of a distribution of cash. Distributions of Rights Whenever we intend to distribute rights to purchase additional Air France-KLM shares, we will give prior notice to the depositary bank and we will assist the depositary bank in determining whether it is lawful and reasonably practicable to distribute rights to purchase additional ADSs to all or certain holders. 137 Table of Contents The depositary bank will establish procedures to distribute rights to purchase additional ADSs to holders and to enable such holders to exercise such rights to the extent it is lawful and reasonably practicable to make the rights available to all or certain holders of ADSs, and if we provide all of the documentation contemplated in the ADS deposit agreement (such as opinions to address the lawfulness of the transaction). You may have to pay fees, expenses, taxes and other governmental charges to subscribe for the new ADSs upon the exercise of your rights. The depositary bank is not obligated to establish procedures to facilitate the distribution and exercise by holders of rights to purchase new Air France-KLM shares other than in the form of ADSs. The depositary bank will not distribute the rights to you if: • we do not timely request that the rights be distributed to you or we request that the rights not be distributed to you, • we fail to deliver satisfactory documentation to the depositary bank, or • it has determined that it is not reasonably practicable to distribute the rights to you. If the depositary bank has distributed rights to purchase additional Air France-KLM shares to all or certain holders, then upon instruction from such holder to exercise such rights, upon payment by such holder to the depositary bank for the account of such holder of an amount equal to the purchase price of the Air France-KLM shares to be received upon the exercise of the rights, and upon payment of the fees and expenses of the depositary bank and any other charges as set forth in the terms and conditions of such rights, the depositary bank shall, on behalf of such holder, exercise the rights and purchase the Air France-KLM shares, and we shall cause the Air France-KLM shares so purchased to be delivered to the depositary bank’s custodian on behalf of such holder. As agent for such holder, the depositary bank will cause the Air France-KLM shares so purchased to be deposited pursuant to the ADS deposit agreement and shall execute and deliver ADSs to such holder. The depositary bank will sell the rights that are not exercised or not distributed if such sale is lawful and reasonably practicable. The proceeds of such sale will be distributed to holders as in the case of a cash distribution. If the depositary bank is unable to sell the rights, it will allow the rights to lapse. If registration under U.S. or other securities laws may be required to distribute the rights to you, the depositary bank will not make such distribution unless a registration statement is in effect or we have furnished the depositary bank with an opinion of counsel that the distribution of the rights is exempt from such registration. We have not undertaken to file any registration in respect of any distribution of rights. There can be no assurances that you will have the opportunity to exercise these rights on the same terms as the holders of our shares in France or at all. Elective Distributions Whenever we intend to distribute a dividend payable at the election of shareholders either in cash or in additional shares, we will give prior notice thereof to the depositary bank and will indicate whether we wish the elective distribution to be made available to you. In such case, we will assist the depositary bank in determining whether such distribution is lawful and reasonably practicable. The depositary bank will make the election available to you only if we have timely requested that the elective distribution be made available to shareholders, it is reasonably practicable to make such a distribution and if we have provided all of the documentation contemplated in the ADS deposit agreement. In such case, the depositary bank will establish procedures to enable you to elect to receive either cash or additional ADSs, in each case as described in the ADS deposit agreement. 138 Table of Contents If the election is not made available to you, you will receive either cash or additional ADSs, depending on what a shareholder in France would receive upon failing to make an election, as more fully described in the ADS deposit agreement. If the depositary bank does not receive timely instructions from you as to your election, the depositary bank shall make no election with respect to the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs and shall distribute such Air France-KLM shares or cash as it receives, if any, in respect of the Air France-KLM shares you hold in accordance with the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. The depositary bank is not obligated to make any process available to you to receive an elective distribution of our shares rather than ADSs. There can be no assurances that you will have the opportunity to receive elective distributions on the same terms as the holders of our shares in France or at all. Other Distributions Whenever we intend to distribute property other than cash, Air France-KLM shares or rights to purchase additional Air France-KLM shares, we will notify the depositary bank in advance and will indicate whether we wish such distribution to be made to you. If so, we will assist the depositary bank in determining whether such distribution to holders is lawful and reasonably practicable. If we shall have requested to the depositary bank to make such distribution to you, the depositary bank shall have determined that it is reasonably practicable to distribute such property to you, and if we provide all of the documentation contemplated in the ADS deposit agreement, the depositary bank will distribute the property to the holders in a manner it deems equitable and practicable. The distribution will be made net of fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. In order to pay such taxes and governmental charges, the depositary bank may sell all or a portion of the property received. The depositary bank will not distribute the property to you and will sell or cause to be sold the property (in public or private sale), and shall distribute the proceeds in accordance with the terms of the ADS deposit agreements if: • we do not request that the property be distributed to you or if we ask that the property not be distributed to you, • we do not deliver satisfactory documentation to the depositary bank, or • the depositary bank determines that all or a portion of the distribution to you is not reasonably practicable. The proceeds of such a sale will be distributed to holders as in the case of a cash distribution. Redemption Whenever we decide to redeem any of the securities on deposit with the custodian, we will notify the depositary bank in advance. If the depositary bank is timely notified, and it has determined that it is reasonably practicable and if we provide all of the documentation contemplated in the ADS deposit agreement, the depositary bank will mail notice of the redemption to the holders. The custodian will be instructed to surrender the Air France-KLM shares being redeemed against payment of the applicable redemption price. The depositary bank will convert the redemption funds received into U.S. dollars upon the terms of the ADS deposit agreement and will establish procedures to enable holders to receive the net proceeds from the redemption upon surrender of their ADSs to the depositary bank. You may have to pay 139 Table of Contents fees, expenses, taxes and other governmental charges upon the redemption of your ADSs. If less than all outstanding ADSs are being redeemed, the ADSs to be retired will be selected by lot or on a pro rata basis, as the depositary bank may determine. Changes Affecting Air France-KLM Shares The Air France-KLM shares held on deposit for your ADSs may change from time to time. For example, there may be a change in nominal or par value, a split-up, cancellation, consolidation or reclassification of such Air France-KLM shares or a recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation or sale of assets. If any such change were to occur, your ADSs would, to the extent permitted by law, represent the right to receive the property received or exchanged in respect of the Air France-KLM shares held on deposit. The depositary bank may in such circumstances deliver new ADSs to you or call for the exchange of your existing ADSs for new ADSs. If the depositary bank may not lawfully distribute such property to you, the depositary bank may sell such property and distribute the net proceeds to you as in the case of a cash distribution. Issuance of ADSs upon Deposit of Air France-KLM Shares The depositary bank may create ADSs on your behalf if you or your broker deposit Air France-KLM shares with the custodian. The depositary bank will deliver these ADSs to the person you indicate only after you pay any applicable issuance fees and any charges and taxes payable for the transfer of the Air France-KLM shares to the custodian. Your ability to deposit Air France-KLM shares and receive ADSs may be limited by U.S. and French legal considerations applicable at the time of deposit and the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. The issuance of ADSs may be delayed until the depositary bank or the custodian receives satisfactory confirmation that all required approvals have been given by the applicable governmental agency in the Republic of France and that the corresponding number of Air France-KLM shares have been duly transferred to the custodian. The depositary bank will only issue ADSs in whole numbers. When you make a deposit of Air France-KLM shares, you will be responsible for transferring good and valid title to the depositary bank. As such, you will be deemed to represent and warrant that: • the Air France-KLM shares are duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, non-assessable and legally obtained, • all preemptive (and similar) rights, if any, with respect to such Air France-KLM shares have been validly waived or exercised, • you are duly authorized to deposit the Air France-KLM shares, • the Air France-KLM shares presented for deposit are free and clear of any lien, encumbrance, security interest, charge, mortgage or adverse claim, and are not, and the ADSs issuable upon such deposit will not be, “restricted securities” (as defined in the ADS deposit agreement), and • the Air France-KLM shares presented for deposit have not been stripped of any rights or entitlements. If any of the representations or warranties are incorrect in any way, we and the depositary bank may, at your cost and expense, take any and all actions necessary to correct the consequences of the misrepresentations. Partial Entitlement ADSs If any Air France-KLM shares are deposited which entitle the holders thereof to receive a per-share distribution or other entitlement in an amount different from all other Air France-KLM shares then on deposit, 140 Table of Contents the depositary bank shall (i) cause its custodian to hold Air France-KLM shares with partial entitlements separate and distinct from the Air France-KLM shares with full entitlements, and (ii) subject to the terms of the ADS deposit agreement, issue and deliver partial entitlement ADSs representing Air France-KLM shares with partial entitlements that are separate and distinct from the ADSs representing Air France-KLM shares with full entitlements by means of separate CUSIP numbering and legending, as applicable. If and when Air France-KLM shares with partial entitlements become fully “assimilated” with the Air France-KLM shares outstanding, the depositary bank shall (a) cause its custodian to transfer Air France-KLM shares with partial entitlements into the depositary bank’s account containing Air France-KLM shares with full entitlements, (b) take such actions as are necessary to remove the distinctions between (i) the partial entitlement ADSs and ADRs, on the one hand, and (ii) the ADSs and ADRs with full entitlements, on the other hand and (c) give notice thereof to holders of partial entitlement ADSs and give holders of partial entitlement ADRs the opportunity to exchange their partial entitlement ADRs for ADRs with full entitlements. Holders and beneficial owners of partial entitlement ADSs shall be limited to the entitlements of those Air France-KLM shares with partial entitlements. Transfer, Combination and Split Up of ADRs As an ADR holder, you will be entitled to transfer, combine or split up your ADRs and the ADSs evidenced thereby. For transfers of ADRs, you or your duly authorized attorney will have to surrender and deliver the ADRs to be transferred to the depositary bank and also must: • ensure that the surrendered ADR is properly endorsed or otherwise in proper form for transfer, • provide such proof of identity and genuineness of signatures as the depositary bank deems appropriate, • provide any transfer stamps required by the State of New York or the United States, and • pay all applicable fees, charges, expenses, taxes and other government charges payable by ADR holders pursuant to the terms of the ADS deposit agreement, upon the transfer of ADRs. To have your ADRs either combined or split up, you must surrender the ADRs in question to the depositary bank with your request to have them combined or split up, and you must pay all applicable fees, charges and expenses payable by ADR holders, pursuant to the terms of the ADS deposit agreement upon a combination or split up of ADRs. Withdrawal of Shares upon Cancellation of ADSs As a holder of ADSs, you will be entitled to present your ADSs to the depositary bank for cancellation and then receive the corresponding number of underlying Air France-KLM shares at the custodian’s offices. In order to withdraw the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs, you will be required to pay to the depositary the fees for cancellation of ADSs and any charges and taxes payable upon the transfer of the Air France-KLM shares being withdrawn. You assume the risk for delivery of all funds and securities upon withdrawal. Once canceled, the ADSs will not have any rights under the ADS deposit agreement. If you hold ADSs registered in your name, the depositary bank may ask you to provide proof of identity and genuineness of any signature and such other documents as the depositary bank may deem appropriate before it will cancel your ADSs. The withdrawal of the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs may be delayed until the depositary bank receives satisfactory evidence of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Please keep in mind that the depositary bank will only accept ADSs for cancellation that represent a whole number of securities on deposit. You will have the right to withdraw the securities represented by your ADSs at any time except for: • temporary delays that may arise because (i) the transfer books for the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs are closed, or (ii) Air France-KLM shares are immobilized on account of a shareholders’ meeting or a payment of dividends, 141 Table of Contents • obligations to pay fees, taxes and similar charges, and • restrictions imposed because of laws or regulations applicable to ADSs or the withdrawal of Air France-KLM shares. The ADS deposit agreement may not be modified to impair your right to withdraw the securities represented by your ADSs except to comply with mandatory provisions of law. Voting Rights As a holder of ADSs, you generally will have the right under the ADS deposit agreement to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting rights for the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs. The voting rights of holders of Air France-KLM shares are described in “—Attendance and Voting of Shareholders’ Meetings—Attendance and Voting Rights”. At our request, the depositary bank will distribute to you any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the depositary bank timely receives voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in accordance with the terms of the ADS deposit agreement, it will endeavor insofar as practicable and permitted under any applicable provisions of French law and our articles of association and the terms and conditions of the Air France-KLM shares to cause to be voted the securities represented by the holder’s ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. If you wish to exercise your voting rights with respect to ADSs representing Air France-KLM shares in bearer form you must comply with one of two procedures, depending on whether your ADSs are recorded in your own name on the books of the depositary bank or you hold the ADS in a brokerage or safekeeping account. If your ADSs are recorded in your name on the books of the depositary bank, you may exercise your voting rights by (a) instructing the depositary bank to block the transfer of your ADSs until the completion of the shareholders’ meeting, (b) timely returning to the depositary bank voting instructions (in the manner acceptable to us and the depositary bank), and (c) instructing the depositary bank to (i) furnish the custodian with any information required in accordance with French law or our articles of association, (ii) notify the custodian that the transfer of such ADSs has been blocked, (iii) request that the custodian issue a certificate prohibiting the transfer of your Air France-KLM shares, and (iv) request that the custodian deposit such certificate together with your voting instructions with us at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date of the meeting and give notice to us of your intention to vote. With respect to your ADSs which are not recorded in your name on the books of the depositary bank, if you wish to exercise your voting rights you must (x) deposit your ADSs in a blocked account established by the depositary bank for a specified period of time (which period shall commence at least five (5) days prior to the date of the stockholders’ meeting and finish upon the completion of such meeting), (y) timely return to the depositary bank voting instructions (in the manner acceptable to us and the depositary bank), and (z) instruct the depositary bank to (i) furnish the custodian with any information required in accordance with French law or our articles of association, (ii) notify the custodian that the transfer of such ADSs has been blocked, (iii) request that the custodian issue a certificate prohibiting the transfer of your Air France-KLM shares and (iv) request that the custodian deposit such certificate together with your voting instructions with us at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date of the meeting and give notice to us of your intention to vote. Only upon timely receipt by the depositary bank of (i) proper voting instructions (in the manner acceptable to us and to the depositary bank), and (ii) evidence satisfactory to the depositary bank that each of the requisite conditions to exercise your voting rights have been met, may the depositary bank, to the extent practicable and 142 Table of Contents permitted under any French law and our articles of association, cause the Air France-KLM shares represented by such ADSs to be voted in accordance with any non-discretionary instructions set forth in such voting instructions subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the ADS deposit agreement. Neither the depositary bank nor the custodian shall under any circumstances exercise any discretion as to voting and neither the depositary bank nor the custodian shall vote, attempt to exercise the right to vote, or in any way make use of the Air France-KLM shares represented by ADSs, except pursuant to and in accordance with the voting instructions timely received from holders. Your ADSs shall not be voted if timely voting instructions are not received by the depositary bank. Please note that the ability of the depositary bank to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure you that you will receive voting materials in time to enable you to return voting instructions to the depositary bank in a timely manner. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. Limitations on the Right to Own, Transfer or Vote Air France-KLM ADSs; Compulsory Transfer of Air France-KLM Shares The Air France-KLM shares on deposit with the depositary bank and the ADSs are subject to restrictions on ownership as described under “—Form and Holding of Shares – Compulsory Transfer of Shares”. Holders and beneficial owners of ADSs agree to be bound by such restrictions. The depositary bank has agreed to take certain actions in enforcing these restrictions. The depositary bank will forward to the holders of ADSs or to Air France-KLM, as the case may be, communications furnished to it relating to the application of such provisions. We intend to treat all of the shares held by the depositary bank as shares held by nationals other than nationals of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or a state party to any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), unless we have received satisfactory evidence as to why they should not be so treated. We are entitled to assume that each holder of ADSs with a registered address outside of the European Union or EEA countries is or holds on behalf of a non-E.U. or non-EEA country national, respectively. An ADS holder that is a national of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or a state party to any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport) and who wishes to provide us with evidence of such status must open an account directly with the depositary bank and provide such evidence as we may require to establish that the Air France-KLM shares underlying such holder’s ADSs are held by a national of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or a state party to any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport). Since some or all holders of ADSs or holders of an interest therein may be deemed to be nationals of a country other than an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or a state party to any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), as the case may be, in the event of a determination by us (as described in “—Form and Holding of Shares—Compulsory Transfer of Shares”) that 45% or more of its share capital or voting rights is held, directly or indirectly, by non-French nationals, you may not be entitled to direct the voting of some or all of the Air France-KLM shares on deposit with the depositary bank and underlying your ADSs. Should we make such a determination, we will issue a formal request (mise en demeure) as a matter of priority to shareholders who are not nationals of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or a state party to any agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport) requiring them to transfer all or a portion of their shares. The formal request will apply to shares based on the order they were registered in our share register, beginning with the most recently registered shares. Thereafter, should we determine that 45% or more of our share capital or voting rights remains in the ownership of non-French nationals, we may issue such a formal request to nationals of an E.U. member state (including France) or a state that is party to the EEA (or a state party to any other agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), on the same basis as described in the preceding sentence. The formal request for assignment of stock may be implemented in one or more phases for so long as, in light of the information available to us and the transfers already effected, the fraction of the share capital or voting rights held, directly or indirectly, by shareholders other than French nationals continues to equal at least 45%. 143 Table of Contents In addition, there may be a forced sale by us of some or all of our shares on deposit with the depositary bank and underlying your ADSs, if we have made a formal demand for the transfer of these Air France-KLM shares and you have not effected such transfer within the two months following the formal request to the depositary bank requiring such disposal. If the depositary bank receives such a formal request or writ of summons, under the circumstances described in the preceding paragraphs, concerning Air France-KLM shares held on deposit by it and in which a national other than a national of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or of a state party to any agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), as the case may be, is believed or deemed to be interested, the depositary bank will (i) refuse to register any issuance of Air France-KLM ADSs relating to the named shares and will refuse to register any transfer on the register of the depositary bank of the related Air France-KLM ADSs, in each case, other than under the procedure laid down in the 2003 Air Carrier Law and our articles of association, or until such formal request or writ of summons is withdrawn by us, (ii) not exercise the voting rights normally attached to such Air France-KLM shares, to the extent that the voting rights of such Air France-KLM shares are denied to the depositary bank in such formal request or writ of summons until such formal request or writ of summons is withdrawn by us, (iii) give notice to such holder, who is not a national of an E.U. member state or a state that is party to the EEA (or of a state party to any agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport) (as appropriate), of the particular Air France-KLM shares or ADSs of the actions described in (i) and (ii) above and promptly forward the above-mentioned formal request or writ of summons and accompanying documents to such holder and (iv) state that the related Air France-KLM shares are to be sold. In addition, if the depositary bank receives a formal request or writ of summons concerning Air France-KLM shares held on deposit by it and in which a national of an E.U. member state (including France) or a state that is party to the EEA (or of a state party to any agreement whose scope is equivalent in terms of air transport), as the case may be, is believed or deemed by us to be interested, the depositary bank will (i) refuse to register any issuance of the related Air France-KLM ADSs and refuse to register any transfer on the register of the depositary bank of the related Air France-KLM ADSs to any holder, in each case, other than under the procedure laid down in the 2003 Air Carrier Law and our articles of association, or until such formal request or writ of summons is withdrawn by us, (ii) not exercise the voting rights normally attached to such Air France-KLM shares, to the extent that the voting rights of such Air France-KLM shares are denied to the depositary bank in such formal request or writ of summons until such formal request or writ of summons is withdrawn by us, (iii) give notice to such holder of the particular Air France-KLM shares or ADSs of the actions described in (i) and (ii) above and promptly forward the above-mentioned formal request or writ of summons and accompanying documents to such holder and (iv) state that the related Air France-KLM shares are to be sold. The notice mentioned in clause (iii) of this and the preceding paragraph and given by the depositary bank will also state that if any forced sale of the related Air France-KLM shares has occurred, the related ADS will represent only the right to receive the cash proceeds of such sale, net of any taxes and expenses incurred or paid in distributing such proceeds. Any denial of voting rights or sale of deposited Air France-KLM shares may be attributed to specific holders of ADSs or, in certain circumstances, pro rata to all holders of ADSs. Any fractional ADSs held by holders of ADSs following the sale of deposited Air France-KLM shares in accordance with the terms hereof will be sold and the proceeds of such sale will be distributed as in the case of a cash distribution. Any holder of an ADS holding through a nominee should be aware that such nominee may be required to provide us with certain information as to the identity of such nominee’s beneficial holders and that, to the extent that such nominee does not provide such information, such holders may be deemed to be in violation of the restrictions on ownership and voting described above. 144 Table of Contents Fees and Charges As an ADS holder, you will be required to pay the following service fees to the depositary bank: Service Fees Issuance of ADSs Up to U.S. 5¢ per ADS issued Cancellation of ADSs Up to U.S. 5¢ per ADS canceled Exercise of rights to purchase additional ADSs Up to U.S. 5¢ per ADS issued Distributions of cash proceeds (i.e., upon sale of rights or other entitlements) Up to U.S. 2¢ per ADS held Distribution of securities other than ADSs or rights to purchase additional ADSs Up to U.S. 5¢ per share (or fraction thereof) distributed As an ADS holder you will also be responsible for paying certain fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank and certain taxes and governmental charges such as: • fees for the transfer and registration of Air France-KLM shares in France charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the Air France-KLM shares (i.e., upon deposit and withdrawal of Air France-KLM shares), • expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into U.S. dollars, • expenses for cable, telex and fax transmissions and for delivery of securities, • taxes (including applicable interest and penalties) and duties upon the transfer of securities (i.e., when Air France-KLM shares are deposited or withdrawn from deposit), • fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank, the custodian or any nominee in connection with the delivery or servicing of Air France-KLM shares on deposit, and • fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank in connection with exchange control regulations and other regulatory requirements. We have agreed to pay certain other charges and expenses of the depositary bank. Note that the fees and charges you are required to pay may vary over time and may be changed by us and by the depositary bank. You will receive prior notice of such changes. Amendments and Termination We may agree with the depositary bank to modify the ADS deposit agreement at any time without your consent. We will not consider to be materially prejudicial to your substantial rights any modifications or supplements that are reasonably necessary for the ADSs to be registered under the Securities Act or to be eligible for book-entry settlement, in each case without imposing or increasing the fees and charges you are required to pay. In addition, we may not be able to provide you with prior notice of any modifications or supplements that are required to accommodate compliance with applicable provisions of law. You will be bound by the modifications to the ADS deposit agreement if you continue to hold your ADSs after the modifications to such ADS deposit agreement become effective. The ADS deposit agreement cannot be amended to prevent you from withdrawing the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs except as permitted by law. 145 Table of Contents We have the right to direct the depositary bank to terminate the ADS deposit agreement. Similarly, the depositary bank may in certain circumstances on its own initiative terminate such ADS deposit agreement. In either case, the depositary bank must give notice to the holders at least 30 days before termination. Upon termination, the following will occur under such ADS deposit agreement: • For a period of six months after termination, upon the payment of the charges of the depositary bank, and upon payment of any applicable taxes and governmental charges, you will be able to request the cancellation of your ADSs and the withdrawal of the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs and the delivery of all other property held by the depositary bank in respect of those Air France-KLM shares on the same terms as prior to the termination. During such six months’ period the depositary bank will continue to collect all distributions received on the Air France-KLM shares on deposit (e.g. dividends) but will not distribute any such property to you until you request the cancellation of your ADSs. • After the expiration of such six months’ period, the depositary bank may sell the securities held on deposit. The depositary bank will hold the proceeds from such sale and any other funds then held for the holders of ADSs uninvested in an unsegregated account. At that point, the depositary bank will have no further obligations to holders other than to account for the funds then held for the holders of ADSs still outstanding. Books of Depositary The depositary bank will maintain ADS holder records at its depositary office. You may inspect such records at such office during regular business hours but solely for the purpose of communicating with other holders in the interest of business matters relating to the ADSs and the ADS deposit agreement. The depositary bank will maintain in New York facilities to record and process the issuance, cancellation, combination, split-up and transfer of ADRs. These facilities may be closed from time to time, to the extent not prohibited by law. Limitations on Obligations and Liabilities The ADS deposit agreement limits our obligations and the depositary bank’s obligations to you. Please note the following: • We and the depositary bank are obligated only to take the actions specifically stated in such ADS deposit agreement without negligence or bad faith. • The depositary bank disclaims any liability for any failure to carry out voting instructions, for any manner in which a vote is cast or for the effect of any vote, provided it acts in good faith and in accordance with the terms of such ADS deposit agreement. • The depositary bank disclaims any liability for any failure to determine the lawfulness or practicality of any action, for the content of any document forwarded to you on our behalf or for the accuracy of any translation of such a document, for the investment risks associated with investing in Air France-KLM shares, for the validity or value of the Air France-KLM shares, for any tax consequences that result from the ownership of ADSs, for the credit-worthiness of any third party, for allowing any rights to lapse under the terms of such ADS deposit agreement, for the timeliness of any of our notices or for our failure to give notice. • We and the depositary bank will not be obligated to perform any act that is inconsistent with the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. 146 Table of Contents • We and the depositary bank disclaim any liability if we are prevented or forbidden from acting on account of any law or regulation, any provision of our articles of association, any provision of any securities on deposit or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstances beyond our control. • We and the depositary bank disclaim any liability by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for such ADS deposit agreement or in our articles of association or in any provisions of securities on deposit. • We and the depositary bank further disclaim any liability for any action or inaction in reliance on the advice or information received from legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting Air France-KLM shares for deposit, any holder of ADSs or authorized representatives thereof, or any other person believed by either of us in good faith to be competent to give such advice or information. • We and the depositary bank also disclaim liability for the inability by a holder to benefit from any distribution, offering, right or other benefit which is made available to holders of Air France-KLM shares but is not, under the terms of such ADS deposit agreement, made available to you. • We and the depositary bank may rely without any liability upon any written notice, request or other document believed to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper parties. • We and the depositary bank also disclaim liability for any consequential or punitive damages for any breach of the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. Pre-Release Transactions The depositary bank may, in certain circumstances, issue ADSs before receiving a deposit of Air France-KLM shares or release Air France-KLM shares before receiving ADSs for cancellation. These transactions are commonly referred to as “pre-release transactions”. The ADS deposit agreement limits the aggregate size of pre-release transactions and imposes a number of conditions on such transactions (e.g., the need to receive collateral in an amount equal to the market value of such ADSs as calculated on a daily (marked to market) basis, the type of collateral required, the representations required from brokers, etc.). The depositary bank may retain the compensation received from the pre-release transactions. Taxes You will be responsible for the taxes and other governmental charges payable on the ADSs and the securities represented by the ADSs. We, the depositary bank and the custodian may deduct from any distribution the taxes and governmental charges payable by holders and may sell any and all property on deposit to pay the taxes and governmental charges payable by holders. You will be liable for any deficiency if the sale proceeds do not cover the taxes that are due. The depositary bank may refuse to issue ADSs, to deliver, transfer, split and combine ADRs or to release securities on deposit until all taxes and charges are paid by the applicable holder. The depositary bank and the custodian may take reasonable administrative actions to obtain tax refunds and reduced tax withholding for any distributions on your behalf. However, you may be required to provide to the depositary bank and to the custodian proof of taxpayer status and residence and such other information as the depositary bank and the custodian may require to fulfill legal obligations. You are required to indemnify us, the depositary bank and the custodian for any claims with respect to taxes based on any tax benefit obtained for you. Foreign Currency Conversion The depositary bank will arrange for the conversion of all foreign currency received into U.S. dollars if such conversion is practicable, and it will distribute the U.S. dollars in accordance with the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. You may have to pay fees and expenses incurred in converting foreign currency, such as fees and expenses incurred in complying with currency exchange controls and other governmental requirements. 147 Table of Contents If the conversion of foreign currency is not practical or lawful, or if any required approvals are denied or not obtainable at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period, the depositary bank may take the following actions in its discretion: • convert and distribute the foreign currency to the extent practical and lawful to the holders for whom the conversion, transfer and distribution is lawful and practical, • distribute the foreign currency to holders for whom the distribution is lawful and practical, and • hold the foreign currency (without liability for interest) for the applicable holders. Requirements Applicable to Shareholders Exceeding Certain Percentages Notwithstanding any other provision of the ADS deposit agreement, each holder or other person with an interest in ADSs will agree to be bound by, and subject to, applicable provisions of the laws of France, our articles of association and any regulations governing shares quoted on Euronext Paris to the same extent as holders of Air France-KLM shares. The obligation of a holder or other person with an interest in Air France-KLM shares to disclose certain information pursuant to the laws of France and our articles of association also applies to you and any other person with an interest in the ADSs and, in certain circumstances (as described in “– Requirements Applicable to Shareholdings Exceeding Certain Percentages”), to us. The consequences for failure to comply with these provisions will be the same for you and any other persons with an interest in Air France-KLM shares as for a holder thereof. By holding ADSs, you acknowledge that we, the depositary bank and the custodian, may take any and all actions contemplated under French law in respect of the Air France-KLM shares represented by your ADSs in the event you fail to observe the disclosure obligations under French law and our articles of association, as described in “– Requirements Applicable to Shareholdings Exceeding Certain Percentages”. In order to facilitate compliance with such disclosure obligations, you and any other person with an interest in the ADSs may deliver any disclosure notification with respect to Air France-KLM shares represented by ADSs to the depositary bank. The depositary bank will, to the extent practicable, forward such notification to us. At our request, the depositary bank will forward to any holders of ADSs any request by us for information and comply with our instructions, to the extent practicable, given in connection with the foregoing. If we request information from the depositary bank or the custodian, as registered owners of Air France-KLM shares, pursuant to the laws of France or our articles of association, the obligations of the depositary bank or the custodian, as the case may be, shall be limited to disclosing to us such information relating to the Air France-KLM shares in question as has in each case been recorded by it pursuant to the terms of the ADS deposit agreement. American Depositary Warrants General Citibank, N.A. has agreed to act as the depositary bank for the American Depositary Warrants of Air France-KLM. Citibank’s depositary offices are located at 111 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005. American Depositary Warrants are referred to as ADWs and represent ownership interests in Air France-KLM warrants that are on deposit with the depositary bank. ADWs may be represented by certificates that are commonly known as American Depositary Warrant Receipts or ADWRs. The depositary bank typically appoints a custodian to safekeep the securities on deposit. In this case, the custodian is Citibank, N.A. – Paris, located at Citicenter, 19 Le Parvis, 92073 Paris La Défense, Cedex 36. Citibank has agreed to act as depositary bank for the ADWs pursuant to a deposit agreement (the ADW deposit agreement). A copy of the ADW deposit agreement is on file with the SEC under cover of a Registration Statement on Form F-6. You may obtain a copy of the ADW deposit agreement from the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov) or from the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. 148 Table of Contents We are providing you with a summary description of the material terms of the ADWs and of the material rights of an owner of ADWs. Please remember that summaries by their nature lack the precision of the information summarized and that a holder’s rights and obligations as an owner of ADWs will be determined by the ADW deposit agreement and not by this summary. We urge you to review the ADW deposit agreement in its entirety as well as the form of ADWR attached to the ADW deposit agreement. Each ADW represents the right to receive one Air France-KLM warrant on deposit with the custodian bank. An ADW will also represent any other property received by the depositary bank or the custodian on behalf of the owner of the ADW but that has not been distributed to the owners of ADWs because of legal restrictions or practical considerations. If you become an owner of ADWs, you will become a party to the ADW deposit agreement and therefore will be bound to its terms and, if your ADWs are represented by a certificate, to the terms of the ADWR that represents your ADWs. The ADW deposit agreement and the ADWR specify our rights and obligations as well as your rights and obligations as owner of ADWs and those of the depositary bank. As an ADW holder you appoint the depositary bank to act on your behalf in certain circumstances. The ADW deposit agreement is governed by New York law. However, our obligations to the holders of Air France-KLM warrants will continue to be governed by the laws of The Republic of France, which may be different from the laws in the United States. As an owner of ADWs, you may hold your ADWs by means of an ADWR registered in your name through a third party brokerage or safekeeping account or through an account at the depositary bank reflecting the registration of your uncertificated ADWs on the books of the depositary bank (commonly referred to as the “direct registration system”). The direct registration system reflects the uncertificated (book-entry) registration of ownership of securities by the depositary bank. Under the direct registration system, ownership of ADWs is evidenced by periodic statements issued by the depositary bank to the holders of the ADWs. The direct registration system includes automated transfers between the depositary bank and DTC, the central book-entry clearing and settlement system in the United States. If you decide to hold your ADWs through a third party brokerage or safekeeping account, you must rely on the procedures of your broker or bank to assert your rights as ADW owner. Please consult with your broker or bank to determine what those procedures are. This summary description assumes you have opted to own the ADWs registered in your name and, as such, we will refer to you as the “holder”. When we refer to “you”, we assume the reader owns ADWs and will own ADWs at the relevant time. Exercise of ADWs Holders of ADWs may exercise the Air France-KLM warrants represented by their ADWs on any New York and French business day prior to the expiration of the Air France-KLM warrants, subject in each case to the terms and conditions of the Air France-KLM warrants and the ADW deposit agreement. Warrants will only be accepted for exercise in multiples of three. Any holder of ADWs wishing to exercise the underlying Air France-KLM warrants represented by the ADWs will need to take the following actions: • deliver the applicable ADWs to the depositary bank, together with instructions to cancel such ADWs and to deliver the corresponding Air France-KLM warrants to the Air France-KLM warrant agent, and pay to the depositary bank the applicable ADW cancellation fees, and • deliver to the custodian a duly completed ADW exercise form together with the applicable warrant exercise price (in euro). Holders of ADWs who duly exercise the Air France-KLM warrants represented by their ADWs will have the opportunity to elect to receive Air France-KLM shares or Air France-KLM ADSs, subject in each case to the terms of the Air France-KLM warrants and in the case of Air France-KLM ADSs to the terms of the Air France-KLM ADS deposit agreement. See “—American Depositary Shares” for a summary description of the Air France-KLM ADS deposit agreement. 149 Table of Contents A holder who exercises the Air France-KLM warrants represented by their ADWs will become the owner of Air France-KLM shares only upon receipt by the Air France-KLM warrant agent of (i) the requisite Air France-KLM warrants (upon cancellation of ADWs), (ii) the duly completed exercise instructions, and (iii) the applicable exercise price. The form exercise instructions to be delivered to the Air France warrant-KLM agent may be obtained from the depositary bank. Under the terms of the Air France-KLM warrants, Air France-KLM shares issued upon exercise of Air France-KLM warrants will entitle holders to all distributions on Air France-KLM shares made in respect of the Air France-KLM financial year in which the Air France-KLM warrants are exercised and in respect of all subsequent periods. Holders of Air France-KLM warrants who validly exercise the Air France-KLM warrants and become the owners of Air France-KLM shares before the distribution of a “prior year distribution” will not be entitled to receive the distribution relating to our prior financial year. If a holder of ADWs duly exercises the underlying Air France-KLM warrants, elects to receive the Air France-KLM shares in the form of Air France-KLM ADSs and the Air France-KLM shares are issued before the distribution of “prior year distribution” the Air France-KLM ADSs issued in respect of such shares will be “Partial Entitlement ADSs” until we inform the depositary bank that the Air France-KLM shares have been fully assimilated with the Air France-KLM shares outstanding at the time the Air France-KLM warrants were exercised. See “—American Depositary Shares” for a description of Partial Entitlement ADSs. If we suspend the right to exercise Air France-KLM warrants at any time, we will give notice thereof to the depositary bank setting forth the term and reason for such suspension. Upon receipt of such notice, the depositary bank shall give notice thereof to the holders of ADWs and shall refuse during the period of such suspension to accept instructions to cancel ADWs for the purpose of exercising Air France-KLM warrants. Distributions in Respect of ADWs As a holder of ADWs, you generally have the right to receive the distributions the depositary bank receives in respect of the warrants deposited with the custodian bank. Your receipt of these distributions may be limited, however, by practical considerations and legal limitations. Holders of ADWs will receive such distributions under the terms of the ADW deposit agreement in proportion to the number of ADWs held as of a specified record date. Distributions of Cash Whenever the depositary bank receives cash in respect of the securities on deposit with the custodian, the depositary bank will arrange for the funds to be converted into U.S. dollars and for the distribution of the U.S. dollars to the holders. The conversion into U.S. dollars will take place only if practicable. The amounts distributed to holders will be net of the fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. The depositary bank will apply the same method for distributing the proceeds of the sale of any property (such as undistributed rights) held by the custodian in respect of securities on deposit. Distributions of Warrants In the event that any distribution on any deposited securities consists of a free distribution of Air France-KLM warrants, the depositary bank may (with our consent) and shall (if we so request) either distribute to holders new ADWs representing the Air France-KLM warrants deposited or modify the ADW-to-Air France-KLM warrant ratio, in which case each ADW you hold will represent rights and interests in the additional Air France-KLM warrants so deposited. Only whole new ADWs will be distributed. Fractional entitlements will be sold and the proceeds of such sale will be distributed as in the case of a cash distribution. 150 Table of Contents The distribution of new ADWs or the modification of the ADW-to-Air France-KLM warrant ratio upon a distribution of Air France-KLM warrants will be made net of the fees, expenses, taxes and governmental charges payable by holders under the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. In order to pay such taxes or governmental charges, the depositary bank may sell all or a portion of the new Air France-KLM warrants received. No such distribution of new ADWs will be made if it would violate a law, including the U.S. securities laws, or if it is not operationally practicable. If the depositary bank does not distribute new ADWs or modify the ADW-to-Air France-KLM warrant ratio as described above, it will use its best efforts to sell the Air France-KLM warrants received and will distribute the proceeds of the sale as in the case of a distribution of cash. In the event that holders of Air France-KLM warrants are granted the option to receive distributions in the form of additional Air France-KLM warrants, the depositary bank will make such distribution available to holders of ADWs only with our prior consent. Other Distributions In the event the depositary bank or the custodian receives in respect of the deposited securities any distribution other than cash or Air France-KLM warrants, the depositary bank shall distribute the securities or property so received to holders of ADWs in proportion to the number of ADWs held in any manner the depositary bank may deem equitable and practicable. In the event the depositary bank determines such distribution cannot be made proportionately or that such distribution is not practicable, the depositary bank shall adopt any method deemed equitable and practicable to effectuate distribution (including by means of a sale of the securities and property so received and the distribution of the net cash proceeds). Redemption Whenever we decide to redeem any of the securities on deposit with the custodian, we will notify the depositary bank in advance. If the depositary bank is timely notified, and it has determined that it is reasonably practicable and if we provide all of the documentation contemplated in the ADW deposit agreement, the depositary bank will mail notice of the redemption to the holders. The custodian will be instructed to surrender the Air France-KLM warrants being redeemed against payment of the applicable redemption price. The depositary bank will convert the redemption funds received into U.S. dollars upon the terms of the ADW deposit agreement and will establish procedures to enable holders to receive the net proceeds from the redemption upon surrender of their ADWs to the depositary bank. You may have to pay fees, expenses, taxes and other governmental charges upon the redemption of your ADWs. If less than all outstanding ADWs are being redeemed, the ADWs to be retired will be selected by lot or on a pro rata basis, as the depositary bank may determine. Changes Affecting Air France-KLM Warrants In the event that any of the terms of the Air France-KLM warrants are modified (i.e., upon the occurrence of a change in the number of Air France-KLM shares to be issued upon exercise of Air France-KLM warrants), we will give notice thereof to the depositary bank with instructions to provide notice thereof to holders of ADWs and will cooperate with the depositary bank in taking all reasonably necessary actions under the ADW deposit agreement. Upon any split-up, consolidation, cancellation or reclassification of Air France-KLM warrants or in the event of any recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale of assets that affect us or to which we are a party, we will notify the depositary bank and the depositary bank will give notice thereof to the holders of ADWs. After the occurrence of such event, the ADWs will, to the maximum extent permitted by law, represent the right to receive the securities received by the custodian in exchange or conversion for the Air France-KLM warrants. In any such event, additional ADWs may be issued or existing ADWs may be called for surrender and exchange into new ADWs. 151 Table of Contents Issuance of ADWs upon Deposit of Air France-KLM Warrants The depositary bank may create ADWs on your behalf if you or your broker deposit Air France-KLM warrants with the custodian. The depositary bank will deliver these ADWs to the person you indicate only after you pay any applicable issuance fees and any charges and taxes payable for the transfer of the Air France-KLM warrants to the custodian. Your ability to deposit Air France-KLM warrants may be limited by U.S. and French legal considerations applicable at the time of deposit and the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. The issuance of ADWs may be delayed until the depositary bank or the custodian receives satisfactory confirmation that all required approvals have been given by the applicable governmental agency in the Republic of France and that the Air France-KLM warrants have been duly transferred to the custodian. The depositary bank will only issue ADWs in whole numbers. When you make a deposit of Air France-KLM warrants, you will be responsible for transferring good and valid title to the depositary bank. As such, you will be deemed to represent and warrant that: • the Air France-KLM warrants are validly issued, fully paid, and non-assessable, • you are duly authorized to deposit the Air France-KLM warrants, • the Air France-KLM warrants presented for deposit are free and clear of any lien, encumbrance, security interest, charge, mortgage or adverse claim, and are not, and the ADWs issuable upon such deposit will not be, “restricted securities” (as defined in the ADW deposit agreement), and • the Air France-KLM warrants presented for deposit have not been stripped of any rights or entitlements. If any of the representations or warranties are incorrect in any way, we and the depositary bank may, at your cost and expense, take any and all actions necessary to correct the consequences of the misrepresentations. Withdrawal of Warrants upon Cancellation of ADWs As a holder of ADWs, you will be entitled to present your ADWs to the depositary bank for cancellation and then receive the underlying Air France-KLM warrants at the custodian’s offices. In order to withdraw the Air France-KLM warrants represented by your ADWs, you will be required to pay to the depositary the fees for cancellation of ADWs and any charges and taxes payable upon the transfer of the Air France-KLM warrants being withdrawn. You assume the risk for delivery of all funds and securities upon withdrawal. Once canceled, the ADWs will not have any rights under the ADW deposit agreement. If you hold ADWs registered in your name, the depositary bank may ask you to provide proof of identity and genuineness of any signature and such other documents as the depositary bank may deem appropriate before it will cancel your ADWs. The withdrawal of the Air France-KLM warrants represented by your ADWs may be delayed until the depositary bank receives satisfactory evidence of compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Please keep in mind that the depositary bank will only accept ADWs for cancellation that represent a whole number of securities on deposit. You will have the right to withdraw the securities represented by your ADWs at any time except for: • temporary delays that may arise because (i) the transfer books for the Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs are closed, or (ii) Air France-KLM warrants are immobilized on account of a shareholders’ meeting or a payment of dividends, • obligations to pay fees, taxes and similar charges, and • restrictions imposed because of laws or regulations applicable to ADWs or the withdrawal of securities on deposit. 152 Table of Contents The ADW deposit agreement may not be modified to impair your right to withdraw the securities represented by your ADWs except to comply with mandatory provisions of law. Voting Rights In the event we establish a meeting at which holders of Air France-KLM warrants may vote or wish to seek the consent of holders of Air France-KLM warrants, as a holder of ADWs, you generally will have the right under the ADW deposit agreement to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting or consent rights for the Air France-KLM warrants represented by ADWs you own as of the applicable record date. At our request, the depositary bank will mail to you any notice of meeting of Air France-KLM warrant holders or of Air France-KLM warrant holder consent solicitation received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the depositary bank to exercise the voting or consent rights applicable to Air France-KLM warrants represented by your ADWs. If the depositary bank timely receives instructions from a holder of ADWs, it will endeavor, insofar as practicable and permitted by law, our articles of association and the terms and conditions of the Air France-KLM warrants, to instruct the custodian to exercise voting or the consent rights with respect to the Air France-KLM warrants represented by the holder’s ADWs in accordance with such instructions. Please note that the ability of the depositary bank to carry out instructions as to voting or a consent solicitation may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure you that you will receive voting or consent solicitation materials in time to enable you to return instructions to the depositary bank in a timely manner. No consent will be granted and no vote cast with respect to any securities for which instructions have not been received from ADW holders. Fees and Charges As an ADW holder, you will be required for paying the following service fees to the depositary bank: Service Fees Issuance of ADWs Up to 5¢ per ADW issued Cancellation of ADWs Up to 5¢ per ADW canceled Exercise of right to purchase ADSs Up to 2¢ per ADW exercised Exercise of right to purchase shares Up to 5¢ per ADW exercised Distribution of cash upon sale of rights and other entitlements Up to 2¢ per ADW held As an ADW holder you will also be responsible to pay certain fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank and certain taxes and governmental charges such as: • fees for the transfer and registration of Air France-KLM warrants charged by the registrar and transfer agent for the Air France-KLM warrants in France (i.e., upon deposit and withdrawal of Air France-KLM warrants), • expenses incurred for converting foreign currency into U.S. dollars, • expenses for cable, telex and fax transmissions and for delivery of securities, • taxes (including applicable interest and penalties) and duties upon the transfer of securities (i.e., when Air France-KLM warrants are deposited or withdrawn from deposit), 153 Table of Contents • fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank, the custodian or any nominee in connection with the delivery or servicing of Air France-KLM warrants on deposit, and • fees and expenses incurred by the depositary bank in connection with exchange control regulations and other regulatory requirements. We have agreed to pay certain other charges and expenses of the depositary bank. Note that the fees and charges you are required to pay may vary over time and may be changed by us and by the depositary bank. You will receive prior notice of such changes. Amendments and Termination We may agree with the depositary bank to modify the ADW deposit agreement at any time without your consent. We will not consider to be materially prejudicial to your substantial rights any modifications or supplements that are reasonably necessary for the ADWs to be registered under the Securities Act or to be eligible for book-entry settlement, in each case without imposing or increasing the fees and charges you are required to pay. In addition, we may not be able to provide you with prior notice of any modifications or supplements that are required to accommodate compliance with applicable provisions of law. You will be bound by the modifications to the ADW deposit agreement if you continue to hold your ADWs after the modifications to the ADW deposit agreement become effective. The ADW deposit agreement cannot be amended to prevent you from withdrawing the Air France-KLM warrants represented by your ADWs except as permitted by law. The ADW deposit agreement shall terminate automatically as of the date the Air France-KLM warrants expire. We have the right to direct the depositary bank to terminate the ADW deposit agreement. Similarly, the depositary bank may in certain circumstances on its own initiative terminate the ADW deposit agreement. In either case, the depositary bank must give notice to the holders at least 30 days before termination. Upon termination, the following will occur under the ADW deposit agreement: • For a period of six months after termination; upon the payment of charges to the depositary bank, and upon payment of any applicable taxes and governmental charges, you will be able to request the cancellation of your ADWs and the withdrawal of the Air France-KLM warrants represented by your ADWs and the delivery of all other property held by the depositary bank in respect of those Air France-KLM warrants on the same terms as prior to the termination. During such six months’ period the depositary bank will continue to collect all distributions received on the Air France-KLM warrants on deposit (e.g., dividends) but will not distribute any such property to you until you request the cancellation of your ADWs. • After the expiration of such six months’ period, the depositary bank may sell the securities held on deposit. The depositary bank will hold the proceeds from such sale and any other funds then held for the holders of ADWs uninvested in an unsegregated account. At that point, the depositary bank will have no further obligations to holders other than to account for the funds then held for the holders of ADWs still outstanding. Books of Depositary The depositary bank will maintain ADW holder records at its depositary office. You may inspect such records at such office during regular business hours but solely for the purpose of communicating with other holders in the interest of business matters relating to the ADWs and the ADW deposit agreement. 154 Table of Contents The depositary bank will maintain in New York facilities to record and process the issuance, cancellation, combination, split-up and transfer of ADWs. These facilities may be closed from time to time, to the extent not prohibited by law. Limitations on Obligations and Liabilities The ADW deposit agreement limits our obligations and the depositary bank’s obligations to you. Please note the following: • We and the depositary bank are obligated only to take the actions specifically stated in the ADW deposit agreement without negligence or bad faith. • The depositary bank disclaims any liability for any failure to carry out instructions to vote or exercise consent rights, for any manner in which a vote is cast or consent is given or for the effect of any vote or consent, provided it acts in good faith and in accordance with the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. • The depositary bank disclaims any liability for any failure to determine the lawfulness or practicality of any action, for the content of any document forwarded to you on our behalf or for the accuracy of any translation of such a document, for the investment risks associated with investing in Air France-KLM warrants, for the validity or worth of the Air France-KLM warrants, for any tax consequences that result from the ownership of ADWs, for the credit-worthiness of any third party, for allowing any rights to lapse under the terms of the ADW deposit agreement, for the timeliness of any of our notices or for our failure to give notice. • We and the depositary bank will not be obligated to perform any act that is inconsistent with the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. • We and the depositary bank disclaim any liability if we are prevented or forbidden from acting on account of any law or regulation, any provision of our articles of association, any provision of any securities on deposit or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstances beyond our control. • We and the depositary bank disclaim any liability by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for the ADW deposit agreement or in our articles of association or in any provisions of securities on deposit. • We and the depositary bank further disclaim any liability for any action or inaction in reliance on the advice or information received from legal counsel, accountants, any person presenting Air France-KLM warrants for deposit, any holder of ADWs or authorized representatives thereof, or any other person believed by either of us in good faith to be competent to give such advice or information. • We and the depositary bank also disclaim liability for the inability by a holder to benefit from any distribution, offering, right or other benefit which is made available to holders of Air France-KLM warrants but is not, under the terms of the ADW deposit agreement, made available to you. • We and the depositary bank may rely without any liability upon any written notice, request or other document believed to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper parties. • We and the depositary bank also disclaim liability for any consequential or punitive damages for any breach of the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. Pre-Release Transactions The depositary bank may, in certain circumstances, issue ADWs before receiving a deposit of Air France-KLM warrants or release Air France-KLM warrants before receiving ADWs. These transactions are commonly 155 Table of Contents referred to as “pre-release transactions.” The ADW deposit agreement limits the aggregate size of pre-release transactions and imposes a number of conditions on such transactions (i.e., the need to receive collateral in an amount equal to the market value of such ADWs as calculated on a daily (marked to market) basis, the type of collateral required, the representations required from brokers, etc.). The depositary bank may retain the compensation received from the pre-release transactions. Taxes You will be responsible for the taxes and other governmental charges payable on the ADWs and the securities represented by the ADWs. We, the depositary bank and the custodian may deduct from any distribution the taxes and governmental charges payable by holders and may sell any and all property on deposit to pay the taxes and governmental charges payable by holders. You will be liable for any deficiency if the sale proceeds do not cover the taxes that are due. The depositary bank may refuse to issue ADWs, to deliver, transfer, split and combine ADWRs or to release securities on deposit until all taxes and charges are paid by the applicable holder. The depositary bank and the custodian may take reasonable administrative actions to obtain tax refunds and reduced tax withholding for any distributions on your behalf. However, you may be required to provide to the depositary bank and to the custodian proof of taxpayer status and residence and such other information as the depositary bank and the custodian may require to fulfill legal obligations. You are required to indemnify us, the depositary bank and the custodian for any claims with respect to taxes based on any tax benefit obtained for you. Foreign Currency Conversion The depositary bank will arrange for the conversion of all foreign currency received into U.S. dollars if such conversion is practicable, and it will distribute the U.S. dollars in accordance with the terms of the ADW deposit agreement. You may have to pay fees and expenses incurred in converting foreign currency, such as fees and expenses incurred in complying with currency exchange controls and other governmental requirements. If the conversion of foreign currency is not practical or lawful, or if any required approvals are denied or not obtainable at a reasonable cost or within a reasonable period, the depositary bank may take the following actions in its discretion: • convert and distribute the foreign currency to the extent practical and lawful to the holders for whom the conversion, transfer and distribution are lawful and practical, • distribute the foreign currency to holders for whom the distribution is lawful and practical, and • hold the foreign currency (without liability for interest) for the applicable holders. Miscellaneous Persons required under the laws of the Republic of France or our articles of association to inform us or the Autorité des Marchés Financiers of the number of Air France-KLM shares held by them must also include in such reports the number of Air France-KLM shares that they would have the right to acquire upon exercising all Air France-KLM warrants (including Air France-KLM shares represented by ADSs issued upon the exercise of ADWs). See “—Requirements Applicable to Shareholdings Exceeding Certain Percentages”. Material Contracts The Framework Agreement On October 16, 2003, Air France entered into the framework agreement with KLM pursuant to which Air France and KLM agreed to combine. The framework agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the 156 Table of Contents exchange offer, Air France’s agreements to acquire KLM’s outstanding priority shares, depositary receipts for cumulative preference shares A held by the State of the Netherlands and depositary receipts for cumulative preferences shares C. In addition, Air France and KLM agreed in the framework agreement on the corporate structure of the combined group after completion of the exchange offer, on certain corporate governance arrangements of Air France–KLM, on the assurances that have been agreed by Air France and KLM we well as the assurances that Air France and KLM have given to the State of the Netherlands. The framework agreement also addresses the hive down and KLM’s admission to the SkyTeam alliance. For details of the material terms and conditions of the framework agreement, see “Item 4: Information on the Company—History of Air France-KLM—The Combination with KLM and the Exchange Offer”. Aircraft Purchase Agreements Air France has entered into aircraft purchase agreements with Airbus Industrie relating to Model A330-200 and Model A318 aircraft and with The Boeing Company relating to Model 777-200/300 and Model 747-400 aircraft which we consider material. Copies of these aircraft purchase agreements, which are the subject of a request for confidential treatment that has been granted, were filed with the SEC on April 30, 2004 as exhibits to the registration statement on Form F-4. Exchange Controls Under current French foreign exchange control regulations, there are no limitations on the amount of cash payments we may remit to residents of the United States. Laws and regulations concerning foreign exchange controls do require, however, that all payments or transfers of funds made by a French resident to a non-resident be handled by an accredited financial intermediary. In France, all registered banks and substantially all credit establishments are accredited financial intermediaries. Holders of Air France-KLM shares, including shares represented by ADSs, are subject to various notification requirements under our articles of association and French law. Under the French Commercial Code, any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others that becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 5%, 10%, 20%, 33.3%, 50% or 66.6% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must notify us and the French Authority for Financial Markets within five trading days of crossing any of these thresholds. This notification requirement also applies to shareholders when their holding of shares or voting rights falls below any of these thresholds. If you fail to comply with these notification requirements, your shares, including shares represented by ADSs, in excess of the relevant notification threshold may be deprived of voting rights for up to two years on the demand of any shareholder. In addition, all or part of your voting rights may be suspended for up to five years by a French commercial court, and you may be subject to a fine of €18,000 at the request of the chairman of our board of directors, any Air France-KLM shareholder or the French Authority for Financial Markets. In addition, under our articles of association, any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others that becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 0.5% of our outstanding shares or voting rights or a multiple thereof up to 50% must notify us within 15 calendar days of crossing the ownership threshold. If you fail to comply with this notification requirement, your shares, including shares represented by ADSs, may be deprived of voting rights for up to two years on the demand of any one or more shareholders owning, together, at least 0.5% of our share capital. 157 Table of Contents See “Item 3: Key Information—Risk Factors—If you fail to comply with the notification requirements under French law and our articles of association, you could be deprived of some or all of your voting rights and be subject to a fine”. Taxation French Tax Considerations The following describes the material French tax consequences of the ownership and disposal of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs by a U.S. holder (as defined below). This discussion is not a complete description of all the tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs. It is based on the current tax law of the Republic of France as well as the Convention between the United States and the Republic of France for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to taxes on Income and Capital dated August 31, 1994 (the Treaty), all as in effect on the date of this prospectus and all subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. For the purpose of the Treaty, U.S. owners of Air France-KLM ADSs will be treated as owners of Air France-KLM shares underlying those ADSs. There is currently no procedure available for holders that are not U.S. residents to claim tax treaty benefits in respect of dividends received on Air France-KLM ADSs or shares registered in the name of a nominee. Such holders should consult their own tax advisor about the consequences of owning and disposing of Air France-KLM ADSs. As used herein, the term “U.S. holder” means a beneficial owner of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs and Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation created or organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income tax without regard to its source or (iv) a trust if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has elected to be treated as a domestic trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A “Non-U.S. holder” is a holder that is not a U.S. holder. This discussion does not address the treatment of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs that are held by a resident of France (except for purposes of describing related tax consequences for other holders) or in connection with a permanent establishment or fixed base through which a holder carries on business or performs personal services in France. It does not address the treatment of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs that are held by a U.S. holder that owns 5% or more of the voting stock of Air France-KLM. Your individual circumstances may affect the tax consequences of the ownership and disposal of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs to you, and your particular facts or circumstances are not considered in the discussion below. You should consult your own tax advisor regarding the French tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs in light of your particular circumstances. In particular, you should confirm whether you are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty with your advisor and should discuss any possible consequences of failing to be so eligible. 158 Table of Contents French Tax Consequences of Owning and Holding Air France-KLM Shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs Taxation of Dividends – Withholding Tax France generally imposes a 25% withholding tax on dividends distributed in cash or in the form of shares by a French corporation (such as Air France-KLM) to shareholders who is not a resident of France for French tax purposes. However, the Treaty generally reduces the withholding tax rate to 15% on dividends paid in cash or in the form of shares to an eligible U.S. holder. Under the Treaty, an eligible U.S. holder is a U.S. holder whose ownership of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs is not attributable to a permanent establishment or fixed base in France and who is: • an individual or other non-corporate holder, or • a corporation that does not own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the capital of Air France-KLM, provided in each case that such holder: • is a resident of the United States under the Treaty, • is entitled to Treaty benefits under the limitation on benefits provisions in Article 30 of the Treaty, and • complies with the procedural rules described below. The dividends paid by Air France-KLM to an eligible U.S. holder may be immediately subject to the reduced withholding tax rate, subject to compliance with the filing requirements described below under “Taxation of Dividends — Procedure to Obtain Treaty Benefits”. Taxation of Dividends – Tax credit When shareholders resident in France receive dividends from French companies, they historically were entitled to a tax credit, known as the avoir fiscal. However, the Finance Act for 2004 (loi de finances pour 2004) has significantly modified the distribution tax regime and provided for the repeal of the avoir fiscal mechanism and the related précompte mechanism, an equalization tax payable by French corporations in respect of certain amounts distributed. As a result, under French domestic law, the avoir fiscal tax credit is no longer available for dividends paid after January 1, 2005 to individual shareholders and corporate shareholders may not use the avoir fiscal tax credit to pay corporation tax as from January 1, 2005. Besides, no précompte will be payable in respect of distributions made as from January 1, 2005. However, under the new distribution tax regime, French individual residents are entitled to a tax credit equal to 50% of the dividend received as from January 1, 2005, (the “50% Tax Credit”). The 50% Tax Credit is capped at €230 for married couples and for members of a civil union agreement (pacte civil de solidarité as defined under Article 515-1 of the French Civil Code) who are subject to joint taxation and €115 for single persons, widows or widowers, divorcees or married persons subject to separate taxation. Dividends distributed in 2004 For the purposes of this sub-section, the term dividends means distributions which have the characteristics of dividends within the meaning of the French administrative instruction 4-J-2-01 dated December 14, 2001. 159 Table of Contents According to that instruction, the avoir fiscal is exclusively attached to distributions that are duly made pursuant to a decision of the competent corporate bodies in accordance with the French laws and regulations applicable to dividend distributions. Only those distributions could give rise, as the case may be, to a payment of the précompte. The précompte was an equalization tax that was payable by a French corporation in respect of any amounts distributed as a dividend out of profits which: • have not been subject to French corporate income tax at the standard corporate income tax rate, • are distributed from the long-term capital gains reserve, or • were earned and taxed more than five years before the distribution, The précompte was generally equal to 50% of the net dividend distributed. The amount of any précompte would be charged to shareholders’ equity as part of the dividend distribution. Under French domestic law, including the provisions of the Finance Act for 2004 (loi de finances pour 2004): • French individual residents were entitled to a tax credit, known as the avoir fiscal, equal to 50% of the dividend paid in cash or in the form of shares by a French corporation; • French non-individual residents were generally entitled to an avoir fiscal equal to 10% of the dividend (plus an additional payment equal to 80% of any précompte actually paid in cash. Under French domestic law, shareholders who are not resident in France were not eligible for the avoir fiscal. However, under the Treaty, an eligible U.S. holder who received dividends paid by a French company (such as Air France-KLM) that, if received by a resident of France, would entitle such U.S. holder to an avoir fiscal was generally entitled to a payment from the French Treasury that is the equivalent of an avoir fiscal. That payment was made by the French Treasury not earlier than the January 15 following the close of the calendar year in which the related dividend is paid, and only after receipt by the French tax administration of a claim for that payment in accordance with the procedures described below under the section “Taxation of Dividends – Procedure to Obtain Treaty Benefits - Refund of the avoir fiscal or précompte in respect of dividends paid in 2004”. The following are certain limitations to the availability of the avoir fiscal under the Treaty: • An avoir fiscal is generally only granted if the eligible U.S. holder is subject to U.S. federal income tax on both the dividend and the avoir fiscal. • A partnership or a trust (other than a pension trust, a real estate investment trust or a real estate mortgage investment conduit), in its capacity as an eligible U.S. holder, is entitled to an avoir fiscal only to the extent that its partners, beneficiaries or grantors, as applicable, are themselves eligible U.S. holders (other than a regulated investment company) and are themselves subject to U.S. federal income tax on their respective shares of both the dividend and the avoir fiscal. • The eligible U.S. holder, where required by the French tax administration, must show that he or she is the beneficial owner of the dividends received from Air France-KLM and that the holding of the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs does not have as one of its principal purposes to allow another person to take advantage of the grant of an avoir fiscal under the Treaty. 160 Table of Contents • If the eligible U.S. holder is a regulated investment company, it should not own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of our capital. This rule only applies if less than 20% of the shares of the regulated investment company are beneficially owned by persons who are neither citizens nor residents of the United States under the Treaty. In addition, under the Treaty, an eligible U.S. holder that is not entitled to the refund of the avoir fiscal generally may obtain from the French tax authorities a refund of any précompte paid by us with respect to the dividends distributed, subject to the 15% French withholding tax applicable to dividends. The French tax authorities have published an administrative instruction 4-J-2-05 of April 28, 2005 commenting inter alia the possibility for shareholders who are not resident in France to benefit from the refund of the avoir fiscal or the précompte in respect of distributions made in 2004. According that instruction: • U.S. eligible individual holders are entitled under the Treaty to a payment from the French tax authorities equal to the avoir fiscal or, as the case may be, the précompte (less, in each case, a 15% withholding tax) in respect of dividends that we paid in 2004; and • U.S. eligible non-individual holders may be entitled to the refund of the avoir fiscal in respect of dividends that we paid in 2004 provided that such U.S. holders have included those dividends within the taxable profits of a fiscal year ended before January 1, 2005 and that the full amount of the U.S. federal income tax in respect of that fiscal year has been paid to the U.S. Treasury before January 1, 2005. Where such a holder is not entitled to that refund, it is generally entitled to the refund of the précompte that we may have paid in respect of those dividend distributions. In each case, those payments are subject to the 15% withholding tax. Dividends distributed in 2005 Under French domestic law, shareholders who are not resident in France are not eligible for the 50% Tax Credit. However, under the Treaty, an eligible individual U.S. holder receiving dividends from Air France-KLM should be able to receive a payment from the French Treasury corresponding to the 50% Tax Credit he or she would have been entitled to if he or she had been a resident of France. The same limitations as applicable to the transfer of the avoir fiscal, as described above, should be applicable and the payment of the 50% Tax Credit should be subject to the 15% dividend withholding tax. Investors should note that the French tax authorities have not yet published any guideline confirming the possibility for an eligible U.S. holders to receive such a payment or the procedure to be followed. U.S. non-individual holders should not be entitled to the refund of the 50% Tax Credit in respect of dividends that we may pay. No avoir fiscal or précompte will be refunded in respect of distributions made as from January 1, 2005. Taxation of Dividends – Procedure to Obtain Treaty Benefits Reduced withholding tax rate Eligible U.S. holders must follow certain procedures in order to be eligible for the 15% dividend withholding tax under the Treaty. An eligible U.S. holder who wishes to obtain a reduced withholding rate at source must: • complete a certificate (the “Certificate”), as provided under Schedule III to the administrative instruction 4 J-1-05 of February 14, 2005, 161 Table of Contents • have it certified by the U.S. financial institution that is responsible for the administration of the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs of that eligible U.S. holder, and • file the Certificate with Air France-KLM or the French person in charge of the payment of dividends on the Air France-KLM shares, such as the French paying agent, in the case of Air France-KLM shares, or with the depositary in the case of Air France-KLM ADSs, before the date of payment of the relevant dividend. An eligible U.S. holder that is a regulated investment company must also be identified as such on a list provided annually by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. However, if an eligible U.S. holder is not able to complete, have certified and file the Certificate before the date of payment of the dividend, that eligible U.S. holder may still benefit from the reduced 15% withholding tax rate if the U.S. financial institution that is responsible for the administration of that holder’s Air France-KLM shares or ADSs provides us or the French paying agent with certain information with respect to that eligible U.S. holder and his or her holding of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs before the date of payment of the relevant dividend. If either of the procedures described above has not been followed before a dividend payment date or is not available to an eligible U.S. holder, we or the French paying agent will withhold tax from the dividend at the normal French rate of 25%, and the eligible U.S. holder will be entitled to claim a refund of the excess withholding tax by filing a form RF1 A E.U. no. 5052 with the depositary or the French paying agent early enough to enable them to forward that application to the French tax administration before December 31 of the year following the calendar year in which the related dividend was paid. Refund of the avoir fiscal or précompte in respect of dividends paid in 2004 Eligible U.S. holders must follow certain procedures in order to receive, where applicable, a refund of the avoir fiscal or précompte (less the 15% withholding tax on that amount) under the Treaty. An eligible U.S. holder who wishes to receive a refund of the avoir fiscal must claim a refund of the excess withholding tax by having a form RF1 A E.U. no. 5052 entitled “Application for Refund” certified by the U.S. financial institution that is responsible for the administration of the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs of that eligible U.S. holder, and file it with Air France-KLM or the French person in charge of the payment of dividends on the Air France-KLM shares, such as the French paying agent, in the case of Air France-KLM shares, or with the depositary in the case of Air France-KLM ADSs early enough to enable them to forward that application to the French tax administration before December 31, 2004. In addition, such an eligible U.S. holder will need to provide additional documents evidencing that the specific conditions regarding the payment of U.S. federal income tax in 2004 and, as described above under section “Taxation of Dividends – Tax Credit”, are fulfilled. An eligible U.S. holder entitled to the refund of the précompte in respect of dividends paid in 2004 must have applied for the refund by filing a French Treasury form RF 1 B E.U. no. 5053 before December 31, 2004. The depositary will provide to all U.S. holders of Air France-KLM ADSs the applications or certificates, together with instructions, and will arrange for the filing with the French tax authorities of all applications and certificates completed by U.S. holders of Air France-KLM ADSs and returned to the depositary in sufficient time to effect the filing. The Certificate, forms RF 1 A E.U. no. 5052 and RF 1 B E.U. no. 5053 and their respective instructions are available at the centre des impôts des non-résidents (9, rue d’Uzès, 75094 Paris Cedex 2, France). The French tax authorities have not yet issued any guidance in respect of the refund of the 50% Tax Credit to individuals who are not French resident for tax purposes. It is expected that the procedure to obtain such a refund would imply cumbersome filing requirements. 162 Table of Contents Special Rules for Certain Tax-Exempt Shareholders Under the Treaty, special rules apply to: • any eligible pension fund, which is a tax-exempt entity established in, and sponsored or established by a resident of, the United States, the exclusive purpose of which is to provide retirement or employee benefits and which does not own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of our capital, • any eligible not-for-profit organization, which is a tax-exempt entity organized in the United States, the use of whose assets is limited under U.S. federal or state laws, both currently and upon liquidation, to the accomplishment of the purposes that serve as the basis of its exemption from income taxation in the United States and which does not own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of our capital, and • any individual holding shares in a retirement plan, meaning an individual who is a resident of the United States under the Treaty and who owns Air France-KLM shares or ADSs through an individual retirement account, a Keogh plan or any similar arrangement and who does not own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of our capital. (Eligible pension funds, eligible not-for-profit organizations and individuals holding shares in a retirement plan are referred to collectively as eligible tax-exempt holders.) Eligible tax-exempt holders are generally entitled under the Treaty to a reduced withholding tax rate of 15% on dividends distributed by us, but they are not entitled to the refund of the avoir fiscal or précompte that may be attached to distributions made in 2004. Eligible tax-exempt holders generally must follow the procedures set forth above under “—Taxation of Dividends—Procedure to Obtain Treaty Benefits—Reduced withholding tax rate”. Certain eligible tax-exempt holders may also be required to provide written evidence certified by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service of their status under U.S. federal income tax law. As a consequence, eligible tax-exempt holders are urged to contact their own tax advisors with respect to the procedures to be followed to obtain Treaty benefits. Tax on Sale or Redemption of Air France-KLM Shares or ADSs and Air France-KLM Warrants or ADWs Under the Treaty, no French tax is levied on any capital gain derived from the sale of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, and/or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs by a U.S. holder who: • is a resident of the United States under the Treaty, • is entitled to Treaty benefits under the limitation on benefits provisions of Article 30 of the Treaty, and • does not have a permanent establishment in France to which the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, and/or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs are attributable or, in the case of an individual, who does not maintain a fixed base in France to which the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, and/or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs are effectively connected. Under French domestic tax law, any gain realized by a shareholder on a redemption of Air France-KLM shares by Air France-KLM generally will be treated as a dividend and will be subject to French dividend withholding tax as described above under “—Taxation of Dividends—Withholding Tax”, unless all our accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for French tax purposes, have been distributed to our shareholders before such redemption. French Transfer and Stamp Taxes Transfers of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, and/or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs will not be subject to French transfer taxes unless, in the case of Air France-KLM shares and/or ADSs, the transfer is 163 Table of Contents effected by means of a written agreement that is executed or enforced in France. Should such written agreement be executed or enforced in France, it would be subject to transfer taxes at the rate of 1% (this rate being increased to 1.1% for transactions entered into as from January 1, 2006), up to a maximum of €3,049 per transaction where entered into until December 31, 2005, and €4,000 per transfer for transactions entered into thereafter. In certain cases, a stock exchange stamp tax may also be payable. French Estate, Gift and Wealth Taxes Transfers of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, and/or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs by gift by, or by reason of death of, a U.S. holder that would be subject to French gift or inheritance tax under French domestic tax law will not be subject to such French tax by reason of the Convention between the United States of America and the French Republic for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Estates, Inheritances and Gifts, dated November 24, 1978 unless: • the donor or decedent is domiciled in France within the meaning of that Convention at the time of making the gift, or the time of his or her death, or • the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs, and/or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs were used in, or held for use in, the conduct of business through a permanent establishment or a fixed base in France. Under French tax law and the Treaty, the French wealth tax generally does not apply to U.S. holders that are not individuals or in the case of natural persons, who own alone or with their parents, directly or indirectly, Air France-KLM shares or ADSs representing the right to less than 25% of Air France-KLM’s profits. U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations The following describes the material U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs and Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs by a U.S. holder (as defined above in “—French Tax Considerations”). This discussion deals only with U.S. holders that hold Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs as capital assets. The discussion does not cover all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be relevant to, or the actual tax effect that any of the matters described herein will have on, the acquisition, ownership or disposition of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs by particular investors, and does not address state, local, foreign or other tax laws. In particular, this summary does not address tax considerations applicable to investors that currently or during the past five years own or have owned directly, or indirectly by attribution, 10% or more of our voting stock, nor does this summary discuss all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to certain types of investors subject to special treatment under the U.S. federal income tax laws (such as financial institutions, insurance companies, investors liable for the alternative minimum tax, individual retirement accounts and other tax-deferred accounts, tax-exempt organizations, dealers in securities or currencies, investors that will hold the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs as part of straddles, hedging transactions or conversion transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes or investors whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar). Moreover, this description does not address the U.S. federal estate and gift tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs. The U.S. federal income tax treatment of a partner in a partnership that holds Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs will depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Prospective purchasers that are partnerships should consult their tax advisers concerning the U.S. federal income tax consequences to their partners of the acquisition, ownership and disposition of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs by the partnership. This discussion assumes that Air France-KLM is not a passive foreign investment company (a PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which we believe to be the case. Our possible status as a PFIC must be determined annually and therefore may be subject to change. If we were to be a PFIC in any year, materially adverse consequences could result to U.S. holders. 164 Table of Contents The summary is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, as well as on the income tax treaty between the United States and France (the “Treaty”), all as currently in effect and all subject to change at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. The discussion of U.S. federal income tax consequences set forth below is not tax advice. All prospective purchasers should consult their tax advisors as to the particular tax consequences to them of owning the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs, including their eligibility for the benefits of the Treaty, the applicability and effect of state, local, foreign and other tax laws and possible changes in tax law. U.S. Holders of ADSs For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. holder of ADSs will be treated as the owner of the corresponding number of Air France-KLM ordinary shares held by the depositary, and references herein to Air France-KLM shares refer also to the ADSs representing the Air France-KLM shares. Dividends on Shares or ADSs General Distributions (including the amount of any avoir fiscal, précompte, or the 50% Tax Credit) paid by us out of current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes), before reduction for any French withholding tax paid by us with respect thereto, will generally be taxable to a U.S. holder as foreign source dividend income, and will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to corporations. Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the U.S. holder’s basis in the shares and thereafter as capital gain. For taxable years beginning before 2009, dividends paid by us will be taxable to a non-corporate U.S. holder at the special reduced rate normally applicable to capital gains, provided the shares are readily tradable on a U.S. securities market or we qualify for the benefits of the Treaty. A U.S. holder will be eligible for this reduced rate only if it has held the shares for more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date. Foreign Currency Dividends Dividends on Air France-KLM shares paid in euro will be included in income in a U.S. dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate in effect on the day the dividends are received by the U.S. Holder or, in the case of ADSs, by the depositary, regardless of whether the euro are converted into U.S. dollars at that time. If dividends received in euro are converted into U.S. dollars on the day they are received, the U.S. holder generally will not be required to recognize foreign currency gain or loss in respect of the dividend income. Effect of French Withholding Taxes As discussed above in “—French Tax Consequences of Owning and Holding Air France-KLM Shares and ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs—Taxation of Dividends—Withholding Tax”, U.S. holders will be subject to French withholding taxes on dividends and, if applicable, payments of related avoir fiscal, précompte, or the 50% Tax Credit. Under the Treaty, the rate of withholding tax applicable to U.S. holders that are eligible for benefits under the Treaty (eligible U.S. holders) is reduced to a maximum of 15%. For the procedure for claiming treaty benefits, please see “French Tax Consequences of Owning and Holding Air France-KLM Shares or ADSs, or Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs—Taxation of Dividends—Procedure to Obtain Treaty Benefits”. 165 Table of Contents A U.S. holder will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against its U.S. federal income tax liability, or a deduction in computing its U.S. federal taxable income, for any French tax withheld from a dividend or payment of avoir fiscal, précompte, or the 50% Tax Credit. Eligible U.S. holders will not be entitled to a foreign tax credit for the amount of any French taxes withheld in excess of the 15% maximum rate, and with respect to which the holder can obtain a refund from the French taxing authorities. For purposes of the foreign tax credit limitation, foreign source income is classified in one of several baskets, and the credit for foreign taxes on income in any basket is limited to U.S. federal income tax allocable to that income. Dividends paid by us generally will constitute foreign source income in the passive income basket. If a U.S. holder receives a dividend from us that qualifies for the reduced rate described above under “Dividends on Shares of ADSs-General”, the amount of the dividend taken into account in calculating the foreign tax credit limitation will be limited to the gross amount of the dividend, multiplied by the reduced rate divided by the highest rate of tax normally applicable to dividends. In certain circumstances, a U.S. holder may be unable to claim foreign tax credits (and may instead be allowed deductions) for foreign taxes imposed on a dividend if the U.S. holder has not held the shares for at least 16 days in the 31-day period beginning 15 days before the ex-dividend date. A U.S. holder should read the Section entitled “French Taxation—Taxation of Dividends—Tax Credit for a description of the avoir fiscal, précompte, the repeal of these provisions and the holder’s eligibility for the 50% Tax Credit. For taxable years beginning before 2005, U.S. Holders that are accrual basis taxpayers must translate French taxes into U.S. dollars at a rate equal to the average exchange rate for the taxable year in which the taxes accrue, while all U.S. Holders must translate taxable dividend income into U.S. dollars at the spot rate on the date received. This difference in exchange rates may reduce the U.S. dollar value of the credits for French taxes relative to the U.S. Holder’s U.S. federal income tax liability attributable to a dividend. However, for taxable years beginning after 2004, U.S. Holders that are accrual basis taxpayers may elect to translate French taxes into U.S. dollars using the exchange rate in effect on the day the taxes were paid. Any such election will apply for the taxable year in which it is made and all subsequent taxable years, unless revoked with the consent of the IRS. Prospective purchasers should consult their tax advisers concerning the foreign tax credit implications of the payment of French taxes and receiving a dividend from us that is eligible for the special reduced rate described above under “Dividends on Shares or ADSs-General”. Exchange of Air France-KLM ADSs for Shares In the case of a U.S. holder that elects to withdraw shares from the deposit arrangement, no gain or loss will be recognized upon the exchange of Air France-KLM ADSs for the U.S. holder’s proportionate interest in shares. A U.S. holder’s tax basis in the withdrawn shares will be the same as the U.S. holder’s tax basis in the Air France-KLM ADSs surrendered, and the holding period of the shares will include the holding period of the Air France-KLM ADSs. Sale or Other Disposition of Air France-KLM Shares or ADSs Upon a sale or other disposition of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs (other than an exchange of ADSs for shares), a U.S. holder generally will recognize capital gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes equal to the difference, if any, between the amount realized on the sale or other disposition and the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if the U.S. holder’s holding period in the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs exceeds one year. However, in the case of Air France-KLM shares or ADSs regardless of a U.S. holder’s actual holding period, any loss will be long-term capital loss to the extent the U.S. holder receives a dividend that qualifies for the reduced rate described above under “Dividends on Shares or ADSs–General”, and exceeds 10% of its basis in the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs. For a non-corporate U.S. holder, the maximum long-term capital gains rate for taxable years that begin before 2009 is 15%. Any gain or loss will generally be U.S. source. 166 Table of Contents Exercise, Lapse or Sale or Other Disposition of Air France-KLM Warrants or ADWs Upon exercise of an Air France-KLM warrant or ADW, a U.S. holder will not recognize any gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A U.S. holder’s holding period for the Air France-KLM shares or ADSs received upon exercise of the Air France-KLM warrant or ADW generally will not include the period during which such U.S. holder owned the Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs. The U.S. federal income tax consequences of owning Air France-KLM shares or ADSs acquired pursuant to the exercise of Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs will generally be as described above. If a U.S. holder’s Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs lapse, then the U.S. holder will generally be entitled to a capital loss equal to the U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs. The sale, exchange or other disposition of an Air France-KLM warrant or ADW will generally result in the recognition of capital gain or loss to a U.S. holder in an amount equal to the difference between the amount realized and such U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in the Air France-KLM warrant or ADW. This capital gain or loss will be long-term capital gain or loss if the U.S. holder’s holding period in Air France-KLM warrants or ADWs exceeds one year. A U.S. holder’s adjusted tax basis in an Air France-KLM warrant or an ADW will generally be equal to the cost of the Air France-KLM warrant or ADW or, in the case of a holder that received the warrant or ADW pursuant to the exchange of KLM ordinary shares or KLM New York Registry Shares, the fair market value of such warrant or ADW at the time of the exchange. Backup Withholding and Information Reporting Payments of dividends and other proceeds with respect to Air France-KLM shares and ADSs will be reported to the IRS and to the U.S. Holder as may be required under applicable regulations. Backup withholding may apply to these payments if the U.S. Holder fails to provide an accurate taxpayer identification number or certification of exempt status or fails to report all interest and dividends required to be shown on its U.S. federal income tax returns. Certain U.S. holders (including, among others, corporations) are not subject to backup withholding. Payments of dividends and other proceeds with respect to Air France-KLM shares and ADSs to a Non-U.S. holder will not be subject to backup withholding tax and information reporting requirements if appropriate certification (Form W-8BEN or some other appropriate form) is provided by the holder to the payor and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the certificate is false. All holders should consult their tax advisors as to their qualification for exemption from backup withholding and the procedure for obtaining an exemption. Documents on Display Our files annual and special reports and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any reports or other information on file at the SEC’s public reference room at the following location: Public Reference Room 450 Fifth Street, N.W. Room 1024 Washington, D.C. 20549 Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. The SEC filings are also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services. Our SEC filings may also be obtained electronically via the EDGAR system on the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 167 Table of Contents Statement on Corporate Governance as Required by Section 303A-11 of the New York Stock Exchange’s Listed Company Manual The following is a brief explanation of the principal ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules applicable to U.S. domestic companies listed on the NYSE. Air France-KLM has securities publicly listed and traded on markets in France (Euronext Paris), in the Netherlands (Euronext Amsterdam) and in the United States (the NYSE). Air France-KLM’s Board of Directors currently comprises 16 members. Contrary to the laws applicable to U.S. companies, the term “independent director” does not have a legal definition under French law. The Bouton Report of 2003 on Corporate Governance defines a non-executive director as a director who “has no relations of any kind with the Air France-KLM group or its management, which could impede the free exercise of his/her judgment.” The Board of Directors has not yet designated as non-executive directors the directors who meet the criteria of the Bouton Report, although we believe that six of the current 16 directors meet the criteria of the Bouton Report. The French State currently has the right to appoint three directors to our board of directors. The French State is entitled to designate a number of candidates for our board of directors in proportion to its shareholding in Air France-KLM, (which may not be lower than two members) provided it holds at least 10% of our share capital. The Air France-KLM board of directors also includes two directors proposed by the KLM supervisory board and the State of the Netherlands is entitled to propose a director for so long as the French State is represented on our board. Finally, under the agreements entered into as part of the Air France-Alitalia alliance, Alititalia has the right to propose one representative to our board. Air France-KLM has several specialized committees to support the decision-making process of the board of directors, including a remuneration and appointments committee each consisting of three members, an audit committee consisting of five members (including one director appointed by the French State) and a strategy committee consisting of seven members (including two directors appointed by the French State). Under French law, board committees are advisory only, while under the NYSE rules, specific committees are vested with certain powers that in France remain with the board. Under French corporate law, shareholders must appoint Air France-KLM’s auditors at annual shareholder meetings. Air France shareholders receive the proposals for such appointments from the board of directors, who in turn receive recommendations from the audit committee. We believe that the requirements of French law, including the requirement that two statutory auditors must be appointed by the shareholders, achieve the NYSE’s objectives for auditor independence. In order to emphasize our commitment to promoting transparency and compliance with rules and regulations, and in line with the NYSE Listed Company Manual, we have adopted a written Code of Ethics applicable to the Chief Executive Officer, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Vice President – Finance and Accounting Officer as well as a Compliance Code for market transactions applicable to all directors. Following discussion at its meeting on June 22, 2005, our board of directors has initiated a self-assessment of its operations. Air France-KLM is currently in the process of determining its final management structure. It is contemplated that for an interim period, key senior executive positions, including chief financial officer and investor relations officer will be occupied by full time or part time secondments of Air France or KLM employees to Air France-KLM. For further details on the current management structure of Air France-KLM, see “Item 6: Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employees—Employees of Air France-KLM”. 168 Table of Contents Item 11: QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk General We are inevitably exposed to price and currency fluctuations given the international nature of our business. We hedge our expected exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates on a case-by-case basis and seek to hedge a significant part of our expected exposure to fluctuation in fuel prices. The decision to hedge is taken by our management on a centralized basis based on the nature and significance of the potential risks involved. Our objective with respect to hedging transactions is to safeguard budgeted margins. We have defined strict policies and procedures to measure, manage and monitor our market risk exposures. We have instituted management rules based on a segregation of operations, financial and administrative control and risk measurement. We have also instituted, for all operations managed at corporate level, an integrated system that permits real time monitoring of hedging strategies. As part of our treasury and fuel risk management program, we selectively use derivative financial and commodity instruments in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in market rates and prices. We use derivatives only for the purposes of hedging identified exposures and do not invest in derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The instruments used include swaps, forward contracts, and options in the currency, interest rate and fuel markets. Exchange Rate Risk We seek to reduce our foreign exchange exposure arising from: • Current Operations Although our reporting currency is the euro, part of our cash flow is denominated in other currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the British pound sterling and the Swiss franc. Our commercial activities also generate and incur income and expenses in foreign currency. Our policy is to hedge against exchange risks relating to forecast cash surpluses or shortfalls in various currencies (e.g. the U.S. dollar, the Japanese yen, the British pound and non-euro European currencies). Hedging takes the form of forward sales or purchases and/or option-based strategies. • Acquisitions of Flight Equipment Capital expenditure for flight equipment is denominated in U.S. dollars. We hedge on the basis of projected fluctuations in the U.S. dollar via forward sales and purchases and/or option-based strategies. • Long-Term Debt and Capital Leases A number of loans are denominated in foreign currency so as to diversify sources of funding and take into account cash surpluses generated in various currencies. In order to safeguard against the risk of exchange rate fluctuations on debt and capital leases currency swaps are used. This is a micro-hedging mechanism matched specifically to the borrowing to which it relates. 169 Table of Contents The table below provides information about Air France-KLM’s foreign exchange derivatives as at March 31, 2005 and presents such information in euro equivalents. The table presents the notional amounts by contractual maturity dates. These notional amounts are generally used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. At March 31, 2005 Maturities of notional contract values 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 > 5 years Total FairValue (in € millions) Foreign Exchange Derivatives Forward contract purchases U.S. dollar (USD) 1,020 450 333 337 123 0 2,263 (178.8 ) Forward contract sales British pound (GBP) 183 0 0 0 0 0 183 (1.0 ) Japanese yen (JPY) 76 0 0 0 0 0 76 1.6 Swiss franc (CHF) 36 0 0 0 0 0 36 (0.4 ) Other 162 0 0 0 0 0 162 0.5 Total 457 0 0 0 0 0 457 0.7 Currency options US dollar (USD) 863 0 0 0 0 0 863 (17.6 ) British pound (GBP) 66 0 0 0 0 0 66 (0.3 ) Japanese yen (JPY) 58 0 0 0 0 0 58 10.4 Swiss Franc (CHF) 22 0 0 0 0 0 22 1.1 Total 1,009 0 0 0 0 0 1,009 (6.4 ) Currency swaps Japanese yen (JPY) 234 0 0 0 0 0 234 (36.0 ) Cross interest currency swaps Japanese yen (JPY) 61 195 278 121 77 282 1,014 7.4 Interest Rate Risk To manage interest rate risk on short-term and long-term borrowings, we use instruments with certain nominal and fair values as of the balance sheet dates. The table below provides information about our derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates, including interest rate swaps and debt obligations. For debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows by expected maturity dates and related weighted average interest rates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts by contractual maturity dates and related weighted average fixed interest rates. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contract. Weighted average floating rates are based on effective rates at March 31, 2005. At maturity March 31, 2005 Maturities of notional contract values AverageRate 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 > 5years Total FairValue (in € millions) Liabilities Long-term debt 4.3 % 1,056 1,087 983 849 573 3,457 8,005 8,153 Fixed rate portion 6.6 % 388 516 537 354 198 1,633 3,626 3,775 Floating rate portion 2.6 % 668 571 446 495 375 1,824 4,379 4,379 Short-term borrowings 2.1 % 263 — — — — — 263 263 170 Table of Contents At maturity March 31, 2005 Maturities of notional contract values AverageRate 2006 2007 2008 2008 2010 > 5years Total FairValue(1) (in € millions) Interest rate swaps Pay fixed rate (euro) 4.6 % 197 317 141 432 104 702 1,894 (84 ) Receive fixed rate (euro) 6.3 % 31 77 48 186 26 178 546 71 Pay variable rate / Receive variable rate (euro) 2.5 % 0 0 0 0 0 216 216 (44 ) Interest Rate Options Collars (euro) N/A 7 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 Note: (1) The fair values of the swaps have been calculated using the marked-to-market value provided by the banks. Interest rate swaps have different objectives: • Hedging price risk relating to fixed-rate short- and long-term debt and capital leases By contracting for a fixed-rate debt, we are exposed to an opportunity risk if the rate falls. Given the current position of market rates in comparison with fixed contractual rates on certain of its short- and long-term debt and capital leases, we have entered into a number of fixed- to floating-rate swaps; and • Hedging of cash flow risk relating to floating-rate short- and long-term debt and capital leases We have sought to fix the rate of certain floating-rate debt and thus have entered into a number of floating- to fixed-rate swaps. Commodity Risk – Fuel Prices The impact of fuel price changes on us and our competitors is dependent upon various factors, including hedging strategies. We have a fuel hedging program in which we enter into jet fuel, heating oil and crude swap and option contracts to protect against increases in jet fuel prices. These instruments generally have maturity of up to 36 months. The table below provides information about Air France-KLM’s swaps and options to manage commodity risks as at March 31, 2005. At March 31, 2005 Maturingbefore oneyear Maturingafter one year Total Fair Value (in € millions) Swaps 1,179 533 1,712 387 Options 916 1,658 2,574 796 Insurance Risk Air France has a civil liability insurance policy on behalf of itself and its French and European airline subsidiaries, covering damage to aircraft, liability for passengers and general liability to third parties resulting from its air transport activities. The policy covers liability up to a maximum of $1.5 billion. Société Air France and its French subsidiaries have also subscribed for additional insurance coverage for liability to third parties up to $500 million and for specific guarantees for damage caused to third parties resulting from war or terrorist acts in the amount of $1 billion. 171 Table of Contents Finally, as part of its risk management strategy, Air France has insured its industrial sites, equipment and ancillary air transport activities for amounts based on coverage levels available in the market and its ability to quantify risks reasonably. Air France also has a number of specific or local policies as required by regulations in various countries in which it maintains a representative office. KLM has a civil liability insurance policy on behalf of itself and its airline subsidiaries, covering damage to aircraft, liability for passengers and general liability to third parties resulting from its air transport activities The policy covers civil liability up to a maximum of $1.5 billion. KLM has also subscribed for additional insurance coverage for civil liability up to an additional $500 million beyond such amount. Moreover, as part of its risk management and financing policy, KLM has insured its industrial sites, equipment and ancillary air transport activities for amounts based on coverage levels available in the market and its ability to quantify risks reasonably. Counterparty Risk We are exposed to credit risk in the event of a counterparty’s default. We attempt to limit our exposure to counterparty risk by rigorously selecting the counterparties with which we trade, through regularly monitoring the ratings assigned by credit rating agencies as well as the nature and maturity of operations with them. We believe we have no material concentration of risk with any counterparty and do not anticipate any third party default that might have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. 172 Table of Contents Item 12: DESCRIPTION OF SECURITIES OTHER THAN EQUITY SECURITIES Not applicable. 173 Table of Contents Item 13: DEFAULTS, DIVIDEND ARREARAGES AND DELINQUENCIES Not applicable. 174 Table of Contents Item 14: MATERIAL MODIFICATIONS TO THE RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS AND USE OF PROCEEDS Not applicable. 175 Table of Contents Item 15: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES (a) We have carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer (who is also the chief financial officer of Air France), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Air France-KLM’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this annual report. Based upon that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of March 31, 2005 Air France’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by Air France-KLM in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. (b) Not applicable for this annual report, which covers a fiscal year ended prior to July 15, 2006. (c) Not applicable for this annual report, which covers a fiscal year ended prior to July 15, 2006. Other than as disclosed below, there has been no change in Air France-KLM’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the financial year ended March 31, 2005 that has materially affected Air France-KLM’s or is reasonably likely to materially affect Air France-KLM’s internal control over financial reporting. In the course of implementing IFRS, which we are required to follow in France as of April 1, 2005 for purpose of satisfying French regulatory requirements, we identified an error in the financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP which impacts the years ended March 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 (including the April 1, 2001 opening balance sheet). As a result, we determined that it was necessary to restate our previously issued U.S. GAAP financial information. However, this restatement did not have any impact on the French GAAP financial statements. The restatement relates to the accounting for deferred taxes related to two perpetual loans contracted on 1989 and 1992, respectively, and that were not accounted for in accordance with SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. For the main impact of the restatement on net income and shareholders’ equity, see note 35 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. We believe that these errors relate to the misapplication of very technical accounting principles. In relation to the errors regarding our U.S. GAAP financial information, we have strengthened our corporate accounting department and dedicated employees with relevant expertise to enhance the control relating to our U.S. GAAP financial reporting process. On April 20, 2005, Air France-KLM formed a disclosure committee which assists our chairman of the board and chief executive officer and chief financial officer (who is also the chief financial officer of Air France) in ensuring that the Air France-KLM complies with its disclosure obligations to investors, the public, regulatory authorities and relevant securities markets. Specifically, the disclosure committee coordinates the collection and review of information included in reports filed with stock exchange and securities regulatory authorities, organizes periodic evaluations of the effectiveness of Air France-KLM’s disclosure controls and procedures and proposes corrective measures to remedy any deficiencies that might become apparent. In order to meet new requirements under French law and the additional requirements of the rules implemented under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a new group internal control function has been created within Air France-KLM to manage and coordinate internal control procedures at both Air France and KLM. Pursuant to the French Financial Security Act of August 1, 2003 (loi de sécurité financière), the chairman of the board of directors of Air France-KLM is required to deliver a special report to the general shareholders’ meeting regarding corporate governance practices, the status of the internal control procedures implemented by Air France-KLM and the restrictions that the Air France-KLM board of directors has placed on the powers granted to the chief executive officer. The French report is not the equivalent of the report we will be required to file under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning with the annual report on Form 20-F to be filed for the year ending March 31, 2007. 176 Table of Contents Item 16: [Reserved] Item 16A: AUDIT COMMITTEE FINANCIAL EXPERT The Board of Directors has determined that Pierre Richard, Floris Maljers and Jean-François Dehecq are each an “audit committee financial expert” as defined in the instructions to Item 16A of Form 20-F. Item 16B: CODE OF ETHICS We have a code of ethics that applies to our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer. A copy of our code of ethics is available on our website at www.airfranceklm-finance.com. Item 16C: PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES Deloitte & Associés (formerly Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu) and KPMG S.A. have served as Air France-KLM’s independent registered Public Accounting firms for each of the financial years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2005, for which audited financial statements appear in this annual report. The following table presents the aggregate fees for professional services rendered by Deloitte & Associés and KPMG S.A. for each of the financial years ended March 31, 2005, and March 31, 2004: 2005 2004 Deloitte &Associés KPMG Deloitte &Associés KPMG Audit Fees(1) 2,815 5,138 4,053 3,889 Audit-Related Fees(2) 767 984 223 143 Tax Fees(3) — 515 13 — All Other Fees — — — — Total 3,582 6,637 4,289 4,032 Notes: (1) In 2005, audit fees consist of (i) fees for assurance and related services to the performance of the audit or limited review of the financial statements conducted in accordance with auditing standards applicable in France for the year ended March 31, 2005 and (ii) fees for assurance and related services to the performance of the audit or review of financial statements conducted in accordance with auditing standards applicable in the United States of America for the year ended March 31, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002 in connection with the financial statements to be included in an annual report on Form 20-F. (2) As of March 31, 2005 and 2004, audit related fees comprised primarily fees incurred in connection with internal control reviews carried out in connection with French law requirements (the “Loi de Sécurité financière”) and in connection with the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). (3) Tax Fees include services rendered in connection with tax compliance service work. Audit Committee Pre-approval Policies and Procedures Our audit committee is responsible, to the extent permitted by French law, for reviewing our consolidated financial statements, principal financial risks, the results and scope of the internal audit, as well as reviewing the audit program, the conclusions and the recommendations of the statutory auditors. The audit committee also supervises the procedures designed to ensure compliance with stock exchange regulations. On September 21, 2004, our audit committee adopted a policy for the approval and tracking of auditor services which entered into effectiveness on September 30, 2004. This policy identifies the guiding principles that must be considered by the audit committee in approving services to ensure that the independent auditor’s independence is not impaired; describes the audit, audit related, tax and other non-audit services that may and may not be provided; and sets forth the pre-approval requirements for all permitted services. The policy provides for general pre-approval of certain audit-related services up to €150,000 and certain tax services up to €50,000. Specific pre-approval is required for engagements exceeding that amount and for all other permitted services. A copy of this policy is available on our website at www.airfranceklm-finance.com. 177 Table of Contents Item 16D: EXEMPTIONS FROM THE LISTING STANDARDS FOR AUDIT COMMITTEES Not applicable. Item 16E: PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES BY THE ISSUER AND AFFILIATED PURCHASERS At our annual meeting of shareholders held on September 15, 2004, our shareholders approved a resolution authorizing us, for a period of 18 months, to purchase our shares and to hold up to 5% of our share capital. This resolution superseded a similar resolution approved by our shareholders at the annual shareholders’ meeting held in July 10, 2003. The current share repurchase program is described in the share repurchase program prospectus (note d’information), which received approval (visa) no. 04-737 of the AMF on August 27, 2004. As of March 31, 2005, we held directly 6,483,270 of our ordinary shares. A new resolution was approved by the annual shareholders’ meeting on July 12, 2005 to authorize us to purchase our shares and to hold up to 5% of our share capital. This share repurchase program is described in the share repurchase program prospectus (note d’information), which received approval (visa) no. 05-584 of the AMF on June 23, 2005. The following table sets forth information concerning our purchases of Air France–KLM ordinary shares for each month included in the period covered by this annual report: Total Numberof SharesPurchased Average PricePaid perShare in euro Total Numberof SharesPurchased asPart ofPubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms MaximumNumber ofShares thatMay Yet BePurchasedUnder thePlans orPrograms April 2004(1) 85,066 14.73 85,006 3,457,234 May 2004(1) 3,063,579 (2) 13.42 238,971 5,956,901 June 2004(1) 346,528 13.11 346,528 5,872,911 July 2004(1) 340,350 13.26 340,350 5,830,866 August 2004(1) 268,111 12.35 268,111 5,851,178 September 2004(1)(3) 183,357 13.17 183,357 5,844,104 October 2004(3) 134,412 12.85 134,412 5,879,911 November 2004(3) 186,561 14.09 186,561 5,879,911 December 2004(3) 169,186 14.12 169,186 6,982,413 Total (April – December 2004) 4,777,150 13.31 1,952,482 6,982,413 January 2005(3) 153,212 13.78 153,212 7,040,251 February 2005(3) 258,060 14.62 258,060 6,978,293 March 2005(3) 172,042 13.90 172,042 6,985,905 Total (January – March 2005) 583,314 14.19 583,314 6,985,905 Total 5,360,464 13.51 2,535,796 6,985,905 Notes: (1) Shares purchased as part of the 2003 program approved by the shareholders’ meeting on July 10, 2003. (2) Includes 2,824,608 KLM treasury shares held by KLM and converted in Air France-KLM shares at the time of the business combination. (3) Shares purchased as part of the 2004 program approved by the shareholders’ meeting on September 15, 2004. 178 Table of Contents Item 17: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Not applicable. 179 Table of Contents Item 18: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements appear on pages F-1 to F-237 and include: Consolidated Financial Statements of Air France-KLM Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms F-2 Consolidated Income Statements F-3 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-4 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity F-6 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-7 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F-8 Consolidated Financial Statements of Amadeus Global Travel Distribution, S.A. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 F-139 Independent Auditors’ Report F-140 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-141 Consolidated Statements of Income F-143 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-144 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity F-145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F-146 Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Amadeus Global Travel Distribution, S.A. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 F-191 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-192 Consolidated Statements of Income F-194 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-195 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity F-196 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F-197 180 Table of Contents Item 19: EXHIBITS The following instruments and documents are included as Exhibits to this annual report. ExhibitNumber Exhibit Description 1.1 English translation of Articles of Association of Air France-KLM, as amended to date. (1) 2.1 Form of American Depositary Receipt representing Air France-KLM’s American Depositary Shares, each evidencing the right to receive one Air France-KLM ordinary share (nominal value €8.50 per share).(2) 2.2 Form of ADS Deposit Agreement among Air France, Citibank N.A., as Depositary, and the Holders and Beneficial Owners from time to time of American Depositary Shares issued thereunder (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (a) to the Registration Statement on Form F-6 (SEC File no. 333-114197) filed by Air France with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 5, 2004).(3) 2.3 Form of American Depositary Warrant Receipt representing Air France-KLM’s warrants, each evidencing the right to receive one Air France-KLM warrant.(4) 2.4 Form of ADW Deposit Agreement among Air France, Citibank N.A., as Depositary, and the Holders and Beneficial Owners from time to time of American Depositary Warrants issued thereunder (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (a) to the Registration Statement on Form F-6/A (SEC File no. 333-114204) filed by Air France with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 27, 2004).(3) 4.1 Framework Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2003, by and between Air France and KLM.(3) 4.2 Purchase Agreement No. 337.0022/00 between Airbus Industrie and Air France relating to Model A330-200 aircraft (Air France has requested that the Commission grant confidential treatment for certain portions of this document).(3) 4.3 Purchase Agreement No. 337.0023/99 between Airbus Industrie and Air France relating to Model A318 aircraft (Air France has requested that the Commission grant confidential treatment for certain portions of this document).(3) 4.4 Purchase Agreement No. 337.0033/01 between Airbus Industrie and Air France relating to Model A380 aircraft (Air France has requested that the Commission grant confidential treatment for certain portions of this document).(3) 4.5 Purchase Agreement No. 1966 between The Boeing Company and Air France relating to Model 777-200/300 aircraft (Air France has requested that the Commission grant confidential treatment for certain portions of this document).(3) 4.6 Purchase Agreement No. 2344 between The Boeing Company and Air France relating to Model 747-400 aircraft (Air France has requested that the Commission grant confidential treatment for certain portions of this document).(3) 4.7 Form of Employment Agreement between KLM and members of its Board of Management.(5) 8.1 Subsidiaries of Air France (included in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements of Air France). 12.1 * Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 12.2 * Certification of Vice President - Finance. 13.1 * Certification of Chief Executive Officer. 13.2 * Certification of Vice President - Finance. Notes: * Filed herewith. (1) Incorporated by reference to the annual report on Form 20-F, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 29, 2004. (2) Incorporated by reference to the Rule 424(b)(3) filing filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 20, 2004 in respect of the registration statement on Form F-6 (Registration No. 333-114197). (3) Incorporated by reference to the registration statement on Form F-4 (Registration No. 333-114188), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 30, 2004. (4) Incorporated by reference to the Rule 424(b)(3) filing filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 20, 2004 in respect of the registration statement on Form F-6 (Registration No. 333-114204). (5) Incorporated by reference to KLM Royal Dutch Airlines’ annual report on Form 20-F for the financial year ended March 31, 2003, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 19, 2003. 181 Table of Contents SIGNATURES The registrant hereby certifies that it meets all of the requirements for filing on Form 20-F and that it has duly caused and authorized the undersigned to sign this annual report on its behalf. AIR FRANCE-KLM /s/ Jean-Cyril Spinetta Name: Jean-Cyril Spinetta Title: Chief Executive Officer Date: July 20, 2005 182 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Financial Statements of Air France - KLM Index to Consolidated Financial Statements F-1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms F-2 Consolidated Income Statements F-3 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-4 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity F-6 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-7 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F-8 Consolidated Financial Statements of Amadeus Global Travel Distribution, S.A. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 F-139 Independent Auditors’ Report F-140 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-141 Consolidated Statements of Income F-143 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-144 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity F-145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F-146 Unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements of Amadeus Global Travel Distribution, S.A. As of and for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 F-191 Consolidated Balance Sheets F-192 Consolidated Statements of Income F-194 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows F-195 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity F-196 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements F-197 F-1 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRMS To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Air France -KLM S.A.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Air France-KLM S.A.and its subsidiaries (the ‘‘Company’’) as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in stockholders’ equity, for the years then ended, all expressed in euros. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Air France-KLM S.A. and its subsidiaries as of March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in France. Without qualifying the conclusion expressed above, we draw attention to the following points: (i) the changes in accounting principles under French Generally Accepted Accounting Principles described in Note 2.1 to the consolidated financial statements that relate to: • the adoption as of April 1, 2002 of the approach by component for the recognition of costs related to major airframe inspections and engine maintenance; • the adoption as of April 1, 2002 of the percentage of completion method with respect to the revenue recognition of all long-term contracts whose term exceed six months; • the accounting for certain long-service awards following the recommendation of the French National Accounting Board (“Conseil National de la Comptabilité”) as of April 1, 2003. (ii) the change in accounting estimates described in Note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements that relates to the frequent flyers loyalty programs. (iii) Note 3.2 discloses the main assumptions used in KLM’s purchase price allocation and the fair value determination of its assets and liabilities at the acquisition date. Such note highlights that the Company is awaiting for some further clarification from the International Accounting Interpretation Committee (“IFRIC”) in connection with the recognition of pension asset surplus. In the meantime, the group decided not to amortize from the second quarter of the year ended March 31, 2005 the portion of the negative goodwill resulting from the recognition of KLM’s pension asset surplus. The effects of the final decision of the IFRIC on the recognition or not of the pension asset surplus are disclosed in note 22.2. Accounting principles generally accepted in France vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Information relating to the nature and effect of such differences is presented in notes 35 to 37 to the consolidated financial statements. As explained in Note 35, certain 2004 and 2003 financial statement information prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, has been restated. /s/ for KPMG S.A /s/ for DELOITTE & ASSCOCIES Paris, La Défense and Neuilly-sur-seine, France June 21, 2005 except for Notes 35 to 37 for which the date is July 19, 2005 F-2 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Income Statements Years ended March 31, 2005 2005 2004 2003 (in $million)(a) (in € million) Operating revenues Note 4 24,742 19,078 12,337 12,687 External expenses Note 5 (13,860 ) (10,687 ) (6,754 ) (7,174 ) Salaries and related costs Note 6 (7,680 ) (5,922 ) (4,079 ) (3,856 ) Taxes other than income tax (293 ) (226 ) (186 ) (187 ) Gross operating result 2,909 2,243 1,318 1,470 Charge to depreciation/amortization Note 7 (2,057 ) (1,586 ) (1,184 ) (1,195 ) Charge to operating provisions, net Note 7 (174 ) (134 ) (46 ) (115 ) Gain on disposal of flight equipment, net 10 8 7 30 Other operating income and charges, net Note 8 (44 ) (34 ) 44 2 Operating Income 645 497 139 192 Restructuring costs Note 9 (27 ) (21 ) (22 ) (13 ) Net financial charges Note 10 (284 ) (219 ) (60 ) (85 ) Gain on disposals of subsidiaries and affiliates, net Note 11 87 67 5 4 Pre-tax income 420 324 62 98 Share in net income of equity affiliates Note 16 95 73 53 29 Amortization of goodwill Note 14 & 22 75 58 (15 ) (16 ) Income before income tax and minority interests 590 455 100 111 Income tax Note 12 (125 ) (96 ) (2 ) 13 Income before minority interests 466 359 98 124 Minority interests (10 ) (8 ) (5 ) (4 ) Net Income 455 351 93 120 Earnings per share Basic Note 13 1.76 1.36 0.43 0.55 Diluted 1.76 1.36 0.43 0.55 Note: (a) Translation of amounts from € into $ has been made merely for the convenience of the reader at the Noon Buying Rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of €1 = $1.2969 on March 31, 2005 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements F-3 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Balance Sheets Years ended March 31, 2005 2005 2004 2003 (in $ million)(a) (in € million) Consolidation goodwill Note 14 108 83 95 112 Intangible fixed assets Note 14 206 159 149 171 Flight equipment Note 15 14,158 10,917 6,951 7,284 Other property and equipment Note 15 2,382 1,837 955 878 Investments in equity affiliates Note 16 731 564 336 316 Other investments Note 16 711 548 268 260 Total fixed assets, net 18,297 14,108 8,754 9,021 Inventory Note 17 504 389 151 220 Trade accounts receivable Note 18 2,947 2,272 1,651 1,432 Income tax receivable Note 19 126 97 101 111 Other accounts receivable Note 18 2,595 2,001 494 592 Marketable securities Note 20 2,923 2,254 1,478 1,039 Cash 501 386 330 193 Total current assets 9,596 7,399 4,205 3,587 Total assets 27,892 21,507 12,959 12,608 Note: (a) Translation of amounts from € into $ has been made merely for the convenience of the reader at the Noon Buying Rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of €1 = $1.2969 on March 31, 2005 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements F-4 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Years ended March 31, 2005 2005 2004 2003 (in $million)(a) (in € million) Common stock Note 21 2,970 2,290 1,868 1,868 Additional paid-in capital Note 21 506 390 261 261 Treasury stock Note 21 (25 ) (19 ) (18 ) (25 ) Retained earnings Note 21 3,254 2,509 1,960 1,887 Cumulative translation adjustment (12 ) (9 ) (9 ) 3 Stockholders’ equity 6,693 5,161 4,062 3,994 Minority interests 84 65 23 33 Stockholders’ equity and minority interests 6,778 5,226 4,085 4,027 Provisions for liabilities and charges Note 22 2,937 2,265 1,039 1,095 Short and long-term debt and obligations under capital leases Note 23 10,723 8,268 4,380 4,147 Trade payables 2,471 1,905 1,226 1,375 Income tax liability Note 24 105 81 21 5 Advance ticket sales and loyalty program Note 25 2,148 1,656 1,008 901 Other payables Note 26 2,731 2,106 1,200 1,058 Total liabilities 21,115 16,281 8,874 8,581 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 27,892 21,507 12,959 12,608 Note: (a) Translation of amounts from € into $ has been made merely for the convenience of the reader at the Noon Buying Rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of €1 = $1.2969 on March 31, 2005 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements F-5 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity Before allocation ofincome Number of shares comprisingcommon stock Common Stock (par value) Addit-ional paid-in capital Retainedearnings Treasurystock Cumu-lative trans-lationadjust-ment Total Stock- holders’ equity Minorityinterests Total Stock- holders’equity and minority interests (in € million, except shares and per share amounts) March 31, 2002 219,780,887 1,868 261 1,813 — 19 3,961 29 3,990 Dividends paid — — — (28 ) — — (28 ) (2 ) (30 ) Treasury stock — — — — (25 ) — (25 ) — (25 ) Impact of changes in accounting policies — — — (18 ) — — (18 ) — (18 ) Translation differences — — — — — (16 ) (16 ) (1 ) (17 ) Current year net income — — — 120 — — 120 4 124 Changes in scope of consolidation — — — — — — — 3 3 March 31, 2003 219,780,887 1,868 261 1,887 (25 ) 3 3,994 33 4,027 Dividends paid — — — (17 ) — — (17 ) (3 ) (20 ) Treasury stock — — — 1 7 — 8 — 8 Impact of changes in accounting policies — — — (4 ) — — (4 ) — (4 ) Translation differences — — — — — (12 ) (12 ) (3 ) (15 ) Current year net income — — — 93 — — 93 5 98 Changes in scope of consolidation — — — — — — — (9 ) (9 ) March 31, 2004 219,780,887 1,868 261 1,960 (18 ) (9 ) 4,062 23 4,085 Issuance of common stock 49,602,631 422 346 — — — 768 — 768 Contribution of assets — — (206 ) 206 — — — — — Exchange offer costs — — (11 ) — — — (11 ) — (11 ) Dividends paid — — — (17 ) — — (17 ) (1 ) (18 ) Treasury stock — — — 9 (1 ) — 8 — 8 Translation differences — — — — — — — — — Current year net income — — — 351 — — 351 8 359 Changes in scope of consolidation — — — — — — — 35 35 March 31, 2005 269,383,518 2,290 390 2,509 (19 ) (9 ) 5,161 65 5,226 Proposed dividends — — — 40 — — 40 — — The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements F-6 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended March 31, 2005 2005 2004 2003 (in $million)(a) (in € million) Gross operating result 2,909 2,243 1,318 1,470 Other income (expenses) (132 ) (102 ) (23 ) (50 ) Foreign exchange gains (losses) 3 2 3 (9 ) Changes in working capital 235 181 54 (150 ) Restructuring expenditure (64 ) (49 ) (18 ) (12 ) Interest paid (457 ) (352 ) (163 ) (189 ) Interest received 73 56 36 58 Income tax paid (received) (31 ) (24 ) (6 ) (3 ) Cash flows from operating activities 2,535 1,955 1,201 1,115 Acquisitions of subsidiaries and affiliates, net of cash acquired(note 31.2) 656 506 (10 ) (46 ) Purchase of tangible and intangible fixed assets (2,764 ) (2,131 ) (1,269 ) (1,410 ) Disposals of subsidiaries and affiliates 141 109 24 8 Proceeds on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 170 131 391 357 Dividends received 35 27 15 17 Cash flows from investing activities (1,761 ) (1,358 ) (849 ) (1,074 ) Issuance of common stock — — — 5 New debts 1,113 858 901 834 Repayments of debts (370 ) (285 ) (345 ) (745 ) Repayments of capital lease obligations (467 ) (360 ) (152 ) (508 ) Net decrease (increase) in loans (102 ) (79 ) (29 ) (29 ) Net decrease (increase) in short-term investments 150 116 35 62 Dividends paid (31 ) (24 ) (24 ) (34 ) Cash flows from financing activities 293 226 386 (415 ) Translation differences (5 ) (4 ) (5 ) (1 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (Note 31.1) 1,062 819 733 (375 ) Opening cash and cash equivalents 1,822 1,405 672 1,047 Closing cash and cash equivalents 2,884 2,224 1,405 672 Note: (a) Translation of amounts from € into $ has been made merely for the convenience of the reader at the Noon Buying Rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York of €1 = $1.2969 on March 31, 2005 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements F-7 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Business description As used herein, the term “Air France KLM” refers to Air France - KLM, a limited liability company organized under French law, without its consolidated subsidiaries. The terms the “Company” or the “Group” refer to Air France-KLM together with its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company is headquartered in France and is one of the largest airlines in the world. The Company’s core business is passenger transportation. The Company’s activities also include cargo, industrial maintenance and other air-transport related activities, including principally catering and air transport on demand. 2 Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with French accounting regulations as applicable for the years ended March 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The accompanying consolidated financial statements incorporate certain additional disclosures and reclassifications to conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. 2.1 Changes in accounting methods No changes in accounting methods were made during the fiscal year. Changes in accounting principles for the year ended March 31, 2004 Accounting for long-service awards The French National Accounting Board (Conseil National de la Comptabilité) issued a recommendation on April 1, 2003, which excluded employee long-service awards (“médailles du travail”) from the scope of rules governing pension accounting, thereby associating them with regulation 2000-06 on liabilities. Companies were required to record a provision in their statutory and consolidated accounts corresponding to the expected payments to be made as of January 1, 2004 with early application recommended. Air France-KLM applied the provisions of regulation 2000-06 effective April 1, 2003. The application of this recommendation resulted in an adjustment to retained earnings of € 4 million, net of tax. Changes in accounting principles for the year ended March 31, 2003 Adoption of the approach by component for the recognition of maintenance operations on airframes and engines Until March 31, 2002, the Company accrued in advance for estimated costs of major airframe maintenance. Engine maintenance, including the change of parts with limited useful lives, was expensed as incurred. In accordance with the CNC (“Conseil National de la Comptabilité”) statements of July 25, 2002 and January 15, 2003 following the CRC (“Comité de la Réglementation Comptable”) regulation on liabilities (applicable to fiscal years beginning on January 1, 2002) and the regulation on the F-8 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) depreciation, amortization and write-down of assets (applicable to fiscal years beginning January 1, 2003) the Company (Air France SA and its air transport subsidiaries) adopted the component approach for the recognition of maintenance operations on airframes and engines (excluding parts with limited useful lives) under full ownership and capital leases. This change in accounting principle also resulted in the recognition of provisions for the restitution for aircraft and engines under operating leases. Consequently, the accrual for airframe maintenance was eliminated as of March 31, 2003 and the accrual recognized as of March 31, 2002 was reversed to retained earnings. The component approach consists of allocating a portion of the cost of the aircraft to capitalized maintenance costs and amortizing this capitalized cost over the period between maintenance operations. The application of this change in accounting principle resulted in a decrease in stockholders’ equity as of April 1, 2002 of €18 million and an increase in net income of €13 million for the year ended March 31, 2003. Adoption of the percentage of completion method for certain maintenance revenues In connection with maintenance operations performed by the Company for third parties, the Company now recognizes revenue using the percentage-of-completion method for all significant long-term contracts whose term exceeds six months. The change in method had no impact on net income for the period ended March 31, 2003. 2.2 Change in estimate During the year ended March 31, 2005, because Air France and KLM combinated their frequent flyers loyalty programs starting June 2005 and the valuation of new air miles’ redemption assumptions (cf 2.8) the Company adjusted the estimated liability. Had the Company not changed this estimate, the liability associed with the Flying Blue program would have been approximately €130 million at March 31, 2005. During the year ended March 31, 2004, the Company performed studies which focused on the behavior of members of the Frequence Plus loyalty program and implemented changes in the program. These activities caused Air France to change its estimated liability for the loyaltiy program. Had the Company not changed this estimate, the liability associated with the Frequence Plus program would have been approximately € 103 million at March 31, 2004. During the year ended March 31, 2003, the Company changed the estimates used for computing the Frequence Plus liability to more adequately reflect the expected behaviors of its customers. Had the Company not changed this estimate, the liability associated with the Frequence Plus program would have been approximately €130 million at March 31, 2003. 2.3 Consolidation principles Companies under the Company’s control are fully consolidated. Companies jointly controlled by a limited number of parties including the Company are proportionally consolidated. Companies over which the Company has significant influence in terms of management and finance policy are accounted for under the equity method. Significant influence is deemed to exist where the Company holds 20% or more of the voting rights. F-9 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Companies which meet the criteria above, but which are unlikely to be held for any significant length of time, are not consolidated. Companies in liquidation and/or located in countries where fund transfers to the parent company are prohibited are also excluded from the scope of consolidation. The Company’s investment in such companies is stated at cost, net of any impairment provision where appropriate. Affiliates over which the Company no longer has significant influence are deconsolidated at the lower of their carrying value at the date of deconsolidation and their fair value to the Company. All intercompany transactions, including significant asset and liability transfers between fully-consolidated companies, are eliminated. The same treatment applies to internal Company items such as dividends and capital gains. Gains and losses on internal transfers between equity affiliates are eliminated up to the effective percentage interest of the Company in such affiliates. The fiscal year of certain subsidiaries and affiliates, which are listed in note 34, ends on December 31. Those subsidiaries and affiliates are consolidated by the Company with a three-month lag, with the exception of Amadeus GTD. There have been no significant transactions for such subsidiaries for the period from January 1, to March 31 for any of the periods presented. The consolidated income statements include the income statements of all companies acquired during the year from the date of the acquisition. They also include the income statements of companies disposed of during the year up to the date of disposal. Minority interests The portion of the earnings or losses of consolidated subsidiaries that represent ownership interests other than those of Air France (i.e. subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned) is reflected as a deduction from the determination of consolidated net income as minority interests. The portion of the consolidated stockholders’ equity that is attributable to outside owners of subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned is reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as minority interests. 2.4 Translation of financial statements of foreign operations The Company’s functional currency is the euro. The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries with a non-euro functional currency, the activities of which are not an integral part of those of the reporting enterprise, are translated into Euros on the following basis: • the balance sheet is translated using the exchange rate prevailing at year-end, • the income statement is translated at the average exchange rate for the year, • translation differences resulting from differences between the opening and closing exchange rates, as well as between the closing rate and the average exchange rate for the year, are recorded as translation differences within stockholders’ equity. The financial statements of foreign branches, the activities of which are an integral part of the reporting enterprise, are translated into Euros at historical rates of exchange. Resulting translation differences are recorded in the income statement. F-10 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 2.5 Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction or at the hedging rate. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the year-end rate or, where applicable, at the hedging rate. All corresponding translation differences are reflected in the income statement. 2.6 Exchange rate and interest rate financial instruments The Company uses a number of financial instruments to limit its exposure to interest and exchange rate risks and for commodities risks related to the purchase of aircraft fuel. These instruments are traded on organized markets or on an over-the-counter basis. Gains and losses arising on financial instruments used for hedging purposes are recognized in symmetrical fashion to the items hedged. Financial instruments used to hedge future transactions that are certain or likely to materialize are considered hedging instruments. 2.7 Operating revenues For air transportation operations, revenues are recognized when transportation is completed. Transportation is also the trigger for the recognition of external charges such as commissions paid to agents. These revenues include a fuel surcharge paid by passengers to offset the increase in fuel price. Upon issue, both passenger and cargo tickets are recorded as liabilities under “Advance tickets sales”. Revenues representing the value of tickets that have been issued, but which will never be used, are recognized as operating income at the date the tickets are issued. The amounts recognized are based on a statistical analysis, which is regularly updated. Revenues related to hour maintenance operations on airframes and engines are recorded based on the flight time declared by the customer. For maintenance contracts other than those described above, the Company recognizes revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Since April 1, 2004, the flat-rate contracts for engine flight time have been recorded as costs are incurred instead of on the basis of flight hours; the impact of the change is not significant. 2.8 Frequent flyer program As of March 31, 2005, both Air France and KLM offer their own frequent flyer loyalty programs (respectively “Fréquence Plus” and “Flying Dutchman”) which enable members to accumulate air miles when travelling on Air France flights, KLM flights and certain airline partners. These air miles entitle members to a variety of benefits such as free Air France or KLM flights. F-11 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Due to the combination of Air France and KLM, a new joint program will be launched in June 2005, which will accumulate air miles from both current programs. The probability of converting air miles into Award tickets is estimated according to a statistical method. The value of air miles is estimated on the basis of the specific terms and conditions of use of free tickets. This estimate takes into consideration the marginal cost of the passenger concerned (ie catering, fuel, ticket administration and issue costs, etc.) and discounted cost of the miles used on participating partner companies. The estimated value of air miles is recorded as a deduction from revenues and is recorded under the caption “Advance ticket sales and loyalty program” of the balance sheet, at the same time the qualifying flight for which air miles are awarded is recognized. We also sell mileage credits in our frequent flyer program to participating partners such as credit card companies, hotels and car rental agencies. We defer a portion of this representing the value of the subsequent travel award to be provided, in a manner consistent with our determination of the liability for earned flight awards discussed above. The remainder is recognized as revenue immediately. 2.9 Information by activity and geographical area The Company’s activities involve three sectors: passenger activities, cargo services and aircraft maintenance. The Company has defined six discrete geographical sectors, in which revenues are segregated on the basis of origin of sale and destination. • Origin of sale: Revenues from air transport operations are segregated by geographical area, based on ticket issuing locations. Where a third party is responsible for the issuance of the ticket, revenues are allocated to the location of the issuing airline. • Destination: Revenues for air transport operations are segregated on the following basis: • Non-stop flights: revenues are allocated to the geographical network to which the route belongs. • Stop-over flights: revenues are split between the various sections of the route in accordance with IATA standards (based on a weighting of passenger-kilometers). The Company’s fixed assets mainly consist of flight equipment based in Europe. F-12 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 2.10 Calculation of earnings per share Basic earnings per share (before dilution) is obtained by dividing attributable net income for the year by the average number of shares outstanding during the year. The average number of shares outstanding during the current and prior years does not include treasury stock, and is adjusted retrospectively in the event bonuses or discount shares are issued. 2.11 Distinction between net income on ordinary activities and extraordinary items Net income on ordinary activities includes all income and expenses arising within the Company’s ordinary activities, whether such income and expenses are recurring or non-recurring. Unusual items defined as non-recurring income and expenses by virtue of their incidence, nature and amount (such as restructuring costs), are recorded as non-operating expenses. The definition of extraordinary items is restricted narrowly to unusual income and expenses of major significance. 2.12 Goodwill and negative goodwill Goodwill is recognized upon acquisition of subsidiaries and affiliates after allocation of purchase price to the various identifiable assets and liabilities. Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods determined in each case, not to exceed 20 years. Negative goodwill is recognized in the income statement over the period of time that the Company deems reasonable considering the expected synergies and the costs incurred in achieving them. 2.13 Other intangible fixed assets Business goodwill (“Fonds de commerce”) acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of UTA in 1990 is being amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of 20 years. Costs related to software and licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods of between one and four years. 2.14 Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets The Company records impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets when events and circumstances indicate that the assets are impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than their carrying amount. The amount of the impairment is based on discounted cash flows. 2.15 Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost. Effective April 1, 1997, interest incurred in connection with the financing of capital expenditures (including flight equipment) during the period prior to commissioning is capitalized as part of the cost of the asset. The interest rate used in determining the amount to be capitalized is equivalent to the F-13 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) average interest rate on outstanding debt instruments as of the end of the year, unless the capital expenditure or advance payments are funded by specific loans, in which case the specific rate is utilized. The Company accounts for a lease arrangement as a capital lease if the arrangement includes a bargain purchase option provision. The related assets are recorded in the balance sheet at historical cost. Obligations arising under the lease are recorded as liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred, with the exception of those major maintenance programs which extend the useful life of the asset or increase its overall value, which are capitalized (maintenance on airframes and engines excluding parts with limited useful lives). (A) Flight equipment Flight equipment is acquired in foreign currency (generally the U.S. dollar) and translated at prevailing exchange rates or hedging rates where a hedging instrument has been used. Manufacturers’ discounts are usually deducted from the value of the asset. Aircraft are depreciated using the straight-line method over their average estimated useful life. From April 1, 1997, this useful life has been estimated at 18 years, with an estimated residual value of 10% of original cost. Aircraft fixtures and fittings acquired from April 1, 1997 are separated from the total acquisition cost of the aircraft and depreciated using the straight-line method over a period of five years, corresponding to their average useful lives. Fixtures and fittings related to aircraft acquired prior to April 1, 1997 are depreciated over the same period as the aircraft to which they relate (22 years). As discussed in note 2.1, the Company changed its method of accounting for major maintenance programs and lease restitution obligations effective April 1, 2002. Following this change in accounting method, the airframe and engine overhaul component (excluding parts with limited useful lives) has been separated from the acquisition cost of the aircraft and amortized over the period between the date of acquisition and the next scheduled maintenance operation. In addition, the estimated costs of major maintenance operations (airframes and engines excluding parts with limited useful lives) to be performed according to specifications and schedules defined by manufacturers and government authorities are capitalized and amortized over the period between maintenance operations. Spare parts, other than consumables, are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as fixed assets. Useful lives vary from three to 18 years depending on the technical characteristics of each. The Company may revise the useful life as facts and circumstances related to the estimated use or retirement of a specific fleet to which the spare parts relate become known. F-14 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) (B) Other property and equipment Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings 30 years Fixtures and fittings 8 to 15 years Equipment and tooling 5 to 15 years Flight simulators 10 to 20 years (C) Impairment of flight equipment The Company assesses potential impairment losses, when events and circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist, at the entire aircraft fleet level (full ownership, capital leases and capitalized spare parts) on the basis of recoverable value. 2.16 Investments Investments in non-consolidated companies and other long-term equity investments are stated at cost, net of provisions for impairment in value. A provision for impairment is recorded where the fair value at the reporting date is lower than acquisition cost. Increases and decreases in this provision are recorded in the consolidated income statements. The fair value of investments corresponds to the value in use to the Company. This value is determined based on the Company’s share of net equity (subject to fair value adjustments), profitability forecasts and, for listed companies, stock prices. Other financial assets, which are primarily comprised of deposits, are valued at the lower of cost or market value. 2.17 Inventories Inventories consist primarily of expendable parts related to flight equipment and are initially recorded at cost. A provision is recorded to reduce inventory values to the lower of cost or realizable value. Cost represents acquisition cost or manufacturing and assembly costs, the latter including direct and indirect production costs incurred under normal operating conditions. Inventories are valued on a weighted average basis. A provision for obsolescence is recorded based on respective inventory ages. 2.18 Marketable securities Marketable securities are stated in the consolidated balance sheet at the lower of cost or market value. For listed securities, market value is determined using the stock market price at the balance sheet date. Investments in debt securities are recorded upon acquisition at nominal value, adjusted for any issue premium or discount. Accrued interest receivable is also recorded under this heading. F-15 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) Investments in mutual funds (“SICAVs”) are recorded at acquisition cost excluding any entrance charges. Thereafter, they are stated at net realizable value as of the reporting date. If the net realizable value is lower than acquisition cost, a provision is recorded to reduce the acquisition cost to net realizable value. Negotiable debt securities (deposit certificates and bonds from financial companies) are recorded at acquisition cost. Interest income is recognized using an effective interest rate method. 2.19 Treasury stock The acquisition cost of interests in the common stock of Air France-KLM held, on an other-than-temporary basis, by consolidated subsidiaries, is deducted from consolidated stockholders’ equity. Gains and losses on disposal of such securities are recorded as increases or decreases in stockholders’ equity. Treasury stock held for purpose of satisfying future obligations under the Company’s stock option and stock compensation plans is recorded at cost in marketable securities. A provision is recorded through net income to reduce these shares to the lower of cost or market value. 2.20 Retirement benefit and similar obligations The Company’s obligations related to defined benefit pension plans and lump-sum termination payments on retirement are calculated using the projected credit method, taking into consideration specific economic conditions prevailing in the related countries. These obligations are covered either by provision or plan assets. Provisions for these plans are valued and recorded in accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits. 2.21 Provisions for restitution for aircraft under operating leases Following the change in accounting method described in note 2.1, the Company accrues for restitution costs related to aircraft under operating leases as soon as the asset does not meet the return to condition criteria set forth in the related lease arrangement. When the condition of the aircraft exceeds this return to condition criteria, the Company capitalizes the excess amount. This amount is amortized on a straight-line basis over a period ending when the restitution criteria is met. 2.22 Other provisions for contingencies The Company accounts for provisions for contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and its amount can be reliably estimated. The Company evaluates provisions based on facts and circumstances known at the closing date, from past experience and other information available to the best of its knowledge. 2.23 Equity and debt issuance costs - redemption premiums Debt issuance costs are amortized over the term of the debt using the effective interest rate method. Common stock issuance and merger costs are deducted from additional paid-in capital. Debt is recorded at redemption value. Redemption and issue premiums are recorded as a component of debt in the consolidated balance sheets and charged to income as a component of net financial charges over the term of the debt. F-16 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) 2.24 Deferred taxes The Company records deferred taxes using the liability method for all timing differences between the tax and book values of assets and liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet, with the exception of consolidation goodwill and UTA purchased goodwill. Deferred tax balances are determined based on each entity’s jurisdictional tax position, taking into consideration consolidated tax returns when applicable. Net deferred tax assets relating to timing differences and carry forward losses are only recognized to the extent that the tax entity is expected to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to absorb such carry-forward losses or timing differences. No tax is provided on the undistributed reserves of consolidated entities unless a distribution is expected in the near term or the Company has no control over the distribution of reserves. 2.25 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash, short-term deposits and bank overdrafts with original maturities of less than three months. 2.26 Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 2.27 Convenience translation The consolidated balance sheets, statements of income and cash flows include the presentation of amounts as of and for the year ended March 31, 2005, denominated in million of US dollars. These amounts are presented for the convenience of the reader and have been prepared using an exchange rate of €1 to 1.2969 US dollars, which was the Noon Buying Rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on March 31, 2005. Such translation should not be construed as a representation that the euro amount has been, could have been or could in the future be converted into US dollars at that or any other exchange rate. 3 Changes in the scope of consolidation 3.1 Scope of consolidation As of March 31, 2005, the Company was comprised of 159 companies, of which 135 were fully consolidated, three were proportionally consolidated and 21 were recorded as equity affiliates. A list of the companies included within the scope of consolidation is presented in note 34. 3.2 Comparability On the basis of the (still provisional) fair value estimate of the assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition, the first consolidation of the KLM group shows “negative goodwill” of €915 million. This F-17 Table of Contents AIR FRANCE - KLM AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued) has been determined based on an acquisition price of €798 million less that portion of net assets acquired of €1,713 million. Shareholders’ equity specifically includes the adjustment to fair market value of KLM’s fleet of (€924) million and the recognition of a prepaid pension asset of an amount of €976 million. As some valuations are still in process, this negative goodwill may be adjusted during the purchase price allocation period, which expires at the end of the fiscal year following the year of acquisition. This is the case for the value of the funds allocated to cover pension commitments. An in-depth review of the applicable accounting standard is currently being carried out in order to determine whether this item may be recorded on the balance sheet. Pending the definitive position from the International Accounting Interpretation Committee to whom the issue was sent, the Company considers that according to accounting standards, this surplus may be recognized. However the Company has, as a precautionary measure, chosen not to amortize the portion of negative goodwill relative to the excess fund value, after the first quarter of the fiscal year ended as of March 31, 2005. The estimated amount of this portion is €622 million at March 31, 2005. Had this portion been amortized in the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005, the Company would have recorded an increase of approximately €93 million in net income. The amortization period is five years, reflecting the length of time that the Company considers reasonable for implementing the anticipated synergies, and the costs incurred in achieving them. Negative goodwill is accounted for in the caption “Provisions for liabilities and charges” of the consolidated balance sheets. 