Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Industry The communications industry is subject to government regulation, and changes in current or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. We are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation. Pursuant to the Communications Act, as amended, or the Telecommunications Act, the FCC exercises jurisdiction over us with respect to interstate and international services. We must comply with various federal regulations, such as the duty to contribute to universal service and other subsidies. Failure to comply with federal reporting and regulatory requirements may result in fines or other penalties, including loss of authority to provide services. The FCC’s recent Triennial Review Order, or TRO, and its Triennial Review Remand Order, or TRRO, has reduced our ability to obtain unbundled network elements, or UNEs, and certain combinations of UNEs in several ways and have affected our operations. We may no longer purchase the unbundled network element platform, or UNE-P, for new customers and all UNE-P access terminates in March 2006. Because of this, we entered into a commercial agreement with Qwest and Verizon to purchase substitute UNE-P products at higher rates and have converted all of our UNE-P lines to these new products. We may also no longer be able to purchase DS1 UNE loops in four wire centers in the Qwest territory. In addition, we have only limited or no access to DS1 and DS3 transport on certain interoffice routes. Finally, we cannot purchase UNE transport between our switches and Qwest switches. In these instances where we lose access to UNEs, we must either find alternative suppliers or purchase substitute circuits from the RBOC as special access, which would increase our costs. State regulatory commissions also exercise jurisdiction over us to the extent we provide intrastate services. We are required to obtain regulatory authorization and/or file tariffs with regulators in all of the states in which we operate. We have obtained the necessary certifications to provide service, but each commission retains the authority to revoke our certificate if that commission determines we have violated any condition of our certification or if it finds that doing so would be in the public interest. While we believe we are in compliance with regulatory requirements, our interpretation of our obligations may differ from those of regulatory authorities. Both federal and state regulators require us to pay various fees and assessments, file periodic reports and comply with various rules regarding the contents of our bills, protection of subscriber privacy, service quality and similar consumer protection matters on an ongoing basis. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines or potentially be asked to show cause as to why our certificate of authority to provide service should not be revoked. The communications market in which we operate is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively against companies that have significantly greater resources than we do, which could cause us to lose customers and impede our ability to attract new customers. The communications industry is highly competitive and is affected by the introduction of new services and systems by, and the market activities of, major industry participants. In each of our markets we compete principally with the RBOC serving that area. The recent mergers of SBC with AT&T and MCI, Inc. with Verizon may cause these risks to intensify. We have not achieved, and do not expect to achieve, a major share of the local access lines for any of the communications services and systems we offer. Current and potential large competitors in each market have the following advantages over us: · long-standing relationships and strong reputation with customers; · financial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources substantially greater than ours; · more funds to deploy communications services and systems that compete with ours; 24 · larger networks; and · benefits from existing regulations that favor the RBOCs. We also face, and expect to continue to face, competition in our markets from other current and potential market entrants, including other competitive communications services providers, competitive local carriers, wireless carriers, resellers, competitive access providers, cable television companies, electric utility companies, microwave carriers and private networks built by large end users. Increasingly, we are subject to competition in the Internet services market from communications companies, online service providers, cable companies and Internet telephone and other IP-based service providers, such as 8 x 8, Inc., Net2Phone, Inc., pulver.com, Inc. and Vonage Holdings Corp. The Internet services providers are currently subject to substantially less regulation than competitive and traditional local telephone companies and are exempt from a number of taxes and regulatory charges that we are required to pay. In addition, the development of new technologies could give rise to significant new competitors in the local market. In the long distance communications market, we face competition from large carriers such as AT&T, Verizon and Sprint, the RBOCs, wireless carriers, many smaller long distance carriers and IP-based service providers. Long distance prices have decreased substantially in recent years and are expected to continue to decline in the future as a result of increased competition. If this trend continues, we anticipate that revenue from our network services and other service offerings will likely be subject to significant price pressure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in current or future regulations in the local and long distance industries may hurt our business and results of operations and restrict the manner in which we operate our business. If current or future regulations change, we cannot assure you that the FCC or state regulators will grant us any required regulatory authorization or refrain from taking action against us if we are found to have provided services without obtaining the necessary authorizations, or to have violated other requirements of their rules and orders. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals or the enactment of new adverse regulation or regulatory requirements may slow our growth and have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that changes in current or future regulations adopted by the FCC or state regulators, or other legislative, administrative or judicial initiatives relating to the communications industry, would not be less favorable to competitive communications services providers and more favorable to RBOCs and thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The communications industry faces significant regulatory uncertainties and the resolution of these uncertainties could hurt our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Telecommunications Act requires, among other things, that RBOCs provide access to their networks to us; however, this act remains subject to judicial review and ongoing proceedings before the FCC and state regulators, including proceedings relating to interconnection pricing, access to and pricing for unbundled network elements and other issues that could result in significant changes to our business and business conditions in the communications industry generally. We must lease unbundled network elements from RBOCs at cost-based rates to serve our customers and to connect our telecommunications equipment. We provide our customers with telecommunications services through telephone lines or “loops” we lease from RBOCs. We pay RBOCs to maintain and repair these loops. We also purchase other unbundled network elements from RBOCs, such as transport between RBOC switches. Recent decisions by the FCC have eliminated or reduced our access to some unbundled network elements and increased the rates that we pay for such elements. This has required us to enter into commercial agreements with the RBOCs to obtain the elements at increased prices. Our business would be substantially impaired if the FCC, the courts, state commissions or the Congress eliminated our access to these elements or substantially increased the rates at 25 which we pay for access. The TRRO, the most recent FCC order governing our access to network elements, is being appealed and judicial review could result in significant changes to the order. Other proceedings are underway that could potentially further limit our access to UNEs. The FCC has initiated a proceeding that may result in increasing the rates we pay for network elements. A number of states also have proceedings and legislative proposals pending to re-examine and possibly increase our network element rates. In addition, several important federal legislators have announced their intention to substantially revise the Communications Act. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the effects, if any, that these proposals may have on our business and operations. A brief summary of legal and regulatory developments is discussed in more detail in the section entitled “Regulation.” The financial difficulties faced by others in our industry could adversely affect our public image and our financial results. Many competitive communications services providers, long distance carriers and other communications providers have experienced substantial financial difficulties over the past few years. To the extent that carriers in financial difficulties purchase access services from us, we may not be paid in full or at all for services we have rendered. Further, the perception of instability of companies in our industry may diminish our ability to obtain further capital and may adversely affect the willingness of potential customers to purchase their communications services from us. Risks Related to Acquisitions We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired companies into our business. During 2005, we completed the acquisition of ATI, which closed on December 31, 2004. While we believe that this acquisition was successfully integrated into the legacy Eschelon operation, there can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate and consolidate subsequent acquisitions into our ongoing business and operations according to management’s plan. As noted in Item 1. Business, Eschelon announced the signing of a definitive agreement to purchase OTI on January 27, 2006. While we believe that we have sufficient financial and management resources to complete the integration of OTI, there can be no assurance in this regard or that we will not experience difficulties with customers, personnel or others resulting from the integration. This process will require management, financial and other resources and may pose risks with respect to production, customer service and market share. It may also require regulatory approvals for some aspects which we cannot assure will be obtained. In addition, although we believe that the OTI acquisition will enhance our competitive position and business prospects, there can be no assurance that such benefits will be fully realized or that the integration of OTI into our business and operations will ultimately be successful. As we adapt to the current telecom environment and begin to integrate OTI, we may be required to make operational changes, including consolidating certain operations, closing certain facilities, or amending or terminating existing contractual relationships, in order to improve our future profitability. However, there can be no assurance as to the cost required to effect those operational changes, their effectiveness, or the timing or amount of any cost savings that are actually realized as a result of such changes. Management is continuing to assess our overall organization and cost structures and may, as a result of this ongoing process, develop future initiatives to increase operating and administrative efficiency and enhance profitability. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently integrate OTI into our business and operations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may suffer. We will continue to look for opportunities that fit our acquisition filters, in terms of price, services and footprint. There can be no assurance that future acquisitions will be successfully integrated or will not result in significant disruption to on-going operations. If we acquire another business, we may face difficulties, including: · integrating that business’ personnel, services, products or technologies into our operations; 26 · retaining key personnel of the acquired business; · failing to adequately identify or assess liabilities of that business; · failure of that business to achieve the forecasts we used to determine the purchase price; and · diverting our management’s attention from the normal daily operation of our business. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business and increase our expenses. In addition, our ability to complete acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to finance the acquisitions, including the costs of acquisition and integration. Our ability may be constrained by our cash flow, the level of our indebtedness at the time, restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, conditions in the securities markets and other factors, many of which are not within our control. If we proceed with one or more acquisitions in which the consideration consists of cash, we may use a substantial portion of our available cash to complete the acquisitions. If we finance one or more acquisitions with the proceeds of indebtedness, our interest expense and debt service requirements could increase materially. The financial impact of acquisitions could materially affect our business and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly operating results. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. We have incurred significant operating and net losses in the past and expect to continue to incur losses in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we had an operating loss of $16.1 million, a net loss of $17.2 million and an accumulated deficit of $125.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we had an operating loss of $5.6 million, net income of $1.1 million and an accumulated deficit of $124.1 million. The net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 was primarily the result of a gain on extinguishment of debt of $18.2 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had an operating loss of $4.3 million, a net loss of $31.0 million and an accumulated deficit of $155.0 million. We cannot assure you that our revenues will continue to grow or that we will achieve profitability in the future. If the RBOCs with whom we have interconnection agreements engage in anticompetitive practices, our business will be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to interconnect with RBOC networks and to lease from them certain essential network elements. We obtain access to these network elements and services under terms established in interconnection agreements that we have entered into with Qwest, AT&T and Verizon. Like many competitive communications services providers, from time to time, we have experienced difficulties in working with the RBOCs with respect to obtaining information about network facilities, ordering network elements and services, interconnecting with RBOC networks and settling financial disputes. These difficulties can impair our ability to provide local service to customers on a timely and competitive basis. The Telecommunications Act of 1996, or the Telecommunications Act, required RBOCs to cooperate with competitive communication services providers and meet statutory requirements for opening their local markets to competition before they could receive permission to provide in-region long distance services. Now that each RBOC has met those requirements and received authorization to provide long distance services throughout its respective operating region, it may have less incentive to properly maintain the information, ordering and interconnection interfaces that we rely on and may otherwise fail to cooperate with us regarding service provisioning issues. The RBOCs, including Qwest, AT&T and Verizon, have been fined by or have agreed to make voluntary payments in connection with consent decrees to both federal and state authorities for their failure to comply with the laws and regulations that support local competition. We believe these fines and payments may not substantially reduce the use of anticompetitive practices and illegal and anticompetitive activity may continue to occur in most of our markets. While we consistently undertake legal actions to oppose these anticompetitive actions and enforce our legal right of access to RBOC facilities, regulatory 27 and judicial remedies frequently do not preclude further anticompetitive behavior and rarely compensate us for our damages and legal expenses. If an RBOC refuses to cooperate or otherwise fails to support our business needs in retaliation for our efforts to enforce our legal rights or for any other reason, including labor shortages, work stoppages, cost-cutting initiatives or disruption caused by mergers, other organizational changes or terrorist attacks, our ability to offer services on a timely and cost-effective basis will be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to provide our services and systems at competitive prices is dependent on our ability to negotiate and enforce favorable interconnection agreements. Our ability to continue to obtain favorable interconnection, unbundling, service provisioning and pricing terms, and the time and expense involved in negotiating interconnection agreements and amendments, can be adversely affected by ongoing legal and regulatory activity. All of our existing interconnection agreements provide either that a party is entitled to demand renegotiation of particular provisions or of the entire agreement based on intervening changes in law resulting from ongoing legal and regulatory activity, or that a change of law is immediately effective in the agreement and set out a dispute resolution process if the parties do not agree upon the change of law. The initial terms of all of our interconnection agreements with the RBOCs have expired; however, each agreement with Qwest and AT&T contains an “evergreen” provision that allows the agreement to continue in effect until a new agreement is in place. Our Verizon agreements are subject to termination on 60 day’s notice. If we were to receive a termination notice from Verizon, we could initiate an arbitration proceeding at the relevant state commission before the expiration of the notice period and our existing agreement would remain in effect until the commission approved a new agreement. We are in the process of renegotiating the terms of our interconnection agreements with Qwest, AT&T and Verizon. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully renegotiate the agreements on terms favorable to us. In addition to negotiation and arbitration, the Act gives us the right to opt into any other carrier’s interconnection agreement, provided the agreement is still in effect and provided that we adopt the entire agreement. Any limitation on our ability to colocate telecommunications equipment in RBOC central offices, or on the terms and conditions for interconnecting our network to the RBOCs’ networks, or on the availability of unbundled network elements, especially unbundled local loops or interoffice transmission facilities, resulting from our failure to negotiate favorable interconnection agreements or resulting from federal or state regulatory activity, could increase our costs and otherwise have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FCC has granted Qwest, AT&T, and Verizon significant flexibility in pricing interstate special access services. This pricing flexibility may result in RBOCs raising their prices. To the extent we are forced to purchase special access circuits because equivalent facilities are no longer available at cost-based rates as unbundled network elements under our interconnection agreements, our costs may significantly increase. We provide a more detailed discussion of current legal and regulatory developments affecting access charges and intercarrier compensation issues in the section entitled “Regulation.” The regulation of access charges involves uncertainties, and the resolution of these uncertainties could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a facilities-based competitive communications services provider, we earn access charges by connecting our voice services customers with long distance carriers such as AT&T, Verizon and Sprint Corp. When a network service voice customer of ours originates or receives a long distance call, we are entitled to compensation from these carriers for the cost we incur in originating or terminating the long distance call. In 2005, access charges accounted for $13.3 million, or 5.8% of our total revenue. We have tariffs filed with the FCC for interstate access services and with most states where we provide intrastate access services. Our rates can be higher than those charged by some larger local exchange carriers that have many more customers and, consequently, lower per-unit costs. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in collecting access fees due to us from some carriers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully resolve future rate disputes with all carriers. Future regulatory proceedings, both at the FCC and in individual states where we operate, could 28 result in decreasing our access charges. Such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The FCC has commenced a proceeding to revise its compensation rules regarding carrier access charges. Because we receive payments from long distance carriers for the calls their customers make that access our network facilities, we will be affected by any changes to the FCC’s compensation rules. We cannot predict the impact that any such changes would have on our business. Difficulties we may experience with the RBOCs and long distance providers over payment issues may hurt our financial performance. We have experienced difficulties with receiving payments due to us for services that we provide to RBOCs and long distance service providers. These balances due to us can be material. We generally have been able to reach mutually acceptable settlements to collect overdue and disputed payments, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future. If we are unable to continue to timely receive payments and to create settlement agreements with other carriers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, certain of our interconnection agreements allow the RBOCs to decrease order processing, disconnect customers and increase our security deposit obligations for delinquent payments. For example, interconnection agreement provisions required by Qwest provide that, in addition to late payment charges, Qwest may discontinue order processing if we fail to pay within 30 days of the payment due date, disconnect customers if we fail to pay within 60 days after the payment due date, and require a deposit if we pay late three times during a 12 month period. The deposit may be up to the estimated total monthly charges for an average two-month period within the first three months from the date of delinquency. If an RBOC makes an enforceable demand for an increased security deposit, we could have less cash available for other expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The level of our outstanding total debt may adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our financial obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $92.1 million of total indebtedness outstanding, excluding capital lease obligations. Our indebtedness could significantly affect our business and our ability to fulfill our financial obligations. For example, a high level of indebtedness could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our current and future debt obligations; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds or obtain other forms of financing; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements out of future operating cash flows or with additional debt or equity financing; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or our industry; · place us at a disadvantage to competitors with less debt; and · make us vulnerable to interest rate fluctuations, if we incur any indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Our outstanding notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our operating flexibility. The indenture governing our outstanding 83¤8% senior second secured notes due 2010 contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest. In addition, we may obtain a credit facility in the future which may include similar or additional covenants. These covenants may include restrictions on our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; 29 · create liens with respect to our assets; · make investments, loans or advances; · prepay specified indebtedness; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · merge, consolidate, reorganize or sell our assets; and · engage in any business other than activities related or complementary to telecommunications, voice, data or video services. In addition, a future credit facility may impose financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios and tests, including minimum quarterly EBITDA, senior debt to total capitalization, maximum capital expenditures, maximum leverage ratios and minimum interest coverage ratios. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet these requirements or satisfy these covenants in the future. If we fail to do so, our debts could become immediately payable at a time when we are unable to pay them. This could adversely affect our ability to carry out our business plan and would have a negative effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to retain and attract management and key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan. We believe that our success is due, in part, to our experienced management team, including Mr. Richard A. Smith, our president and chief executive officer. Losing the services of one or more members of our management team could adversely affect our business and our expansion efforts, and possibly prevent us from further improving our operational, financial and information management systems and controls. As we continue to grow, we will need to retain and hire qualified sales, marketing, administrative, operating and technical personnel, and to train and manage new personnel. We believe that there are a limited number of persons with experience comparable to the experience of the members of our management team. Our ability to implement our business plan is dependent on our ability to retain and hire a large number of qualified new employees each year. If we are unable to hire sufficient qualified personnel, our customers could experience inadequate customer service and delays in the installation and maintenance of access lines. If we choose to grow by expanding to new markets and/or by making acquisitions, we would face additional risks. Although we believe cash resources on hand will be sufficient to fund our current operations, we may need to seek additional funding by issuing new debt or equity, if we choose to expand our geographic service area or to make acquisitions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital requirements may differ from our current estimates. Competitive developments, changes in technology, changes in the regulatory environment and other events may cause us to alter the currently estimated amount and timing of our expenditures. These and other factors may also cause our actual revenues and costs to differ from what we currently anticipate, which could affect the amount and timing of our additional financing needs. Sources of additional financing may include the private or public sale of equity or debt securities, commercial bank debt financing, vendor financing or lease financing. If we meet our funding needs through debt financing, our interest and debt service obligations will increase, and we may become subject to restrictive covenants that could impair our ability to implement our business plan. We cannot assure you that any additional financing we may need will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Rapid growth could place a significant strain on our management, operational, financial and information management systems and controls, personnel and other resources. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement the operational and financial information management systems and 30 controls that we anticipate would be necessary to support rapid growth and to manage a competitive business in an evolving industry. Any failure to implement and improve these systems and controls and to maintain our other resources at a pace consistent with industry changes and the growth of our business could cause customers to switch to other competitive service providers, which would have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent on effective billing, customer service and information systems. Sophisticated back office information and processing systems are vital to our ability to control and monitor costs, provide outstanding customer service, bill and service customers, initiate, implement and track customer orders and achieve operating efficiencies. We have purchased and implemented our essential information systems consisting of our billing system, our sales order entry system, our customer provisioning system, our electronic bonding system, our mediation system and our switch information systems. The integration of these systems is challenging because all of these systems were developed by different vendors and must be coordinated through custom software and integration processes. Our sales, line count and other core operating and financial data are generated by these systems and the accuracy of this data depends on the quality of manual entry and system integration. Although we have completed some systems integration, the upgrading of these systems and the integration of updated systems is ongoing. In addition, we may experience negative adjustments to our financial and operating data if we encounter difficulties in these projects. We cannot assure you that any such adjustments arising out of our systems integration efforts will not have a material adverse effect in the future. If we are unable to effectively upgrade and integrate our operations and financial systems, our customers could experience delays in connection of service, billing issues and/or lower levels of customer service. Declining prices for communications services could reduce our revenue and profitability. Prices for network services have decreased in recent years and are expected to continue to decline in the future. In addition, the long distance industry has historically experienced high customer churn, as customers frequently change their chosen long distance providers in response to lower rates or promotional incentives by competitors. This trend may continue. We depend on a limited number of third party service providers for long distance and other services, and if any of these providers were to experience significant interruptions in its business operations, or were to otherwise cease to provide such services to us, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of third party service providers for long distance, data and other services. If any of these third party providers were to experience significant interruptions in their business operations, terminate their agreements with us or fail to perform the services or meet the standards of quality required under the terms of our agreements with them, our ability to provide these services to our customers would be materially and adversely affected for a period of time that we cannot predict. If we have to migrate the provision of these services to an alternative provider, we cannot assure you that we would be able to timely locate alternative providers of such services, that we could migrate such services in a short period of time without significant customer disruption so as to avoid a material loss of customers or business, or that we could do so at economical rates. If we are unable to locate such alternative providers we may need to seek an alternative that could be costly and disrupt our service or we would lose our transport capacity. The communications industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, and new technologies may be superior to the technologies we use. Our failure to anticipate and keep up with such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and in customer requirements and preferences. If we fail to anticipate and keep up with such changes we could lose market share which could reduce our revenue. We have developed our business based, in part, on traditional telephone technology. Subsequent technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our network and require expensive unanticipated upgrades or additional communications products that could be time consuming to integrate into our business and could cause us to lose customers and impede our ability to attract new customers. 31 We may be required to select one technology over another at a time when it might be impossible to predict with any certainty which technology will prove to be more economic, efficient or capable of attracting customers. In addition, even if we utilize new technologies, such as VoIP, we may not be able to implement them as effectively as other companies with more experience with those new technologies. Technological advancements and manufacturing economies of scale could make VoIP services delivered over the Internet cost effective to deploy and of sufficient quality to be acceptable to business customers. A network failure could cause delays or interruptions of service, which could cause us to lose customers and revenue. Our success requires that our network provide competitive reliability, capacity and security. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure include: · physical damage to access lines; · power surges or outages; · capacity limitations; · software defects; · lack of redundancy; · breaches of security; and · other disruptions beyond our control. Such disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, any of which could cause us to lose customers. We continue to monitor our network from a performance and cost perspective and as a result, our network optimization routines may have an adverse effect on our customers. Our engineering and operations organizations continually monitor and analyze the utilization of our network. As a result, they may develop projects to modify or eliminate network circuits that are underutilized. This ongoing process may result in limited network outages for a subset of our customers, adversely affecting our relationship with them and may increase our customer disputes and monthly churn. We will be required to report the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting of our business in our annual report on Form 10-K for 2006. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder require our annual reports to contain a report of management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and an attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm as to that management report. Our first management internal controls report, as well as our first auditor attestation of that report, will be required to be included commencing with our annual report on Form 10-K for 2006. The evaluation of our systems and the documentation of such systems that we will need to comply with Section 404 will be both costly and time-consuming. We have recently begun the work necessary to comply with Section 404 and cannot estimate at this time how long this process will take nor how much additional expense we will incur in completing the process. In addition, if we are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2006 (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report are fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on our management’s assessment or on the effectiveness of the internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could, in turn, have an adverse effect on our stock price. Some of our employees are unionized, and we could face work disruptions due to strikes, slowdowns or other labor disputes. A small percentage of our employees are members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. Although our management believes that our relationship with our union employees is good, we cannot promise that we will never experience a labor disruption. Such disruptions could occur in 32 response to our actions but could also be due to the actions of other union employers. Significant labor disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide acceptable levels of service to our customers, which could result in customer dissatisfaction and a loss of business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and subsequent worldwide terrorist actions may negatively affect our operations. We cannot assure you that there will not be further terrorist attacks that impact our employees, network facilities or support systems. Certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others are not likely to be covered by our insurance. Terrorist attacks may directly impact our business operations through damage or harm to our employees, network facilities or support systems, increased security costs or the general curtailment of voice or data traffic. Any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to our business and the United States financial markets and economies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 33 