Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services. Our commercial success depends in part on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and the ability to protect our own intellectual property. Affymetrix, Inc. filed a complaint against us in July 2004, alleging infringement of six of its patents, and other third parties have asserted or may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. As we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents and claim that use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. We may incur the same costs and diversions in enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and to attain profitability. 15 Table of Contents We expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This would limit our ability to compete and achieve profitability. If we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and function and other applications using technologies such as two-dimensional electrophoresis, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, next-generation DNA sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. One or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we have. Furthermore, the life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. If we are unable to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. We may encounter difficulties in integrating recently completed or future acquisitions that could adversely affect our business. In 2005, we acquired CyVera Corporation and may in the future acquire technology, products or businesses related to our current or future business. We have limited experience in acquisition activities and may have to devote substantial time and resources in order to complete acquisitions. Further, these potential acquisitions entail risks, uncertainties and potential disruptions to our business. For example, we may not be able to successfully integrate a company’s operations, technologies, products and services, information systems and personnel into our business. An acquisition may further strain our existing financial and managerial resources, and divert management’s attention away from our other business concerns. In connection with the CyVera acquisition, we assumed certain liabilities and hired certain employees of CyVera, which is expected to result in an increase in research and development expenses and our capital expenditures. There may also be unanticipated costs and liabilities associated with an acquisition that could adversely affect our operating results. We have only recently achieved profitability and may not be able to remain profitable. We have incurred net losses each year since our inception. As of January 1, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $144.6 million and we incurred a net loss of $20.9 million for the year ended January 1, 2006. We recorded a modest profit in the fourth quarter of 2005 and we may not be profitable in 2006, due in part to the impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 123R, which is expected to add additional expense of $9.0 million to $12.0 million in 2006. Our ability to maintain or increase profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. We expect to continue incurring significant expenses for research and development, for developing our manufacturing capabilities and for sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products. In addition, we expect that our selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the launch of new products. As a result, we expect that our operating expenses will increase significantly as we grow and, consequently, we will need to generate significant additional revenue to maintain profitability. Even if we maintain profitability, we may not be able to increase profitability on a quarterly basis. 16 Table of Contents The growth and profitability of our oligo business depends on a third party. In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Invitrogen to sell and market our oligos worldwide. Under the terms of the collaboration, Invitrogen is responsible for sales, marketing and technical support, while we are responsible for the manufacture of the collaboration products. As Invitrogen is solely responsible for the sales and marketing support of the collaboration, our continued growth and profitability related to these products depends on the extent to which Invitrogen is successful in penetrating the oligo market and selling the collaboration products. If Invitrogen is not successful in selling the collaboration products, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We have a limited history of commercial sales of systems and consumable products, and our success depends on our ability to develop commercially successful products and on market acceptance of our new and relatively unproven technologies. We may not possess all of the resources, capability and intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize all the products or services that may result from our technologies. Sales of our genotyping and gene expression systems only began in 2003, and some of our other technologies are in the early stages of commercialization or are still in development. You should evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting similarly situated companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. We must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before some of our products will be ready for sale and we currently have fewer resources available for research and development activities than many of our competitors. We may not be able to develop or launch new products in a timely manner, or at all, or they may not meet customer requirements or be of sufficient quality or at a price that enables us to compete effectively in the marketplace. Problems frequently encountered in connection with the development or early commercialization of products and services using new and relatively unproven technologies might limit our ability to develop and successfully commercialize these products and services. In addition, we may need to enter into agreements to obtain intellectual property necessary to commercialize some of our products or services, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Historically, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies have analyzed genetic variation and function using a variety of technologies. In order to be successful, our products must meet the commercial requirements of the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries as tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and function. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to demonstrate to potential customers the benefits and cost effectiveness of our products and services relative to others available in the market; • the extent and effectiveness of our efforts to market, sell and distribute our products; • our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; • the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies requiring capital investments; and • the extended time lag and sales expenses involved between the time a potential customer is contacted on a possible sale of our products and services and the time the sale is consummated or rejected by the customer. 17 Table of Contents Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for defending intellectual property rights. The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products, as we deem appropriate. However, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. Questions as to inventorship may also arise. For example, a former employee recently filed a complaint against us, claiming he is entitled to be named as joint inventor of certain of our U.S. patents and pending U.S. and foreign patents and seeking a judgment that the related patents and applications are unenforceable. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a description of this complaint. Any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain licenses to practice the technology, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. There also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate additional lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 18 Table of Contents Our manufacturing capacity may limit our ability to sell our products. We are currently ramping up our capacity to meet our anticipated demand for our products. Although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe that we have plans in place to help ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan in 2006, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facility and launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. Our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. We currently have fewer resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services as compared to our primary competitors. In order to effectively commercialize our genotyping and gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. In addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies, that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. If we are unable to develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. We currently possess only one facility capable of manufacturing our products and services for both sale to our customers and internal use. If a natural disaster were to significantly damage our facility or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, these events could prevent us from developing and manufacturing our products and services. Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information Management System (“LIMS”). Additionally, as part of the decoding step in our array manufacturing process, we record several images of each array to identify what bead is in each location on the array and to validate each bead in the array. This requires significant network and storage infrastructure. If either our LIMS system or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it would adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and may prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. The nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. For example, we currently obtain the fiber optic bundles and BeadChip slides included in our products from single vendors. If we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. We may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These difficulties could increase our losses. We expect to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our losses could increase. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. We may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Our future capital requirements will be substantial and will depend on many factors including our ability to successfully market our genetic analysis systems and services, the need for capital expenditures to support and expand our business, the progress and scope of our research and development projects, the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims, the outcome of our legal proceedings with Affymetrix, the defense of any future litigation involving us and the need to enter into collaborations with other companies or acquire other companies or technologies to enhance or complement our product and service offerings. We anticipate that our current cash and cash equivalents, revenue from sales and funding from grants will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating needs, barring unforeseen developments. However, this expectation is based upon on our current operating plan, which may change as a result of many factors. Consequently, we may need additional funding in the future. Our inability to raise capital would seriously harm our business and product development efforts. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations, such as an acquisition, even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. We currently have no credit facility or committed sources of capital available as of January 1, 2006. To the extent operating and capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on attractive terms, we may be required to curtail operations significantly or to obtain funds by entering into financing, supply or collaboration agreements on unattractive terms. 20 Table of Contents If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief executive officer and John Stuelpnagel, our senior vice president and chief operating officer. The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. The failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. A significant portion of our sales are to international customers. Approximately 38% of our revenue for the year ended January 1, 2006 was derived from customers outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international presence and export sales to international customers and we expect the total amount of non-U.S. sales to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks, including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; • difficulties in obtaining export licenses or other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 Table of Contents Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and function. We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and function, namely SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. Both of these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and function. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. This fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, the timing and amount of government grant funding programs and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly. Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain profitability. Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our revenue growth in 2006 or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenues. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price probably would decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 Table of Contents 