D. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks resulting from changing competitive, economic, political and social conditions that could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Risks Relating to VCP and the Pulp and Paper Industry The market prices for our products are cyclical. The prices we are able to obtain for our products depend on prevailing world prices for market pulp and paper. World prices have historically been cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations over short periods of time depending on a number of factors, including: • worldwide demand for pulp and paper products; • worldwide production capacity and inventories; • the strategies adopted by major pulp and paper producers; and • the availability of substitutes for our products. All of these factors are beyond our control. Over the last three years, bleached eucalyptus kraft pulp (BEKP) or market pulp prices in the United States, Europe and Asia, respectively, have fluctuated from lows of US$ 525, US$ 490, and US$ 440 per ton in the first quarter of 2004, to highs of US$ 715, US$ 680, and US$ 650 per ton at December 30, 2006 in these respective regions. Such price fluctuations occur not only year to year but also within a year as a result of global and regional economic conditions, and supply and demand. The price of paper products, although less volatile than the price of pulp, also experiences fluctuations in response to global demand and production and fluctuations in pulp prices. Capacity adjustments have also occurred on the paper side, and in the first half of 2006 we saw paper prices increasing for several grades in the United States and Europe. For uncoated woodfree papers, international prices climbed 15% in the first six months of 2006 but declined approximately 5% in the last quarter of the year. For a more detailed discussion of prices of pulp and paper, see Item 4.B “Information on VCP – Business Overview – Cyclical nature of world pulp prices.” It is possible that the market prices for pulp and paper will decline in the future, or that there will not be sufficient demand for our products to enable us to operate our production facilities in an economical manner. A slowdown in demand in China may adversely affect our exports. China has been an increasingly important market to us since the expansion of our pulp exports in 2002. According to the Pulp and Paper Products Council (PPPC) the demand for chemical and market pulp in China grew to about 7.5 million tons in 2006, a 10% increase over 2005, and represented 15% of the world pulp demand in 2006, compared to approximately 2% in 1995. China currently represents approximately 15% of our total export volume and 14% of our total sales volume, including the volume originated from Ripasa. There is no assurance that demand by China for pulp will continue its current pace of growth in the future or that China will continue to constitute a significant part of our exports. A decline in demand by China for our products could adversely affect our exports and, therefore, our financial results. 7 We face significant competition in some of our lines of business, which may adversely affect our market share and profitability. The pulp and paper industry is highly competitive. Competitive features within the industry include the following: • in the domestic paper market, we face competition from larger international companies that have greater ability to support strategic expenditures directed to increase market share; and • in the international pulp and paper markets, we compete with larger competitors that have greater financial strength and higher production capacities. Traditionally, imports of pulp and paper have not provided substantial competition for us in Brazil due to, among other factors, logistical costs, tariff rates and exchange rates on those products. If the Brazilian government decreases import tariffs, we may face a sudden increase in competition in the domestic market by foreign producers. In addition, most markets are served by several suppliers, often from different countries. Many factors influence our competitive position, including mill efficiency and operating rates and the availability, quality and cost of wood, energy, water, chemicals and labor, and exchange rate fluctuations. See “Item 3D—Risks Relating to Brazil-- Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs.” Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases and greater breadth of product offerings than we do. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers in the future, our market share may be adversely affected. In addition, downward pressure on the prices of pulp and paper by our competitors may affect our profitability. Delays in the expansion of our facilities or in building new facilities may affect our costs and results of operations. As part of our strategy to increase our international market share and improve our competitiveness through greater economies of scale, we may expand or build one or more production facilities. The expansion or construction of a production facility involves various risks. These risks include engineering, construction, regulatory and other significant challenges that may delay or prevent the successful operation of the project or significantly increase our costs. Our ability to complete successfully any expansion or new construction project on time is also subject to financing and other risks. We may be adversely affected because: • we may not be able to complete any expansion or new construction project on time or within budget; • our new or modified facilities may not operate at designed capacity or may cost more to operate than we expect; and • we may not be able to sell our additional production at attractive prices. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental regulations that would require us to spend additional funds. We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations in Brazil governing air emissions, effluent discharges, solid wastes, odor and reforestation, and we require permits from governmental agencies for certain of our operations. Changes in these laws and regulations could adversely affect us. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations and permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or our permits could be revoked, and our ability to operate could be suspended or otherwise adversely affected. In addition, noncompliance with these laws, regulations and permits could result in criminal sanctions for us and for our employees. We could also be responsible for related environmental remediation costs, which could be substantial. 8 It is possible that governmental agencies or other authorities will pass new laws or impose additional laws and regulations even more stringent than the ones currently in force or will seek a more stringent interpretation of existing laws and regulations that would require us to spend additional funds on environmental compliance or limit our ability to operate as we currently do. In addition, these actions could increase the costs associated with renewing existing permits or applying for new ones. There can be no assurance that these additional funds or costs will not be material or that existing permits will be renewed. In addition, environmental laws and regulations in certain countries may be more stringent than the ones we are subject to in Brazil, which may lead to such countries imposing trade related sanctions against Brazil or our industry. Furthermore, our inability to comply with more stringent foreign environmental laws and regulations may prevent us from seeking lower cost financing from foreign governmental related or multilateral development organizations, which may condition future financing on our compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover our losses, especially in cases of damage to our forests. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that we might incur. We have comprehensive insurance with leading insurers to cover damages to our mills caused by fire, general third-party liability for accidents and operational risks and international and domestic transportation. However, we do not maintain insurance coverage against fire, disease and other risks to our forests. The occurrence of losses or other damages not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could result in significant unexpected additional costs. If we are unable to manage potential problems and risks related to acquisitions and alliances, our business and growth prospects may suffer. Some of our competitors may be better positioned to acquire other pulp and paper businesses. We may, as part of our business strategy, acquire other businesses in Brazil or elsewhere or enter into alliances. Our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or alliances will occur, or the likelihood of a material transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions or alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions and negotiate, finance and close transactions. Even if we complete future acquisitions: • we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of any acquired company; • we could fail to select the best partners or fail to effectively plan and manage any alliance strategy; • the acquisitions could increase our costs; • our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and • we could lose key employees of the acquired company. Our failure to integrate new businesses or manage new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Furthermore, the world pulp and paper industry is undergoing consolidation, and many companies compete for acquisition and alliance opportunities in our industry. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions and alliances necessary for the expansion of our business. In addition, any major acquisition we consider may be subject to regulatory approval. We may not be successful in obtaining required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. See “Item 4A—Information on VCP—History and Development of VCP.” 9 We are controlled by a defined group of individuals who have the power to control all our subsidiaries and us. We are controlled by the Ermírio de Moraes family, which indirectly controls all of our outstanding common voting shares. Consequently, our controlling shareholders have the power to control us and all of our subsidiaries, including the power to: • elect our directors; and • determine the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations and dispositions and the timing and payment of any future dividends. We currently engage in, and expect in the future to engage in, commercial and financial transactions, from time to time, with our controlling shareholders or their affiliates. Commercial and financial transactions between our affiliates and us create the potential for, or could result in, conflicts of interests. For a discussion of certain related party transactions, see “Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” We rely on third parties for some of our technology. We rely on third parties for the technology that we use to make some of our value-added paper products. For example, Oji Paper of Japan has granted us the right to use its technology to manufacture and sell certain thermal papers in Brazil and to sell these products in some other countries. If a third-party licensor of technology that we use refused to continue licensing its technology to us, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Various other risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our operations are subject to various other risks affecting our forests and manufacturing processes, including fire, drought, disease, climate changes, strikes, post closings, shipping costs, electrical failures and factory explosions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic and political conditions and perceptions of these conditions in the international market have a direct impact on our business and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Our operations are conducted in Brazil, and in 2006 we sold approximately 37% of our products in terms of volume to Brazilian customers. Accordingly, our financial conditions and results of operations are substantially dependent on economic conditions in Brazil. Brazil’s gross domestic product grew by 4.9% in 2004, 2.3% in 2005 and about 2.8% in 2006, but we cannot assure you that gross domestic product will increase or remain stable in the future. Future developments in the Brazilian economy may affect Brazil’s growth rates and, consequently, the consumption of pulp and paper. As a result, these developments could impair our business strategies, financial condition or results of operations. In the past, the Brazilian government has intervened in the Brazilian economy and occasionally made drastic changes in policy. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and affect other policies have included wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls, and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in government policies as well as general economic factors, including: • currency fluctuations; • inflation; • price instability; • energy policy; • interest rates; • tax policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. 10 Historically, the political scenario has influenced the performance of the Brazilian economy. In the past, political crises have affected the confidence of investors and the general public, which resulted in economic deceleration and affected the trading prices of common shares issued by companies listed on the stock exchange. In October 2006, elections were held in all states of Brazil and at the federal level to elect new state governors and reelect the President. President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva was reelected. We cannot predict whether the government will continue the policies of the previous administration or will pursue different policies, whether these new policies, if implemented, will be effective, and how investors and the capital markets will react to them. Any substantial negative reaction to the policies of the Brazilian government could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Inflation and certain governmental measures to combat inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil has, in the past, experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, according to the Índice Geral de Preços-Disponibilidade Interna, or IGP-DI, a general price inflation index, the Brazilian general price inflation rates were 12%, 1% and 4% in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Inflation itself and certain governmental measures to combat inflation in the past have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Our cash costs and operating expenses are substantially all in reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation because our suppliers and providers generally increase prices to reflect the depreciation of the value of the currency. If either the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than any rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar, then, as expressed in U.S. dollars, our operating expenses may increase and (assuming constant U.S. dollar sales prices) our profit margins will decrease. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, our costs of real-denominated debt may increase. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Brazilian Economic Environment.” Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Because a significant portion of our revenues and assets is denominated in reais and we have U.S. dollar-denominated debt and other liabilities, we may be adversely affected by any future devaluations of the real against the U.S. dollar. The Brazilian currency has been devalued periodically during the last four decades. See “Item 3—Key Information—Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” Our production costs and operating expenses are substantially all in reais and will generally decrease, as expressed in U.S. dollars, as a result of any devaluation of the real. If either the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than the rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the real or the rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the real increases more rapidly then the rate of the Brazilian inflation. then, as expressed in U.S. dollars, our operating expenses may increase and (assuming constant U.S. dollar sales prices) our profit margins will decrease. In addition, any significant devaluation of the real may produce exchange losses on unhedged debt denominated in foreign currency. In 2004 the real appreciated an additional 9% against U.S. dollar due to the positive results in the Brazilian trade balance, positive finance inflow (due to high interest rate), lower external vulnerability and the weakness of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. For the same reasons, we witnessed another 13% appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar during 2005 and another 9% during 2006. The Central Bank has intervened occasionally to control unstable movements in the foreign exchange rate. We cannot predict whether the Central Bank will continue to let the real float freely. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict what impact the Brazilian government’s exchange rate policies may have on us. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will not in the future impose a band within which the real/U.S. dollar exchange rate could fluctuate or set a fixed exchange rate, nor can we predict what impact such an event might have on our financial condition or results of operations. 11 Devaluations of the real relative to the U.S. dollar also create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. They generally curtail access to foreign financial markets and may require government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. See “—Inflation and certain governmental measures to combat inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets.” Devaluations also reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on our ADSs and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Developments in other markets may adversely affect the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. The market for securities backed by Brazilian companies is influenced by economic and market conditions in Brazil and, to varying degrees, market conditions in other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, the reaction of investors to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Developments or conditions in other emerging market countries have at times significantly affected the availability of credit in the Brazilian economy and resulted in considerable outflows of funds and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in Brazil. Crises in other emerging market countries may hamper investor enthusiasm for securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. This could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs and our preferred shares and could also make it difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, recent speculation about future increases in U.S. interest rates has created volatility in the emerging markets. Future increases in U.S. interest rates may adversely affect the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Preferred Shares and ADSs Exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad may adversely affect holders of our ADSs. You may be adversely affected if the Brazilian government imposes restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and, as it has done in the past, on the conversion of the real into foreign currencies. These restrictions could hinder or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of preferred shares or ADSs, as the case may be, into U.S. dollars and the remittance of U.S. dollars abroad. We cannot assure you that the government will not take this type of or similar measures in the future. Holders of our ADSs could be adversely affected by delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required governmental approval for conversion of real payments and remittances abroad in respect of the preferred shares, including the preferred shares underlying the ADSs. In such a case, our ADS depositary will distribute reais or hold the reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. Exchanging ADSs for the underlying preferred shares may have unfavorable consequences. The Brazilian custodian for the preferred shares must obtain an electronic certificate of registration from the Central Bank to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends, any other cash distributions, or upon the disposition of the preferred shares and sales proceeds related thereto. If you decide to exchange your ADSs for the underlying preferred shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely, for five business days from the date of exchange, on the ADS depositary’s electronic certificate of registration. Thereafter, you may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies outside Brazil upon the disposition of the preferred shares, or distributions relating to the preferred shares, and you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the preferred shares, unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of registration with the Central Bank, under Resolution No. 2,689 of January 26, 2000 of the National Monetary Council, which entitles foreign investors to buy and sell on the Brazilian stock exchanges. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer significant delays in the application process. Obtaining an electronic certificate of registration involves generating significant documentation, including completing and filing various electronic forms with the Central Bank and the CVM. In order to complete this process, the investor will need to appoint at least one representative in Brazil with powers to perform certain actions relating to the foreign investment and will usually need to have a consultant or an attorney who has expertise in Central Bank and CVM regulations. These expenses or delays could adversely impact your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the preferred shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. If you decide to exchange your preferred shares back into ADSs once you have registered your investment in the preferred shares, you may deposit your preferred shares with the custodian and rely on the ADS depositary’s electronic certificate of registration, subject to certain conditions. We cannot assure you that the ADS depositary’s electronic certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by you may not be affected by future legislative or other regulatory changes, or that additional restrictions applicable to you, the disposition of the underlying preferred shares or the repatriation of the proceeds from disposition could not be imposed in the future. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Dividend Policy and Dividends—Payment of dividends.” 12 The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of our preferred shares or ADSs. Investments in securities, such as the preferred shares or the ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involve a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from more developed countries. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. Accordingly, the ability of the holders to sell the preferred shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which holders wish to do so may be substantially limited. The São Paulo Stock Exchange (Bolsa de Valores de São Paulo), or BOVESPA, the main Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$ 723 billion as of December 31, 2006, and an average daily trading volume of approximately US$ 420 million, US$ 667 million and US$ 1.1 billion in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. In comparison, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of approximately US$ 23 trillion as of December 31, 2006, and an average daily trading volume of approximately US$ 46 billion, US$ 56 billion and US$ 87 billion for 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 51% of the aggregate market capitalization of BOVESPA as of December 31, 2006. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 51.3% and 46.1% of all shares traded on BOVESPA, in December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Because we are subject to specific rules and regulations as a Brazilian company, holders of our preferred shares or ADSs have fewer and less well defined shareholders’ rights than investors in U.S. companies. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and the Brazilian corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as Delaware or New York, or in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of the preferred shares under the Brazilian corporate law to protect your interests relative to actions taken by our board of directors or the holders of common shares may be fewer and less well defined than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Although Brazilian law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the securities markets in the United States or certain other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well developed and enforced in Brazil than in the United States, potentially disadvantaging holders of our preferred shares and ADSs. When compared to Delaware general corporation law, the Brazilian corporate law and practice have less detailed and less well established rules and judicial precedents relating to the review of management decisions under duty of care and duty of loyalty standards in the context of corporate restructurings, transactions with related parties and sale-of-business transactions. In addition, shareholders must hold 5% of the outstanding share capital of a corporation to have standing to bring shareholders’ derivative suits, and shareholders ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action. Also, in accordance with Brazilian corporate law and our by-laws, holders of our preferred shares, and therefore of our ADSs, are not entitled to vote at meetings of our shareholders except in limited circumstances. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 13 Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our preferred shares. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the preferred shares underlying your ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available and the ADS depositary determines to make the rights available to you. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration applies, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive rights by the ADS depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, the rights will be allowed to lapse. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Exchange Controls—Preemptive Rights.” 