Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following issues could adversely affect our operating results or our stock price. We expect intense competition in our target markets, which could render our products obsolete, result in significant price reductions or substantially limit the volume of products that we sell. This would limit our ability to compete and maintain profitability. If we cannot continuously develop and commercialize new products, our revenue may not grow as intended. We compete with life sciences companies that design, manufacture and market instruments for analysis of genetic variation and biological function and other applications using technologies, capillary electrophoresis, mass spectrometry, flow cytometry, microfluidics, nanotechnology, next-generation DNA sequencing and mechanically deposited, inkjet and photolithographic arrays. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as existing companies develop new or improved products and as new companies enter the market with new technologies. The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, emerging competition, new product introductions and strong price competition. For example, prices per data point for genotyping have fallen significantly over the last two years and we anticipate that prices will continue to fall. One or more of our competitors may render our technology obsolete or uneconomical. Some of our competitors have greater financial and personnel resources, broader product lines, a more established customer base and more experience in research and development than we do. Furthermore, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, which are our potential customers and strategic partners, could develop competing products. For example, during the third quarter of fiscal 2007, Life Technologies (previously referred to as Applied Biosystems Group, a business segment of Applera Corporation) launched the SOLiDtm System, its next generation sequencing technology. If we are unable to develop enhancements to our technology and rapidly deploy new product offerings, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Negative conditions in global credit markets may result in delayed payments from our customers and may negatively impact our smaller suppliers. The recent economic conditions and market turbulence may impact the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers. Certain of our customers may face challenges gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding could increase. Additionally, these economic conditions may cause our smaller suppliers to be unable to supply in a timely manner sufficient quantities of customized components, which would impair our ability to manufacture on schedule and at commercially reasonable costs. In addition, due to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In addition, our business depends on the overall demand for methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function. We rely in large part on the research and development spending of our customers, which is often discretionary, and the recent economic downturn has caused many companies to reduce their research and development budgets. If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, our customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and services. A reduction in demand will reduce our revenues and harm our profitability. Due to our increasing foreign operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations. We are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets. We have sales offices located internationally throughout Europe and the Asia Pacific region, as well as manufacturing facilities in the United Kingdom and Singapore. During 2008, the majority of our sales to international customers and purchases of raw materials from international suppliers were denominated in the U.S. dollar. Changes in the value of the 13 Table of Contents relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. Our revenues from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. Our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they may raise their prices as the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the United States and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. The recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue and thus adversely impact our business or financial conditions. If we are unable to find third-party manufacturers to manufacture components of our products, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. The nature of our products requires customized components that currently are available from a limited number of sources. For example, we currently use multiple components in our products that are single-sourced. If we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of those or other product components, we will be unable to meet demand for our products. We may need to enter into contractual relationships with manufacturers for commercial-scale production of some of our products, or develop these capabilities internally, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to do this on a timely basis, for sufficient quantities or on commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we may not be able to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing at commercially reasonable costs. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief executive officer. The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego and San Francisco area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. The failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These difficulties could impair our profitability. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our profitability could suffer. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. 14 Table of Contents A significant portion of our sales is to international customers. Shipments to customers outside the United States comprised 51%, 43% and 44% of our revenue for the years ended December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. We intend to continue to expand our international presence by selling to customers located outside of the U.S. and we expect the total amount of non-U.S. sales to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks, including: • longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States; • currency exchange fluctuations; • challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; • difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In addition, we are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions that could adversely affect our business, specifically the effective launch and customer acceptance of new technology platforms. We have made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of or significant investments in businesses with complementary products, services or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of acquired companies; • lack of synergies or the inability to realize expected synergies and cost-savings; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed operations; • revenue and expense levels of acquired entities differing from those anticipated at the time of the acquisitions; • negative near-term impacts on financial results after an acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies; • claims by terminated employees and shareholders of acquired companies or other third parties related to the transaction; • the issuance of dilutive securities, assumption or incurrence of additional debt obligations or expenses, or use of substantial portions of our cash; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • the impairment of intangible assets as a result of technological advancements, or worse-than-expected performance of acquired companies; Acquisitions and other transactions are inherently risky and our previous or future transactions may not be successful. The inability to effectively manage the risks associated with these transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Any inability to protect effectively our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property in the United States and other countries. If we do not protect our intellectual property adequately, competitors may be able to use our technologies and thereby erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These challenges can be caused by the absence of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights abroad. The patent positions of companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We intend to apply for patents covering our technologies and products as we deem appropriate. However, our patent applications may be challenged and may not result in issued patents or may be invalidated or narrowed in scope after they are issued. Questions as to inventorship may also arise. Any finding that our patents and applications are unenforceable could harm our ability to prevent others from practicing the related technology, and a finding that others have inventorship rights to our patents and applications could require us to obtain certain rights to practice related technologies, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. There also is risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Also, our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents, or litigate against third party claims, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights and reduce our ability to compete in the marketplace. Furthermore, these lawsuits may divert the attention of our management and technical personnel. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and have taken security measures to protect this information. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other confidential information. Among other things, we seek to protect our trade secrets and confidential information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our confidential information, and we may not otherwise be able to protect effectively our trade secrets. Accordingly, others may gain access to our confidential information, or may independently develop substantially equivalent information or techniques. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend significant time and money and could prevent us from selling our products or services or impact our stock price. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our non-infringement of the patents or proprietary rights of third parties and on our ability to protect our own intellectual property. Third parties have asserted and may in the future assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. As we enter new markets, we expect that competitors will likely claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. In addition, third parties may have obtained and may in the future obtain patents allowing them to claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents. We could incur substantial costs and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims. Any adverse ruling or perception of an adverse ruling in defending ourselves against these claims could have a material adverse impact on our stock price, which may be disproportionate to the actual import of the ruling itself. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other relief, which effectively could block our ability to develop further, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the 16 Table of Contents award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties, or be prohibited from selling certain products. In addition, we may be unable to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. We could therefore incur substantial costs related to royalty payments for licenses obtained from third parties, which could negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses on favorable terms could prevent us from commercializing products, and the prohibition of sale of any of our products could materially affect our ability to grow and maintain profitability. Changes in our effective income tax rate could impact our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments based on interpretations of existing tax laws or regulations are required in determining the provision for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected by various factors including, but not limited to, changes in the mix of earnings in tax jurisdictions with different statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in existing tax laws or tax rates, changes in the level of non-deductible expenses including share-based compensation, changes in our future levels of research and development spending, mergers and acquisitions, and the result of examinations by various tax authorities. If we are unable to increase our manufacturing capacity and develop and maintain operation of our manufacturing capability, we may not be able to launch or support our products in a timely manner, or at all. We continue to ramp up our capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products. Although we have significantly increased our manufacturing capacity and we believe we have plans in place sufficient to ensure we have adequate capacity to meet our business plan for 2009, there are uncertainties inherent in expanding our manufacturing capabilities and we may not be able to increase our capacity in a timely manner. For example, manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we increase production rates at our manufacturing facilities and launch new products. As a result, we may experience difficulties in meeting customer, collaborator and internal demand, in which case we could lose customers or be required to delay new product introductions, and demand for our products could decline. Additionally, in the past, we have experienced variations in manufacturing conditions that have temporarily reduced production yields. Due to the intricate nature of manufacturing products that contain DNA, we may encounter similar or previously unknown manufacturing difficulties in the future that could significantly reduce production yields, impact our ability to launch or sell these products, or to produce them economically, prevent us from achieving expected performance levels or cause us to set prices that hinder wide adoption by customers. Additionally, we currently manufacture in a limited number of locations. Our manufacturing facilities are located in San Diego and Hayward, California; Singapore; and Little Chesterford, United Kingdom. These areas are subject to natural disasters such as earthquakes or floods. If a natural disaster were to significantly damage one of our facilities or if other events were to cause our operations to fail, we may be unable to manufacture our products, provide our services or develop new products. Also, many of our manufacturing processes are automated and are controlled by our custom-designed Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS). Additionally, the decoding process in our array manufacturing requires significant network and storage infrastructure. If either our LIMS system, or our networks or storage infrastructure were to fail for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis and would prevent us from achieving our expected shipments in any given period. 17 Table of Contents We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. This fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly in absolute dollars. Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely sequencing, SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. These markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to sustain profitability. Loss of the tax deduction on our outstanding convertible notes. We could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes due in 2014 if the foregoing notes are not subject to the special Treasury Regulations governing integration of certain debt instruments, the notes are converted, or we invest in non-taxable investments. We may not be able to sustain operating profitability. Prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception, and in 2007 we reported a net loss of $278.4 million, reflecting significant charges associated with our acquisition of Solexa in January 2007 and the settlement of our litigation with Affymetrix. As of December 28, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $332.5 million. Our ability to sustain profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. Non-cash stock-based compensation expense and expenses related to prior and future acquisitions are also likely to continue to adversely affect our future profitability. We expect to continue incurring significant expenses related to research and development, sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. In addition, we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. Although we have regained profitability, we may not be able to sustain profitability on a quarterly basis. 18 Table of Contents Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist of marketable debt securities, including treasury bills and commercial paper with strong credit ratings, corporate bonds and short maturity mutual funds providing similar financial returns. Additionally, as of December 28, 2008, we had $55.9 million of auction rate securities issued primarily by municipalities and universities. These securities are debt instruments with a long-term maturity and with an interest rate that is reset in short intervals through auctions. Our entire auction rate portfolio is held in a brokerage account with UBS Financial Services, Inc., a subsidiary of UBS AG (UBS) and is currently rated AAA or AA by a rating agency. Beginning in February 2008, these auction rate securities became illiquid because their scheduled auctions failed to settle. An auction failure occurs when the parties wishing to sell securities at auction cannot. As of December 28, 2008, the securities continued to fail auction and remained illiquid. Various regulatory agencies initiated investigations into the sales and marketing practices of several banks and broker-dealers, including UBS, which sold auction rate securities, alleging violations of federal and state laws. Along with several other broker-dealers, UBS subsequently reached a settlement with the federal and state regulators that required them to repurchase auction rate securities from certain investors at par at some future date. In November 2008, we signed a settlement agreement to sell our auction rate securities at par value to UBS during the period of June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. The settlement agreement with UBS and the associated put option mitigates the risk of loss on our auction rate security portfolio. However, given the negative conditions in the global credit markets there is still risk that UBS may not be able to fulfill its obligation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 