D. Risk Factors — Inflation and the Brazilian government’s measures to combat inflation, may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil, and may have adverse effects on our business and results of operations.” Our financial expenses are affected by changes in interest rates, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Brazilian Interbank Deposit Certificate (Certificado de Depósito Interbancário) or CDI and the Brazilian Long Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo) or TJLP. The CDI rate has fluctuated significantly in the past in response to the expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, inflation, Brazilian government policies and other factors. The CDI rate was 10.6% p.a., 9.0% p.a. and 13.8% p.a. as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The TJLP rate has not fluctuated much since January 2009, when it was at 6.25% p.a. In June 2009, it decreased to 6.0% p.a. and is at this level since then. Due to the U.S. economic crisis, LIBOR rates have also fluctuated and have decreased in recent months in response to the Federal Reserve’s monetary policy. A significant increase in interest rates, particularly the CDI, TJLP or LIBOR, would have a material adverse effect on our financial expenses and could negatively affect our overall financial performance. On the other hand, a significant reduction in the CDI rate or LIBOR could adversely impact the financial revenues derived from our short-term money market investment activities. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Economic and market conditions in other countries, including in developing countries, may materially and adversely affect the Brazilian economy and, therefore, the market value of our ADSs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced by economic and market conditions in Brazil, and, to varying degrees, market conditions in other countries, including Latin American and developing countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country may cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. Developments or conditions in other countries, including developing countries, have at times significantly affected the availability of credit in the Brazilian economy and resulted in considerable outflows of funds and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in Brazil. It has also limited access to international capital markets, all of which may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow funds at an acceptable interest rate or to raise equity capital when and if there should be a need for us to do so. The volatility in market prices for Brazilian securities has increased from time to time, and investors’ perception of increased risk due to crises in other countries, including developing countries, may also lead to a reduction in the market price of our ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs Exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad may adversely affect holders of our ADSs. One may be adversely affected if the Brazilian government imposes restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and, as it has done in the past, on the conversion of the Real into foreign currencies. These restrictions could hinder or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of shares or ADSs, as the case may be, into U.S. Dollars and the remittance of U.S. Dollars abroad. We cannot assure that the government will not take this type of or similar measures in the future. Holders of our ADSs could be adversely affected by delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required governmental approval for conversion of Real payments and remittances abroad in respect of the shares, including the shares underlying the ADSs. In such a case, our ADS depositary will distribute Reais or hold the Reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are organized under and are subject to the laws of Brazil and most of our directors and executive officers and our independent registered public accounting firm resides or is based in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of these other 17 Table of Contents persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of the ADSs to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, our ADS holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests due to actions by us, our directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of our ADSs. Investments in securities, such as our common shares or ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investments in securities of issuers from more developed countries. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. These features may substantially limit the ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which holders wish to do so. The BM&FBOVESPA had a market capitalization of U.S.$1.546 trillion as of December 31, 2010, and an average monthly trading volume of approximately U.S.$3.693 billion in 2010. In comparison, the NYSE had a domestic market capitalization of U.S.$13.394 trillion (excluding funds and non-U.S. companies) as of December 31, 2010. A liquid and active market may never develop for our common shares or ADSs, and as a result, the ability of our ADS holders to sell at the desired price or time may be significantly hindered. Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company and our shareholders may have fewer and less well-defined rights. Holders of ADSs are not direct shareholders of our Company and are unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our bylaws and Brazilian law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and Brazilian law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Under Brazilian law, the rights of a holder of our common shares to protect its interests with respect to actions by us, our directors or executive officers may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares or ADSs at a potential disadvantage. In addition, the disclosure required of public companies in Brazil may be less complete or informative than that required of publicly-held companies in the United States or in certain other countries. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise voting rights with respect to their underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement for our ADS program, or the Fibria Deposit Agreement. Under this Agreement, ADS holders may only vote by giving voting instructions to our Depositary. Because our Depositary appears on our share registries and not the ADS holders, such holders are unable to exercise their right to vote without the representation of our Depositary unless they surrender their ADSs for cancellation in exchange for our common shares. In addition, pursuant to the Fibria Deposit Agreement, our Depositary will only notify our ADS holders of an upcoming vote and arrange to mail proxy cards to those holders if we request our Depositary to do so. Pursuant to our by-laws, the first call for a shareholders’ meeting must be published at least 15 days in advance of the relevant meeting, and the second call must be published at least eight days in advance of the meeting, in the case of insufficient quorum to approve the matters included in the first meeting. As a result, there may not be enough time for ADS holders to surrender their ADSs and withdraw underlying common shares, or for them to receive a proxy card in time to ensure that they can provide our Depositary with voting instructions. Our Depositary and its agents are not liable for failure to mail proxy cards in time for ADS holders to vote the common shares underlying their ADSs or to carry out voting instructions in the manner as instructed or at all. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise the voting rights attached to the common shares underlying their ADSs. An exchange of ADSs for shares risks the loss of certain foreign currency remittance and Brazilian tax advantages. The ADSs benefit from the certificate of foreign capital registration, which permits our Depositary to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to common shares into foreign currency, and to remit the proceeds abroad. Holders of ADSs who exchange their ADSs for common shares will then be entitled to rely on the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, they will not be able to remit non-Brazilian currency abroad unless they obtain their own certificate of foreign capital registration, or unless they qualify under Resolution No. 2,689/00 of the CMN, which entitles certain investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate certificates of registration. If 18 Table of Contents holders of ADSs do not qualify under Resolution No. 2,689/00, they will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on distributions with respect to our common shares. There can be no assurance that the certificate of registration of our Depositary, or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by holders of ADSs, will not be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, or that additional Brazilian law restrictions applicable to their investment in the ADSs may not be imposed in the future. Holders of our shares will be subject to, and holders of our ADSs could be subject to, Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of shares or ADSs. Brazilian Law No. 10,833/03 provides that gains on the disposition of assets located in Brazil by non-residents of Brazil, whether to other non-residents or to Brazilian residents, will be subject to Brazilian taxation. The common shares are expected to be treated as assets located in Brazil for purposes of the law, and gains on the disposition of common shares, even by non-residents of Brazil, are expected to be subject to Brazilian taxation. In addition, the ADSs may be treated as assets located in Brazil for purposes of the law, and therefore gains on the disposition of ADSs by non-residents of Brazil may also be subject to Brazilian taxation. Although the holders of ADSs outside Brazil may have grounds to assert that Law No. 10,833/00 does not apply to sales or other dispositions of ADSs, it is not possible to predict whether that understanding will ultimately prevail in the courts of Brazil given the general and unclear scope of Law No. 10,833/03 and the absence of judicial court rulings in respect thereto. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the shares. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common shares underlying their ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) is effective with respect to those exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares or other securities relating to these preemptive rights and we cannot assure holders of our ADSs that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration applies, holders of our ADSs may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, the rights will be allowed to lapse. Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our shares will be payable only in Reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the common shares, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than Reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than Reais may only be satisfied in Brazilian currency at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange rate may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the common shares or the ADSs. 