risk factors have been included in light of our acquisition of additional interest in Aracruz (see “Item 5.A Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Operating Results – Recent Developments”), which represents a significant investment for us. Aracruz’s level of indebtedness may adversely affect us. Aracruz currently has a significant level of indebtedness. In 2008, due to a sharp devaluation of the real against the U.S. dollar, Aracruz suffered significant losses in connection with certain of its derivative financial instruments. As of December 31, 2008, Aracruz’s total indebtedness, including these related to losses arising from its derivative financial instruments, amounted to US$3,913 million, 90.6% of which represented long-term debt payments. 12 Aracruz renegotiated these liabilities with its respective counterparties under those derivative financial instruments and at May 13, 2009 converted such liabilities into an Export Prepayment Facility Agreement and Secured Loan, or the Export Prepayment Credit Facility, which provides for interest payments based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR. Any material adverse change in the LIBOR could adversely affect Aracruz, resulting in an increase of its future debt, which in turn could reduce its net income and, consequently, limit its ability to pay dividends and make distributions to us. In addition, Aracruz may need to incur additional debt in the future in order to refinance its current indebtedness, and we cannot ensure that any such refinancing will be available, if at all, or that we will be able to obtain favorable financing terms. Aracruz may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to make principal, interest or other debt-related payments under its financing agreements. The need to use its cash flow to make payments under its financing agreements may restrict Aracruz from making investments required for its operations or mandatory dividend distributions to its shareholders. Aracruz indebtedness may have negative impacts on our credit ratings and our ability to meet certain financial ratios and covenants in some of our financing agreements, as these may take into account our consolidated financial statements and levels of indebtedness. Actions by federal or state legislatures or public enforcement authorities may adversely affect Aracruz’s operations. State laws have in the past tried to restrict planting eucalyptus forests for purposes of pulp production within the state of Espírito Santo. Although injunctive relief against those state laws has been obtained, and new state legislation has revoked them, there can be no assurance that similar laws will not be enacted in the future which would impose limitations or restrictions on planting eucalyptus in the region where Aracruz operates. On March 13, 2002, the Espírito Santo legislative assembly created an investigating commission (Comissão Parlamentar de Inquérito) to investigate the legality of Aracruz’s permits and the acquisition of its properties. As the procedures in the investigation were not concluded within the prescribed time period for this a type of investigation, the commission was terminated without issuing a final report. Aracruz is confident that all its permits and acquisition documents are strictly in accordance with all laws and regulations. However, we cannot be certain that a governmental entity will not initiate similar or other investigations in the future that would cause Aracruz to incur significant expense and divert its management’s attention. In May 2003 the Human Rights Commission of the Brazilian House of Representatives (Câmara dos Deputados) created a working group to discuss the alleged violation of economic, social, cultural and environmental rights in eucalyptus plantations in the state of Espírito Santo. Among other issues, several complaints involving Aracruz were discussed. Representatives of Aracruz participated in a public hearing and presented to the commission extensive reports, information, evidence, technical studies and governmental and judicial decisions that demonstrate that the complaints were unjustified. The working group was terminated without issuing a final report. However, Aracruz cannot be certain that a governmental entity will not initiate similar or other investigations in the future that would cause Aracruz to incur significant expense and divert its management’s attention. In the second quarter of 2007, a number of non-governmental organizations and the Federal Public Prosecution Office of the Rio Grande do Sul state brought two Civil Public Suits (Ações Civis Públicas) questioning the validity of the procedures adopted by the Fundação Estadual de Proteção Ambiental, or FEPAM, the Rio Grande do Sul state agency for environmental protection, in issuing environmental licenses for eucalyptus plantations in that state. A provisional measure was initially granted, to determine that FEPAM cease to issue environmental licenses for eucalyptus plantations, and so the responsibility for the issuance of such licenses was transferred to the Instituto Brasileiro de Meio Ambiente, or IBAMA, the Brazilian environmental institute. The provisional measure was suspended by the Federal Court of the Fourth Region at the request of the Government of Rio Grande do Sul state. Aracruz believes that such suspension will be confirmed by the court’s definitive decision on the merits. However, there can be no assurance that such definitive decision will be favorable to Aracruz or that similar suits will not be brought in the future that would impose a limitation or restriction on plantation of eucalyptus or that would affect its licenses or permits. 13 Unfavorable outcomes in pending litigation may negatively affect Aracruz’s financial performance and financial condition. Aracruz is involved in numerous tax, civil and labor disputes involving significant monetary claims. If unfavorable decisions are rendered in one or more of these lawsuits, Aracruz could be required to pay substantial amounts, which could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. For some of these lawsuits, Aracruz has not established any provision on its balance sheet or has established provisions only for part of the amounts in question, based on its judgments as to the likelihood of winning these lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome in any of such lawsuits could have a material effect on Aracruz’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Such lawsuits include a securities class action lawsuit filed in November 2008 against Aracruz and certain of its current and former officers and directors in a U.S. federal court purportedly on behalf of persons who purchased Aracruz’s shares and American Depositary Receipts between April 7 and October 2, 2008, which lawsuit Aracruz is defending. The complaint asserts claims for alleged violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and Section 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, alleging that Aracruz represented or failed to disclose information in connection with, and losses arising from, certain derivative transactions into which it had entered. The plaintiffs are seeking unspecified compensatory damages and expense reimbursement. Risk Factors Relating to the implementation of the corporate reorganization following the acquisition of additional interest in Aracruz The implementation of the corporate reorganization following the acquisition by us of an additional interest in Aracruz may face significant challenges. The implementation of the corporate reorganization may present significant challenges, including unanticipated costs and delays, shareholder or creditor opposition, regulatory interference and excessive diversion of our management’s attention from the day–to–day management of our operating activities. If our senior management is unable to efficiently implement the corporate reorganization, our business could suffer. We cannot guarantee that our management will successfully or cost-effectively implement the corporate reorganization. We expect the implementation of the corporate reorganization to simplify our capital structure, thereby improving the access to capital markets by the entity resulting from the corporate reorganization and increasing the liquidity of our shareholders’ securities. Even if our management is able to successfully and cost-effectively implement the corporate reorganization, our access to capital markets and the liquidity of our shareholders’ securities will continue to depend upon, among other things, our future performance, market conditions, investor interest and general economic, political and business conditions both in Brazil and abroad. In addition, our shareholders may still experience a decrease in their ability to sell shares of the combined VCP–Aracruz, as compared to their current ability to sell our shares or ADSs. The benefits that are expected to be achieved from operating VCP and Aracruz as a combined enterprise may not be achieved. Although VCP expects that the merger will produce substantial synergies, the integration of two large companies presents significant challenges to management. No assurance can be given that VCP and Aracruz will be able to integrate their operations without encountering difficulties, which may include, among other things, the loss of key employees, the disruption of their respective ongoing businesses or possible inconsistencies in standards, procedures and policies. There can also be no assurance as to the extent to which VCP will be able to produce the synergies that we anticipate from the merger, or as to the timing for their realization, or as to the expenses that will be incurred in connection with realizing synergy benefits from the merger. In particular, it may be difficult for VCP to realize anticipated cost savings from the merger of the two companies’ production facilities. It may also be difficult for VCP to realize anticipated synergy benefits from the joint acquisition of raw materials, sharing of improved production techniques and integration of administrative departments. Moreover, possible actions by antitrust authorities could limit or eliminate our ability to integrate our business operations with those of Aracruz and achieve synergies. 14 The exercise of appraisal rights by our preferred shareholders may reduce our cash balances or cause the cancellation of the corporate reorganization transaction. Our preferred shareholders have appraisal rights arising from the undertaking of the corporate reorganization as it concerns the conversion of all preferred shares into common shares. If holders of a significant number of our preferred shares exercise their appraisal rights, the requirement to make significant cash payments to honor such rights could decrease the cash balances of the combined entity or cause VCP’s management to cancel this transaction, as permitted under Brazilian Corporate Law. The appraisal rights period is until July 1, 2009 and VCP’s management have up to 10 days after July 1, 2009. While it is expected that shares of the new combined entity will be listed on the Bovespa’s Novo Mercado listing segment, there can be no assurance that such listing will occur in a timely fashion, if at all. The listing of the new combined entity’s shares on the Bovespa’s Novo Mercado listing segment is expected to occur sometime after the consummation of the corporate reorganization. However, there can be no assurance as to when such listing will occur in a timely fashion, if at all. Delays to complete such Novo Mercado listing may occur for a number of reasons, including the impossibility of the combined entity to meet the corporate governance standards of the Bovespa’s Novo Mercado listing segment or our controlling shareholder’s decision to abandon the listing application altogether. Delays or failure to list on the Bovespa’s Novo Mercado may adversely affect the trading price of shares of the combined entity’s shares and prevent shareholders from enjoying the enhanced corporate governance standards of the Bovespa’s Novo Mercado listing segment. If regulatory agencies impose conditions on the approval of the corporate reorganization, its anticipated benefits could be diminished. If regulators were to impose any requirements for the deal’s approval and we or Aracruz failed or had difficulties to comply with such requirements, the benefits of the corporate reorganization could be delayed, possibly for a significant period of time after shareholder approval for the transaction has been obtained. In addition, if governmental agencies conditioned their approval upon our or Aracruz’s compliance with conditions affecting the deal’s terms, our operating results or the value of our shares could be adversely affected. The Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica, or CADE, the Brazilian antitrust authority, is reviewing the business combination and has the authority to require us to dispose of assets or adopt other restrictive measures with a view to protecting competition. If we were required to dispose of assets or adopt any such restrictive measures following the completion of the transaction, the share price of the new combined entity or the competitive gains expected to be achieved with the transaction could be adversely affected. There is no clear guidance under Brazilian law regarding the income tax consequences to investors resulting from a corporate reorganization. There is no specific legislation, nor administrative or judicial precedent regarding the income tax consequences to investors resulting from a corporate reorganization. Based on the opinion of its external tax advisors, we believe that there are reasonable legal grounds to sustain that the receipt (resulting from the corporate reorganization) by a non-Brazilian holder of ADSs or by a U.S. person of shares that are registered as a foreign portfolio investment under Resolution 2,689 or are registered as a foreign direct investment under Law No. 4,131/62 would not be subject to income tax pursuant to Brazilian tax law. However, this position may not prevail, in which case we would be liable to the Brazilian tax authorities for withholding and collecting the taxable capital gains of shareholders resident abroad. While such shareholders would not be directly liable to Brazilian tax authorities, we would be entitled to reimbursements from them. 15 Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic and political conditions and perceptions of these conditions in the international market have a direct impact on our business, our access to international capital and debt markets, and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Our operations are conducted in Brazil, and in 2008 we sold approximately 41% (39% in 2007) of our products in terms of volume to our customers located in Brazil. Accordingly, our financial conditions and results of operations are substantially dependent on economic conditions in Brazil. Brazil’s gross domestic product (GDP), in real terms, grew by 3.8% in 2006, 5.4% in 2007 and 5.1% in 2008 (including a 3.6% decline in the fourth quarter of the year). As a result of this fourth quarter decline, among other factors, we cannot assure you that GDP will increase or remain stable in the future. Future developments in the Brazilian economy may affect Brazil’s growth rates and, consequently, the consumption of pulp and paper. As a result, these developments could impair our business strategies, financial condition or results of operations. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes material changes in policy and regulations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in government policies as well as general economic factors, including: · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · interest rates; · energy policy; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policy; and · other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Historically, the country’s political scenario has influenced the performance of the Brazilian economy and political crises have affected the confidence of investors and the general public, which resulted in economic deceleration and affected the trading prices of common and preferred shares issued by companies listed on the stock exchange. Future developments in policies of the Brazilian government and/or the uncertainty of whether and when such policies and regulations may be implemented, all of which are beyond the control of the Company and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Inflation and certain governmental measures to combat inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil has, in the past, experienced extremely high inflation rates. More recently, according to the Índice de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo (IPCA), the official price inflation index used by the government, the Brazilian inflation rates were at 5.7% in 2005, 3.1% in 2006, 4.5% in 2007 and 5.9% in 2008. Our cash costs and operating expenses are substantially denominated in reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation because our suppliers and providers generally increase prices to reflect the depreciation of the currency. If either the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than any rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar, then, as expressed in U.S. dollars, our operating expenses may increase. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, our costs of real-denominated debt may increase. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Overview—Brazilian Economic Environment.” 16 Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Because a significant portion of our revenues and assets is denominated in reais and we have U.S. dollar-denominated debt and other liabilities, we may be adversely affected by any future depreciations of the real against the U.S. dollar. The Brazilian currency has been devalued periodically during the last four decades. See “Item 3—Key Information—Selected Financial Data—Exchange Rates.” Our production costs and operating expenses are substantially all in reais and will generally increase, when expressed in U.S. dollars, as a result of local currency appreciation. If either the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than the rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the real or the rate of appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the real increases more rapidly than the rate of the Brazilian inflation, then, as expressed in U.S. dollars, our operating expenses may increase. In addition, any significant depreciation of the real may produce exchange losses on unhedged debt denominated in foreign currency. During the years 2006, 2007 and 2008 the real has appreciated against the dollar, 12%, 12% and 6%, respectively, in year average terms, even with the strong depreciation observed in the last 5 months of 2008. The Central Bank has intervened occasionally to control unstable movements in the foreign exchange rate. We cannot predict whether the Central Bank will continue to let the real float freely. Accordingly, it is not possible to predict what impact the Brazilian government’s exchange rate policies may have on us. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will not in the future impose a band within which the real/U.S. dollar exchange rate could fluctuate or set a fixed exchange rate, nor can we predict what impact such an event might have on our financial condition or results of operations. Depreciations of the real relative to the U.S. dollar also create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. They generally curtail access to foreign financial markets and may require government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. See “Item 3D—Key Information—Risk Factors—Inflation and certain governmental measures to combat inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets.” Depreciations also reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on our ADSs and the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. Foreign exchange fluctuation may impact the results of our derivative instruments, used in accordance with our hedging strategy. See “Item 11 – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Developments in other markets may adversely affect the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced by economic and market conditions in Brazil and, to varying degrees, market conditions in other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, the reaction of investors to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Developments or conditions in other emerging market countries have at times significantly affected the availability of credit in the Brazilian economy and resulted in considerable outflows of funds and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in Brazil. This could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs and our preferred shares. An eventual lack of liquidity could also make it difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. The current uncertainty about, among other things, the rate of growth and the lack of credit availability in the United States economy has created volatility in the worldwide financial markets, including the emerging markets. Prospective negative changes in the economy in the United States may adversely affect the market price of our preferred shares and ADSs. 17 Risks Relating to Our Preferred Shares and ADSs Exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad may adversely affect holders of our ADSs. You may be adversely affected if the Brazilian government imposes restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and, as it has done in the past, on the conversion of the real into foreign currencies. These restrictions could hinder or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of preferred shares or ADSs, as the case may be, into U.S. dollars and the remittance of U.S. dollars abroad. We cannot assure you that the government will not take this type of or similar measures in the future. Holders of our ADSs could be adversely affected by delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required governmental approval for conversion of real payments and remittances abroad in respect of the preferred shares, including the preferred shares underlying the ADSs. In such a case, our ADS depositary will distribute reais or hold the reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. Exchanging ADSs for the underlying preferred shares may have unfavorable consequences. The Brazilian custodian for the preferred shares must obtain an electronic certificate of registration from the Central Bank to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends, any other cash distributions, or upon the disposition of the preferred shares and sales proceeds related thereto. If you decide to exchange your ADSs for the underlying preferred shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely, for five business days from the date of exchange, on the ADS depositary’s electronic certificate of registration. Thereafter, you may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies outside Brazil upon the disposition of the preferred shares, or distributions relating to the preferred shares, and you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the preferred shares, unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of registration with the Central Bank, under Resolution No. 2,689 of January 26, 2000 of the National Monetary Council, which entitles foreign investors to buy and sell on the Brazilian stock exchanges. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer significant delays in the application process. Obtaining an electronic certificate of registration involves generating significant documentation, including completing and filing various electronic forms with the Central Bank and the CVM. In order to complete this process, the investor will need to appoint at least one representative in Brazil with powers to perform certain actions relating to the foreign investment and will usually need to have a consultant or an attorney who has expertise in Central Bank and CVM regulations. These expenses or delays could adversely impact your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the preferred shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. If you decide to exchange your preferred shares back into ADSs once you have registered your investment in the preferred shares, you may deposit your preferred shares with the custodian and rely on the ADS depositary’s electronic certificate of registration, subject to certain conditions. We cannot assure you that the ADS depositary’s electronic certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by you may not be affected by future legislative or other regulatory changes, or that additional restrictions applicable to you, the disposition of the underlying preferred shares or the repatriation of the proceeds from disposition could not be imposed in the future. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Dividend Policy and Dividends—Payment of dividends.” The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of our preferred shares or ADSs. Investments in securities, such as the preferred shares or the ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involve a higher degree of risk than investing in securities of issuers from more developed countries. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. Accordingly, the ability of the holders to sell the preferred shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which holders wish to do so may be substantially limited. The São Paulo Stock and Futures Exchange (Bolsa de Valores e Futuros de São Paulo), or BM&F BOVESPA, the main Brazilian stock exchange, had a market capitalization of approximately US$ 600 billion as of December 31, 2008, and an average daily trading volume of approximately US$ 1.1 billion, US$ 2.6 billion and US$ 3.0 billion in 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively. In comparison, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of approximately US$ 17 trillion as of December 31, 2008 (US$ 27 trillion and US$23 trillion, in 2007 and 2006 respectively) 18 Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to a disposition of our preferred shares or ADSs. Law No. 10,833 of December 29, 2003 provides that the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposition occurs outside or within Brazil. This provision results in the imposition of income tax on the gains arising from a disposition of our preferred shares by a nonresident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. There is no judicial guidance as to the application of Law No. 10,833 of December 29, 2003 and, accordingly, we are unable to predict whether Brazilian courts may decide that it applies to dispositions of our ADSs between non-residents of Brazil. However, in the event that the disposition of assets is interpreted to include a disposition of our ADSs, this tax law would accordingly result in the imposition of withholding taxes on the disposition of our ADSs by a nonresident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. Because any gain or loss recognized by a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax considerations”) will generally be treated as a U.S. source gain or loss unless such credit can be applied (subject to applicable limitations) against tax due on the other income treated as derived from foreign sources, such U.S. Holder would not be able to use the foreign tax credit arising from any Brazilian tax imposed on the disposition of our preferred shares. Because we are subject to specific rules and regulations as a Brazilian company, holders of our preferred shares or ADSs have fewer and less well- defined shareholders’ rights than investors in U.S. companies. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and the Brazilian corporate law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as Delaware or New York, or in certain other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, your rights or the rights of holders of the preferred shares under the Brazilian corporate law to protect your interests relative to actions taken by our Board of Directors or the holders of common shares may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Although Brazilian law imposes restrictions on insider trading and price manipulation, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the securities markets in the United States or certain other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and regarding the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well developed and enforced in Brazil than in the United States, potentially disadvantaging holders of our preferred shares and ADSs. When compared to Delaware general corporation law, the Brazilian corporate law and practice have less detailed and less well established rules and judicial precedents relating to the review of management decisions under duty of care and duty of loyalty standards in the context of corporate restructurings, transactions with related parties and sale-of-business transactions. In addition, shareholders must hold 5% of the outstanding share capital of a corporation to have standing to bring shareholders’ derivative suits, and shareholders ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action. The preferred shares underlying the ADSs have limited voting rights. Of our two classes of shares outstanding (common and preferred), only our common shares have full voting rights. Except in certain limited circumstances, our preferred shares will not be entitled to voting rights. As a result of these limited voting rights and the fact that our controlling shareholder owns approximately 100% of our common shares, our preferred shares, including in the form of the ADSs, generally will not be able to influence most of the corporate decisions requiring a shareholder vote. In addition, only shareholders appearing in our shareholder records are recognizable to us and given admission to our shareholders’ meetings. The record holder of the preferred shares underlying the ADSs is The Bank of New York, the depositary of our ADS program, and not our ADS holders. As a result, ADS holders depend on us and on the depositary to be represented at our shareholders’ meetings and vote the preferred shares underlying the ADSs in the very limited circumstances where our preferred shares may have a vote pursuant to Brazilian corporate law. Accordingly, even in the limited circumstances where our preferred shares may be entitled to a vote, the exercise of those limited voting rights might not be structured in a convenient and/or timely fashion, or not at all, for our ADS holders. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 19 Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our preferred shares. You may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the preferred shares underlying your ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available and the ADS depositary determines to make the rights available to you. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration applies, you may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of your preemptive rights by the ADS depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, the rights will be allowed to lapse. See “Item 10—Additional Information—Exchange Controls—Preemptive Rights.” ITEM 