Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of large operating losses and we expect to generate losses in the future unless we achieve further cost reductions and revenue increases. We have never been profitable. We have incurred losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception. As of July 1, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $954 million. Our net loss for the year ended July 1, 2006 was $87.5 million, which included an $18.8 million loss on conversion of convertible debt and early extinguishment of debt, a $11.7 million tax gain, and an aggregate of $11.2 million of restructuring charges. For the year ended July 2, 2005 our net loss was $248 million, which included goodwill and intangibles impairment charges of $114.2 million and restructuring charges of $20.9 million. Even though we generated positive gross margins in each of the past five fiscal quarters, we have a history of negative gross margins. In the quarter ended April 1, 2006, we experienced a decrease in margins when compared with the prior fiscal quarter, which is the result of a shift to lower margin products as we transition to new products, underutilization of our semiconductor facility located in Caswell, U.K. as a result of the changing product mix, and costs associated with the shutdown of certain production lines in our Paignton assembly and test facility. We may not be able to maintain positive gross margins if we do not address these issues, continue to reduce our costs, improve our product mix and generate sufficient revenues from new and existing customers to offset the revenues we will lose after Nortel Networks completes its “last-time-buy” purchases and its other purchases pursuant to the supply agreement, as amended. In order to continue as a going concern, we will need capital in excess of our current cash resources. Based on our cash balances, and given our continuing and expected losses for the foreseeable future, if we fail to meet management’s current cash flow forecasts, or we are unable to draw sufficient amounts under the three year $25 million senior secured revolving credit agreement with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. and other lenders, which was entered into in August 2006, for any reason, we will need to raise additional funding of at least $10 million to $20 million through external sources prior to July 2007 in order to maintain sufficient financial resources in order to operate as a going concern through the end of fiscal 2007. If necessary, we will attempt to raise additional funds by any one or a combination of the following: (i) completing the sale of certain assets; (ii) issuing equity, debt or convertible debt (iii) selling certain non core businesses. There can be no assurance of our ability to raise sufficient capital through the above, or any other efforts. 14 Table of Contents We remain highly dependent on sales to Nortel Networks and we expect revenues from Nortel Networks to decrease at least through calendar 2006. Historically, Nortel Networks has been our largest customer. In the fiscal year ended July 1, 2006 and in the fiscal year ended July 2, 2005, we sold $110.5 million and $89.5 million of products and services to Nortel Networks, or 48% and 45% of our total revenues, respectively. In connection with the third addendum to the supply agreement with Nortel Networks we entered into on January 13, 2006, Nortel Networks is obligated to purchase $72 million of our products through calendar year 2006. There can be no assurance Nortel Networks will continue to buy any of our products after the supply agreement, as amended, is completed, or if Nortel Networks does not continue to buy at its current level, that we can replace the loss of revenue from Nortel Networks with revenue from other customers. To the extent that we may rely on Nortel Networks for revenues in the future, Nortel Networks has experienced significant losses in the past and any future adverse change in Nortel Networks’ financial condition could adversely affect their demand for our products. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to evolving technologies and customer requirements. The market for telecommunications equipment is characterized by substantial capital investment and diverse and evolving technologies. For example, the market for optical components is currently characterized by a trend toward the adoption of “pluggable” components and tunable transmitters that do not require the customized interconnections of traditional fixed wave length “gold box” devices and the increased integration of components on subsystems. Our ability to anticipate and respond to these and other changes in technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products will be significant factors in our ability to succeed. We expect that new technologies will continue to emerge as competition in the telecommunications industry increases and the need for higher and more cost efficient bandwidth expands. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or unmarketable. We may encounter unexpected costs or delays in transferring our assembly and test operations from the United Kingdom to Shenzhen, China. A key element of our restructuring and cost reduction efforts is the successful transfer of substantially all of our assembly and test operations from Paignton, U.K. to Shenzhen, China. Accordingly, we expect that our ability to transfer manufacturing capabilities to, and to operate effectively in, China is critical to the overall success of our business. We began to implement the transfer of our assembly and test operations from Paignton to Shenzhen in the fall of 2004. The substantial portion of the manufacturing transfer has been completed as of July 1, 2006. In November 2005, we announced that our chip-on-carrier assembly will also be transferred from Paignton to Shenzhen. We expect that the transfer of chip-on-carrier assembly operation to Shenzhen will continue at least into the quarter ended December 31, 2006. In May 2006, we announced that substantially all remaining manufacturing and supply chain management and related activities in Paignton would also be transferred to Shenzhen, and that transfer will also continue at least into the quarter ended December 31, 2006. Our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if we experience delays in, increased costs related to, or if we are ultimately unable to: • qualify our manufacturing lines and the products we produce in Shenzhen, as required by our customers; • transfer our assembly and test equipment, including chip-on-carrier equipment, from Paignton to Shenzhen; • attract qualified personnel to operate our Shenzhen facility; • retain employees at our Shenzhen facility; • achieve the requisite production levels for products manufactured at our Shenzhen facility; and • wind down operations at our Paignton facility. 15 Table of Contents During the year ended July 1, 2006, we recorded significant unanticipated costs related to the wind-down of manufacturing activities in Paignton, and the transfer of the related activities to Shenzhen, and we may continue to do so in the future. If we continue to incur these unanticipated costs in connection with transferring certain operations to our Shenzhen facility, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. The market for optical components continues to be characterized by excess capacity and intense price competition which has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse affect on our results of operations. By 2002, actual demand for optical communications equipment and components was dramatically less than that forecasted by leading market researchers only two years before. Even though the market for optical components has been recovering recently, particularly in the metro market segment, there continues to be excess capacity, intense price competition among optical component manufacturers and continued consolidation of the industry. As a result of this excess capacity, and other industry factors, pricing pressure remains intense. The continued uncertainties in the telecommunications industry and the global economy make it difficult for us to anticipate revenue levels and therefore to make appropriate estimates and plans relating to cost management. Continued uncertain demand for optical components has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A default under our supply agreement with Nortel Networks would have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. We are party to a supply agreement with Nortel Networks that has been amended three times, most recently in January 2006. The supply agreement, as amended, requires that we grant a license for the assembly, test, post-processing and test intellectual property (but excluding wafer technology) of certain critical products to Nortel Networks and to any designated alternative supplier, if at any time, we: are unable to manufacture critical products for Nortel Networks in any material respect for a continuous period of not less than six weeks, or are subject to an insolvency event, such as a petition or assignment in bankruptcy, appointment of a trustee, custodian or receiver, or entrance into an arrangement for the general benefit of creditors. In addition, if there is an insolvency event, Nortel Networks will have the right to buy all Nortel Networks inventory we hold, and we will be obligated to grant a license to Nortel Networks or any alternative supplier for the manufacture of all products covered by the first addendum to the supply agreement. Our revenues and business would be substantially harmed if we were required to license this assembly, test, post-processing and test intellectual property to Nortel Networks or any supplier they were to designate. We and our customers are each dependent upon a limited number of customers. Historically, we have generated most of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Sales to one customer, Nortel Networks, accounted for 48% and 45% of our revenues for the year ended July 1, 2006 and the year ended July 2, 2005, respectively. In addition to the reduced outlook for revenue from Nortel Networks after the purchase orders under the supply agreement, as amended, are filled, we expect that revenue from our other major customers may decline or fluctuate significantly during the remainder of calendar year 2006 and beyond. We may not be able to offset any such decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers. Our dependence on a limited number of customers is due to the fact that the optical telecommunications systems industry is dominated by a small number of large companies. Similarly, our customers depend primarily on a limited number of major telecommunications carrier customers to purchase their products that incorporate our optical components. Many major telecommunication systems companies and telecommunication carriers are experiencing losses from operations. The further consolidation of the industry, coupled with declining revenues from our major customers, may have a material adverse impact on our business. 16 Table of Contents As a result of our global operations, our business is subject to currency fluctuations that have adversely affected our results of operations in recent quarters and may continue to do so in the future. Our financial results have been materially impacted by foreign currency fluctuations and our future financial results may also be materially impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. At certain times in our history, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the U.K. pound sterling have had a major negative effect on our profit margins and our cash flow. Despite our change in domicile from the United Kingdom to the United States and the implementation of our restructuring program to move all assembly and test operations from Paignton, U.K. to Shenzhen, China, the majority of our expenses are still denominated in U.K. pounds sterling and substantially all of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these two currencies and, to a lesser extent, other currencies in which we collect revenues and pay expenses will continue to have a material affect on our operating results. Additional exposure could result should the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Chinese Yuan vary more significantly than it has to date. We engage in currency transactions in an effort to cover any exposure to such fluctuations, and we may be required to convert currencies to meet our obligations. Under certain circumstances, these transactions can have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are increasing manufacturing operations in China, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in China. We are taking advantage of the comparatively low manufacturing costs in China by transferring substantially all of our assembly and test operations, chip-on-carrier operations and manufacturing and supply chain management operations to our facility in Shenzhen, China. Operations in China are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than our operations in other countries. In order to operate the facility, we must obtain and retain required legal authorization and train and hire a workforce. In particular, the political, legal and economic climate in China, both nationally and regionally, is fluid and unpredictable. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations such as those related to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property and other matters. In addition, we may not obtain or retain the requisite legal permits to continue to operate in China and costs or operational limitations may be imposed in connection with obtaining and complying with such permits. We have been advised that power may be rationed in the location of our Shenzhen facility, and were power rationing to be implemented, it could either have an adverse impact on our ability to complete manufacturing commitments on a timely basis or, alternatively, could require significant investment in generating capacity to sustain uninterrupted operations at the facility. Our ability to transfer chip-on-carrier operations and manufacturing and supply chain management operations from our facilities in the U.K. to China would be hindered by a power rationing. We may also be required to expend greater amounts than we currently anticipate in connection with increasing production at the facility. Any one of these factors, or a combination of them, could result in unanticipated costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We intend to export the majority of the products manufactured at our Shenzhen facility. Under current regulations, upon application and approval by the relevant governmental authorities, we will not be subject to certain Chinese taxes and will be exempt from certain duties on imported materials that are used in the manufacturing process and subsequently exported from China as finished products. However, Chinese trade regulations are in a state of flux, and we may become subject to other forms of taxation and duties in China or may be required to pay export fees in the future. In the event that we become subject to new forms of taxation in China, our business and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in operating results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. The timing of order placement, size of orders and satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria, as well as order or shipment delays or deferrals, with respect to our products, may cause material fluctuations in revenues. Our lengthy sales cycle, which may extend to more than one year, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary from period to period and it may be difficult to predict the timing and amount of any variation. Delays or deferrals in purchasing 17 Table of Contents decisions may increase as we develop new or enhanced products for new markets, including data communications, aerospace, industrial and military markets. Our current and anticipated future dependence on a small number of customers increases the revenue impact of each customer’s decision to delay or defer purchases from us. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future revenue sources and, as a result, net income for any quarterly period in which material orders fail to occur, or are delayed or deferred could vary significantly. Because of these and other factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be an indication of future performance. In future periods, results of operations may differ from the estimates of public market analysts and investors. Such a discrepancy could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may incur additional significant restructuring charges that will adversely affect our results of operations. Over the past five years, we have enacted a series of restructuring plans and cost reduction plans designed to reduce our manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses. In 2001, we reduced manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses in response to the initial decline in demand in the optics components industry. In connection with our acquisitions of Nortel Networks’ optical components business in November 2002 and New Focus in March 2004, we enacted restructuring plans related to the consolidation of our operations, which we expanded in September 2004 to include the transfer of our main corporate functions, including consolidated accounting, financial reporting, tax and treasury, from Abingdon, U.K. to our new U.S headquarters in San Jose, California. In May and November of 2004, we adopted additional restructuring plans, which included the transfer of our assembly and test operations from Paignton, U.K. to Shenzhen, China, a process that commenced in the quarter ended October 2, 2004. This transition was substantially complete by the end of March 2006, except for a chip-on-carrier assembly process we added to the transition plan in November 2005, and which we expect to be completed by the end of December 2006. In May 2006, we announced our latest cost reduction plans, which included transitioning all remaining manufacturing support and supply chain management, along with pilot line production and production planning, from Paignton to Shenzhen, also by the end of December, 2006. With respect to the transfer of the operations described in the previous paragraph, some of which are still in the process of being transferred, we have spent $22.6 million as of July 1, 2006, and we anticipate spending a total of approximately $30 million to $37 million, including $6.0 million to $7.0 million on the cost reduction plan announced in May 2006. The substantial portion of the remaining spending relates to personnel and personnel related costs. We expect the cost reduction plan announced in May 2006 to reduce our costs by between $5.5 million and $6.5 million a quarter, when compared to the expenses incurred in the quarter ended April 1, 2006, with the cost savings expected to be realized in the March 2007 quarter. We may incur charges in excess of amounts currently estimated for these restructuring and cost reduction plans. We may incur additional charges in the future in connection with future restructurings and cost reduction plans. These charges, along with any other charges, have adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our results of operations for the periods in which such charges have been, or will be, incurred. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory, and we may incur inventory-related charges. We need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements. The ability to accurately forecast customers’ product needs is difficult. Some of our products and supplies have in the past, and may in the future, become obsolete while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer specifications or a decrease in customer demand. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off unsaleable or obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have from time to time incurred significant inventory-related charges. During the year ended July 1, 2006, we incurred significant costs for inventory production variances associated with unanticipated shifts in the mix of our customers’ product orders. Any such charges we incur in future periods could significantly adversely affect our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We account for our acquisitions, including the acquisition of New Focus, using the purchase method of accounting. In accordance with GAAP, we allocate the total estimated purchase price to the acquired company’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of announcement of the transaction, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. With respect to our acquisition of New Focus, we expensed the portion of the estimated purchase price allocated to in-process research and development in the third quarter of fiscal 2004. We will incur an increase in the amount of amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisition on an annual basis. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In the year ended July 2, 2005, following a triggering event in the third quarter and in accordance with our policy of evaluating long-lived assets for impairment in the fourth quarter, we recorded charges totaling $114.2 million related to the impairment of goodwill and purchased intangible assets. In addition, in the past, after the completion of a transaction, we have amended the provisional values of assets and liabilities we obtained as part of transactions, specifically the acquisition of the optical components business of Nortel Networks. This amendment resulted in the value of our inventory being increased by $20.2 million, current liabilities being increased by approximately $1.3 million, intangible assets being decreased by approximately $9.1 million and property, plant and equipment being increased by $9.8 million. In March 2006, we acquired Avalon Photonics AG, and recorded $2.5 million as the value of goodwill and $2.2 million as the value of purchased intangible assets, both of which will be subject to reviews for impairment of value in the future. We cannot assure you that we will not incur charges in the future as a result of any such transaction, which charges may have an adverse effect on our earnings. Bookham Technology plc may not be able to utilize tax losses and other tax attributes against the receivables that arise as a result of its transaction with Deutsche Bank. On August 10, 2005, Bookham Technology plc purchased all of the issued share capital of City Leasing (Creekside) Limited, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank. Creekside is entitled to receivables of £73.8 million (approximately $135.8 million, based on an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.8403, the noon buying rate on September 2, 2005 for cable transfers in foreign currencies as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York) from Deutsche Bank in connection with certain aircraft subleases and will in turn apply those payments over a two-year term to obligations of £73.1 million (approximately $134.5 million based on an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.8403) owed to Deutsche Bank. As a result of these transactions, Bookham Technology plc will have available through Creekside cash of approximately £6.63 million (approximately $12.2 million based on an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.8405). We expect Bookham Technology plc to utilize certain expected tax losses and other tax attributes to reduce the taxes that might otherwise be due by Creekside as the receivables are paid. In the event that Bookham Technology plc is not able to utilize these tax losses and other tax attributes when U.K. tax returns are filed for the relevant periods (or these tax losses and other tax attributes do not arise), Creekside may have to pay taxes, reducing the cash available from Creekside. In the event there is a future change in applicable U.K. tax law, Creekside, and in turn Bookham Technology plc, would be responsible for any resulting tax liabilities, which amounts could be material to our financial condition or operating results. Our products are complex, may take longer to develop than anticipated and we may not recognize revenues from new products until after long field testing and customer acceptance periods. Many of our new products must be tailored to customer specifications. As a result, we are constantly developing new products and using new technologies in those products. For example, while we currently manufacture and sell “discrete gold box” technology, we expect that many of our sales of gold box technology will soon be replaced by pluggable modules. New products or modification to existing products often take many quarters to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. We often incur substantial costs associated with the research and development and sales and marketing activities in connection with products that may be purchased long after we have incurred the costs associated with designing, creating and selling such products. In addition, due to the rapid technological changes in 19 Table of Contents our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenue from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty, particularly in the present economic climate, the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, or the effect that any cancellation or modification would have on our results of operations. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. Our manufacturing lines have passed our qualification standards, as well as our technical standards. However, our customers may also require that we pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, encounter quality control issues as a result of relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain customer qualification of our manufacturing lines or we may experience delays in obtaining customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. Such delays would harm our operating results and customer relationships. Delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or the manufacturing operations of our subcontractors. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect gross margins, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues, competitive position and reputation. Furthermore, even if we are able to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, we may be unable to recognize revenues at the time of delivery based on our revenue recognition policies. We may experience low manufacturing yields. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Higher volumes due to demand for a fixed, rather than continually changing, design generally result in higher manufacturing yields, whereas lower volume production generally results in lower yields. In addition, lower yields may result, and have in the past resulted, from commercial shipments of products prior to full manufacturing qualification to the applicable specifications. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, either before, during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive or inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. We depend on a number of suppliers who could disrupt our business if they stopped, decreased or delayed shipments. We depend on a number of suppliers of raw materials and equipment used to manufacture our products. Some of these suppliers are sole sources. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, these suppliers generally may stop supplying materials and equipment at any time. The reliance on a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of materials or equipment we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders or our financial results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our intellectual property rights, including patents, design rights, trade secrets, trademarks, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We maintain an active program of identifying technology appropriate for patent protection. Our practice is to require employees and consultants to execute non-disclosure and proprietary rights agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting arrangements. These agreements acknowledge our exclusive ownership of all intellectual property developed by the individuals during their work for us and require that all proprietary information disclosed will remain confidential. Although such agreements may be binding, they may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions and any breach of a confidentiality obligation could have a very serious effect on our business and the remedy for such breach may be limited. Our intellectual property portfolio is an important corporate asset. The steps we have taken and may take in the future to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. We cannot assure investors that our competitors will not successfully challenge the validity of our patents or design products that avoid infringement of our proprietary rights with respect to our technology. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other similar technologies, that any patents will be issued from any application pending or filed by us or that, if patents are issued, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, we cannot assure investors that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights under those patents will provide a competitive advantage to us. Further, the laws of certain regions in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Asia-Pacific, Southeast Asia and Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, the U.K. and continental European countries. This is especially relevant as we transfer of our assembly and test operations and chip-on-carrier operations from our facilities in the U.K. to Shenzhen, China and as our competitors establish manufacturing operations in China to take advantage of comparatively low manufacturing costs. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others which could result in expensive litigation, require us to obtain a license to use the technology from third parties, or we may be prohibited from selling certain products in the future. Companies in the industry in which we operate frequently receive claims of patent infringement or infringement of other intellectual property rights. In this regard, third parties may in the future assert claims against us concerning our existing products or with respect to future products under development. We have entered into and may in the future enter into indemnification obligations in favor of some customers that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding that we are infringing other parties’ proprietary rights. If we do infringe a third party’s rights, we may need to negotiate with holders of patents relevant to our business. We have from time to time received notices from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property and where appropriate have entered into license agreements with those third parties with respect to that intellectual property. We may not in all cases be able to resolve allegations of infringement through licensing arrangements, settlement, alternative designs or otherwise. We may take legal action to determine the validity and scope of the third-party rights or to defend against any allegations of infringement. In the course of pursuing any of these means or defending against any lawsuits filed against us, we could incur significant costs and diversion of our resources. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, it is unlikely that we could increase our prices to cover such costs. In addition, such claims could result in significant penalties or injunctions that could prevent us from selling some of our products in certain markets or result in settlements that require payment of significant royalties that could adversely affect our ability to price our products profitably. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. Certain companies in the telecommunications and optical components markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Optical component 21 Table of Contents suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit our development of new products for our markets. Licenses granting us the right to use third-party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Our larger competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, which could result in lost sales and lower revenues. The market for fiber optic components is highly competitive and such competition could result in our existing customers moving their orders to competitors. Certain of our competitors may be able more quickly and effectively to: • respond to new technologies or technical standards; • react to changing customer requirements and expectations; • devote needed resources to the development, production, promotion and sale of products; and • deliver competitive products at lower prices. Many of our current competitors, as well as a number of our potential competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and industry alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, market leaders in industries such as semiconductor and data communications, who may also have significantly more resources than we do, may in the future enter our market with competing products. All of these risks may be increased if the market were to further consolidate through mergers or other business combinations between competitors. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors or that aggressive competition in the market will not result in lower prices for our products or decreased gross profit margins. Any such development would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues internationally and therefore are subject to additional risks associated with the extent of our international operations. For the year ended July 1, 2006, the year ended July 2, 2005, the six months ended July 3, 2004, and the year ended December 31, 2003, 21%, 28%, 26%, and 9% of our revenues, respectively, were derived in the United States and 79%, 72%, 74%, and 91%, respectively, were derived outside the United States. We are subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: • currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulty in enforcing or adequately protecting our intellectual property; • foreign taxes; • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets; and • foreign regulations. Any of these risks, or any other risks related to our foreign operations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our business will be adversely affected if we cannot manage the significant changes in the number of our employees and the size of our operations. We have significantly reduced the number of employees and scope of our operations because of declining demand for certain of our products and continue to reduce our headcount in connection with our on-going restructuring and cost reduction efforts. There is a risk that, during periods of growth or decline, management will not sufficiently coordinate the roles of individuals to ensure that all areas of our operations receive appropriate focus and attention. If we are unable to manage our headcount, manufacturing capacity and scope of operations effectively, the cost and quality of our products may suffer, we may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and we may be unable to market and develop new products. Further, the inability to successfully manage the substantially larger and geographically more diverse organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management, could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We may be faced with product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, there remains a risk that defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects and for consequential damages. They could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, we may assume product warranty liabilities related to companies we acquire which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In order to mitigate the risk of liability for damages, we carry product liability insurance with a $26 million aggregate annual limit and errors and omissions insurance with a $5 million annual limit. We cannot assure investors that this insurance could adequately cover our costs arising from defects in our products or otherwise. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for highly skilled technical people is extremely intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of services of these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similar to other technology companies, we rely upon our ability to use stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as key components of our executive and employee compensation structure. Historically, these components have been critical to our ability to retain important personnel and offer competitive compensation packages. Without these components, we would be required to significantly increase cash compensation levels (or develop alternative compensation structures) in order to retain our key employees. Accounting rules relating to the expensing of equity compensation may cause us to substantially reduce, modify, or even eliminate, all or portions of our equity compensation programs. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to interruption by events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, political instability, military conflict and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks, including a global economic slowdown, the economic consequences of additional military action or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the effect of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Litigation If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which may cause stockholders to lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial statements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. In addition, compliance with the internal control requirements, as well as other financial reporting standards applicable to a public company, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has in the past and will in the future continue to involve substantial cost and investment of our management’s time. Included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is management’s report on our internal controls over our financial reporting (See Item 9A.b) and Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation audit report thereon (See Item 9A.c), both of which identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as of July 1, 2006 related to the inconsistent classification of intercompany loan translation between two subsidiaries which led to an adjustment to translation gain/loss and to cumulative translation adjustment. As of July 2, 2005, we also reported on four additional material weaknesses in our systems of internal control over financial reporting. While we have implemented procedures to remediate these four material weaknesses, we are currently undertaking efforts to remediate the material weakness related to the inconsistent classification of the intercompany loan translation. In fiscal 2007, and beyond, we will continue to spend significant time and incur significant costs to assess and report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Discovering additional material weaknesses in the future could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, which could harm our business. In addition, if we discover future material weaknesses, disclosure of that fact could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements, which could harm our stock price and our ability to raise capital. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability and increase our costs. We historically handled small amounts of hazardous materials as part of our manufacturing activities and now handle more and different hazardous materials as a result of the manufacturing processes related to New Focus, the optical components business acquired from Nortel Networks and the product lines we acquired from Marconi. Consequently, our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use and handling of hazardous substances and waste disposal. We may be required to incur environmental costs to comply with current or future environmental laws. As with other companies engaged in manufacturing activities that involve hazardous materials, a risk of environmental liability is inherent in our manufacturing activities, as is the risk that our facilities will be shut down in the event of a release of hazardous waste. The costs associated with environmental compliance or remediation efforts or other environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business. In addition, under applicable EU regulations, we, along with other electronics component manufacturers, are prohibited from using lead and certain other hazardous materials in our products. We have incurred unanticipated expenses in connection with the related reconfiguration of our products, and could lose business or face product returns if we failed to implement these requirements properly or on a timely basis. Litigation regarding Bookham Technology plc’s initial public offering and follow-on offering and any other litigation in which we become involved, including as a result of acquisitions, may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. On June 26, 2001, a putative securities class action captioned Lanter v. New Focus, Inc. et al., Civil Action No. 01-CV-5822, was filed against New Focus, Inc. and several of its officers and directors, or the New Focus Individual Defendants, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Also named as defendants were Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, Chase Securities, Inc., U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray, Inc. and CIBC World Markets Corp., or the Underwriter Defendants, the underwriters in New Focus’s initial public offering. Three subsequent lawsuits were filed containing substantially similar allegations. These complaints have been 24 Table of Contents consolidated. On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed an amended class action complaint, described below, naming as defendants the New Focus Individual Defendants and the Underwriter Defendants. On November 7, 2001, a class action complaint was filed against Bookham Technology plc and others in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, or the Amended Complaint. The Amended Complaint names as defendants Bookham Technology plc, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and FleetBoston Robertson Stephens, Inc., two of the underwriters of Bookham Technology plc’s initial public offering in April 2000, and Andrew G. Rickman, Stephen J. Cockrell and David Simpson, or the Bookham Individual Defendants, each of whom was an officer and/or director at the time of the initial public offering. The Amended Complaint asserts claims under certain provisions of the securities laws of the United States. It alleges, among other things, that the prospectuses for Bookham Technology plc’s and New Focus’s initial public offerings were materially false and misleading in describing the compensation to be earned by the underwriters in connection with the offerings, and in not disclosing certain alleged arrangements among the underwriters and initial purchasers of ordinary shares, in the case of Bookham Technology plc, or common stock, in the case of New Focus, from the underwriters. The Amended Complaint seeks unspecified damages (or in the alternative rescission for those class members who no longer hold our or New Focus common stock), costs, attorneys’ fees, experts’ fees, interest and other expenses. In October 2002, the New Focus Individual Defendants and the Bookham Individual Defendants were dismissed, without prejudice, from the action. In July 2002, all defendants filed motions to dismiss the Amended Complaint. The motion was denied as to Bookham Technology plc and New Focus in February 2003. Special committees of the board of directors authorized the companies to negotiate a settlement of pending claims substantially consistent with a memorandum of understanding negotiated among class plaintiffs, all issuer defendants and their insurers. Plaintiffs and most of the issuer defendants and their insurers have entered into a stipulation of settlement for the claims against the issuer defendants, including Bookham and New Focus. Under the stipulation of settlement, the plaintiffs will dismiss and release all claims against participating defendants in exchange for a payment guaranty by the insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in the related cases, and the assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of certain claims the issuer defendants may have against the underwriters. On February 15, 2005, the court issued an Opinion and Order preliminarily approving the settlement provided that the defendants and plaintiffs agree to a modification narrowing the scope of the bar order set forth in the original settlement agreement. The parties agreed to the modification narrowing the scope of the bar order, and on August 31, 2005, the court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement and setting a public hearing on its fairness which took place on April 24, 2006. The judge has yet to issue a decision on this hearing. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any litigation to which we are subject may be costly and, further, could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. A variety of factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to be volatile or decline. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile due to causes in addition to publication of our business results, such as: • announcements by our competitors and customers of their historical results or technological innovations or new products; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • governmental regulatory action; and • general market conditions. Since Bookham Technology plc’s initial public offering in April 2000, Bookham Technology plc’s ADSs and ordinary shares, our shares of common stock and the shares of our customers and competitors have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations, in many cases without any direct relationship to the affected company’s 25 Table of Contents operating performance. An outgrowth of this market volatility is the significant vulnerability of our stock price and the stock prices of our customers and competitors to any actual or perceived fluctuation in the strength of the markets we serve, regardless of the actual consequence of such fluctuations. As a result, the market prices for these companies are highly volatile. These broad market and industry factors caused the market price of Bookham Technology plc’s ADSs and ordinary shares, and our common stock to fluctuate, and may in the future cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, regardless of our actual operating performance or the operating performance of our customers. The future sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the price of our common stock. As of July 1, 2006, affiliates of Nortel Networks held 3,999,999 shares of our common stock. Other stockholders or groups of stockholders also hold significant percentages of our shares of common stock. In January and March 2006, pursuant to a series of transactions we issued an aggregate of 10,507,158 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,086,001 shares of common stock in connection with the payment and subsequent cancellation of the promissory notes we issued to Nortel Networks and the conversion and subsequent cancellation of $25.5 million aggregate principle amount of convertible debentures. On September 1, 2006, we entered into an agreement to sell 8,696,000 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 2,174,00 shares of our common stock, in a private placement. In connection with that private placement certain institutional investors have the right to purchase, on or before September 19, 2006, up to an additional 2,898,667 shares of common stock and additional warrants to purchase up to 724,667 shares of common stock at the same purchase price sold to the initial purchasers in the private placement. Sales by Nortel Networks or other holders of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public or private market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by increasing the supply of shares available for sale compared to the demand in the public and private markets to buy our common stock. These sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to meet our capital needs. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and under Delaware laws could hinder a takeover attempt. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of the stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitations of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors serving three-year terms and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. These provisions also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 