Risk Factors.” Overview We are a leading business-to-business (B2B) media company and a primary facilitator of two-way trade with Greater China. We provide sourcing information to volume buyers and integrated marketing services to suppliers. Our mission is to facilitate global trade between buyers and suppliers by providing the right information, at the right time, in the right format. Although our range of media has grown, for more than 35 years we have been in the same basic business of helping buyers worldwide find products and suppliers in Asia. We believe we offer the most extensive range of media and export marketing services to our suppliers in the industries we serve through our four primary channels - online marketplaces, magazines, trade shows and direct online sales. We were originally incorporated under the laws of Hong Kong in 1970. In 1971, we launched Asian Sources, a trade magazine to serve global buyers importing products in volume from Asia. Realizing the importance of the Internet, we became one of the first providers of business to business online services by launching Asian Sources Online in 1995. In 1999, we changed the name of Asian Sources Online to Global Sources Online. In April 2000, we completed a share exchange with a publicly traded company based in Bermuda, and our shareholders became the majority shareholders of the Bermuda corporation. As a result of the share exchange, we became incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and changed our name to Global Sources Ltd. -27- Revenue We derive revenue from three principal sources. Online services— Our primary service is creating and hosting marketing websites that present suppliers’ products and company information in a consistent and easily searchable manner on Global Sources Online. We also derive revenue from banner advertising fees. Other media services— We publish trade magazines, which consist primarily of product advertisements from suppliers and our independent editorial reports and product surveys. We publish our core trade magazines monthly, and a host of specialized magazines seasonally. Suppliers pay for advertising in our trade magazines to promote their products and companies. We also derive revenue from buyers that subscribe to our trade publications. We recognize revenue from our Online and other media services ratably over the period in which the advertisement is displayed. Our advertising contracts do not exceed one year. Exhibitions - trade shows and seminars - Our China Sourcing Fairs offer international buyers direct access to China and other Asian manufacturers. The first China Sourcing fair was held during the fourth quarter of 2003. We held two series of three China Sourcing fairs in each the second quarter and fourth quarter of 2004 and a series of two China Sourcing fairs in each the second quarter and fourth quarter of 2005. Future China Sourcing fairs will be held mainly in the second quarter and fourth quarter of each financial year. International IC China Conferences and Exhibitions were held in March 2004 last year and these same exhibitions were held in April 2005 in current year. We derive revenue from exhibit space rental, advertising and sponsorship fees for advertisements in show guide, on billboards and banners and other forms of advertisements at and around our event venues. We also receive fees from attendees to our conferences held during the events. We recognize exhibitor services revenue at the conclusion of the related events. As a result, second quarter and fourth quarter revenue will be higher than the first and third quarter revenue. Revenue from exhibitions will grow as a percentage of total revenue in future years as we hold more China Sourcing Fairs. Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this document. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies: Revenue Recognition We derive our revenue primarily from receipt of advertising fees in our published trade magazines and websites, sale of trade magazines and reports, receipt of fees from licensing our trade and service marks, organizing exhibitions and business seminars and commission income from consignment sales. Revenue from advertising in trade magazines and websites is recognized ratably over the period in which the advertisement is displayed. Advertising contracts do not exceed one year. When multiple deliverables are contracted under a single arrangement, we allocate the total consideration to each unit of accounting on a pro-rata method based on its relative percentage of the total fair value of all units of accounting included in the arrangement. Revenue from sales of trade magazines and reports is recognized upon delivery of the magazine / report. Magazine subscriptions received in advance are deferred and recognized as revenue upon delivery of the magazine. Revenue from organizing exhibitions and business seminars is recognized at the conclusion of the event and the related direct event production costs are deferred and recognized as expenses upon conclusion of the event. We received license fees and currently receive royalties from licensing our trade and service marks. Revenue from license fees was recognized ratably over the term of the license. Royalties from license arrangements are earned ratably over the period in which the advertisement is displayed by the licensee. -28- We derive commission income on the re-sale of our customers’ products on a consignment basis. The commission income which is the sales proceeds, net of the cost of the purchased products payable to the consigner is recognized upon conclusion of the sale to the buyer. The correct measurement of timing and the duration of the contracts with our customers are essential to the recognition of our revenue. Any delays in recognizing the revenue could cause our operating results to vary significantly from period to period. In addition our revenue recognition determines the timing of certain expenses such as commissions, circulation expenses, and direct event production costs. Capitalization of Development Costs of Software for Internal Use We adopted Statement of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.” Costs incurred in the preliminary project stage with respect to the development of software for internal use are expensed as incurred; costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and are amortized over the estimated useful life of three years upon the commissioning of service of the software. Training and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. To account for the development costs related to the products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, we adopted SFAS No. 86, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed.” Development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of the technological feasibility of the product are capitalized. The capitalization ends when the product is available for general release to customers. Our policies on capitalized software development costs determine the timing and our recognition of certain development costs. In addition, these policies determine whether the costs are capitalized or recorded as expenses. Estimation of Allowance for Doubtful Debts The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities in our financial statements. We estimate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based on our analysis of the accounts receivable, historical bad debts, customer creditworthiness and current economic trends. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain adequate allowance for doubtful accounts. While credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the allowances we established, if the bad debts significantly exceed our provisions, our operating results and liquidity would be adversely affected. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Property and equipment are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are based on our estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue and can be productively employed. We periodically review the carrying values of our long-lived assets and recognize an impairment loss whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. The recoverability of an asset is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment loss, measured based on the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and its fair value, is recognized. While we believe our estimation of the useful lives and future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such useful lives and cash flows could materially affect our valuations. Exhibition events promotion costs The event specific promotion costs for our exhibition events incurred in the interim quarterly periods are deferred and recognized as expenses when the related events are held during the financial year. The event specific promotion -29- costs incurred for events to be held in the future financial years are expensed by the year-end in which such expenses are incurred. Proper identification of the promotion expenses to the particular events is essential to recognize the costs correctly to the respective events and in the respective interim periods. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 Income statement data: Revenue: Online and other media services 95 % 87 % 86 % Exhibitions 4 12 13 Miscellaneous 1 1 1 Total revenue 100 100 100 Operating expenses: Sales 33 28 30 Event production 1 4 4 Community 14 17 18 General and administrative 30 29 30 Online services development 5 4 3 Non-cash compensation 2 2 2 Other 5 1 1 Total operating expenses 90 85 88 Income from operations 10 % 15 % 12 % Net income 8 % 15 % 12 % The following table represents our revenue by geographical areas as a percentage of total revenue: Year Ended December 31, 2003 2004 2005 Asia 93 % 92 % 93 % United States 6 6 6 Europe 1 1 1 Others 0 1 0 Total revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Fiscal Year 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year 2004 Revenue Total revenue grew to $112.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 from $105.8 million during year ended December 31, 2004, a growth of 6%. Our online and other media services revenue grew by $4.8 million or 5% to $97.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, as compared with $92.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 due to a 13% growth in our China market and the growth in our Hong Kong and Taiwan markets off-set by drop in some of our other markets during the year ended December 31, 2005. China represented 48% of Online and other media services revenue during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 45% during the year ended December 31, 2004. Our exhibitions revenue grew from $13.0 million during the year ended Decem- -30- ber 31, 2004 to $14.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a growth of 10%, due mainly to growth in revenue of our International IC China Conferences and Exhibitions for the year 2005. We have made substantial progress in developing our customer base in China, our largest market. Total revenue from China grew by 12% during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to the year ended December 31, 2004. China accounted for 50% of total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to 47% of total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2004. We expect China as a percent of total revenue to continue to grow and China revenue overall to continue to grow. Operating expenses Sales We utilize independent sales representatives employed by independent sales representative organizations in various countries and territories to promote our products and services. Under these arrangements, the sales representative organizations are entitled to commissions as well as marketing fees. Commission expense is recorded when the associated revenue is recognized or when the associated accounts receivable are paid, whichever is earlier, and is included in sales expenses. Sales costs consist of the commissions and marketing fees paid and incentives provided to our independent sales representative organizations, as well as sales support fees for processing sales contracts. These representative organizations sell online services, advertisements in our trade magazines and exhibitor services and earn a commission as a percentage of revenue generated. Sales costs increased from $30.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 to $33.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, due to an increase in sales commissions as a result of increase in revenue and increase in sales marketing costs and sales promotions for exhibitions. Event Production Event production costs consist of the costs incurred for hosting the exhibition or trade show and seminar events. The event production costs include venue rental charges, booth construction costs, travel costs incurred for the event hosting and other event organizing costs. The event production costs are deferred and recognized as an expense when the related event occurs. Event production costs increased from $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $3.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, an increase of 3% due to increase in venue rental charges. Community Effective from the year 2005 we are presenting the promotions costs incurred for promoting our technical conferences, exhibitions and seminars to buyer community and the printing and mailing costs of our marketing inserts business under community costs in our income statement. Accordingly such promotion costs and printing and mailing costs for year 2004 have been reclassified to community costs from general and administrative costs to conform to our current presentation. Community costs consist of the costs incurred for servicing our buyer community and for marketing our products and services to the global buyer community. Community costs also include costs relating to our trade magazine publishing business and marketing inserts business, specifically printing, paper, bulk circulation, magazine subscription promotions, promotions for our on-line services, customer services costs, payroll costs relating to staff working on these activities and the event specific promotions costs incurred for promoting the China Sourcing Fairs events and the technical conferences, exhibitions and seminars to the buyer community. The event specific promotion costs for the exhibition events incurred in the interim quarterly periods are deferred and recognized as expenses when the related events are held during the financial year. The event specific promotion costs incurred for events to be held in the future financial years are expensed by the year-end in which the expenses are incurred. -31- Community costs increased from $17.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $20.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, an increase of 15% due mainly to increase in bulk mailing costs, printing charges, paper costs, fees paid to consultants and promotion costs for our exhibition events. In addition, we increased our participation in third party trade shows to promote our products and services to buyer community. We also incurred promotions for our online services and these are expensed as incurred. As a result of the increase in these activities, we recorded an increase in payroll costs. General and Administrative General and administrative costs consist mainly of corporate staff compensation, information technology support services, content management services, marketing costs, office rental, depreciation, communication and travel costs. General and administrative costs increased by 11% from $30.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $33.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, due mainly to increases in information technology support services costs, content management services costs, marketing costs, depreciation and building management fees on new office premises that we purchased, administration support costs for our exhibitions and trade shows activity, travel costs and payroll costs. Online Services Development Online services development costs consist mainly of payroll, office rental and depreciation costs relating to the updating and maintenance of Global Sources Online. Online services development costs to fund the updating and maintenance of our online services declined from $4.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $3.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decline of 7%. This decline resulted mainly from a decline in depreciation costs and equipment and software maintenance costs. Non-Cash Compensation Expense We have issued share awards under several equity compensation plans (ECP) to both employees and team members. We also recognize non-cash compensation expenses relating to the shares purchased by our directors under Directors Purchase Plan. The total non-cash compensation expense, resulting from the ECP and the Directors Purchase Plan, recorded by us declined by 10% from $2.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $1.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The decline was a result of the re-measurement of equity compensation expense based on our prevailing share price and forfeiture of the unvested awards to the resigned staff. The corresponding amounts for the non-cash compensation expenses are credited to shareholders’ equity. Other Non-cash Expenses Other non-cash expenses consist of amortization of software costs. Amortization of software cost during the year ended December 31, 2005 was $1.3 million compared to $1.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Income From Operations The total income from operations during the year ended December 31, 2005 was $12.9 million compared to $16.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The decline was mainly due to increases in sales costs, event production costs, community costs and general and administrative costs, off-set partially by growth in revenue and declines in online services development costs, non-cash compensation expenses and amortization of software costs. Income from operations for online and other media services declined from $17.7 million during the year ended De- -32- cember 31, 2004 to $13.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, a decline of 24%. The decline resulted mainly from increases in sales costs, community costs and general and administrative costs, off-set partially by growth in online and other media services revenue and declines in online services development costs, non-cash compensation expenses and amortization of software costs. Gain (loss) on Sale of Available-for-sale Securities We recorded a gain of $1.0 million arising from the sale of available-for-sale securities and interest and dividend income of $1.3 million arising from available-for-sale securities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to $1.1 million gain and interest and dividend income of $0.09 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Income Taxes We and certain of our subsidiaries operate in the Cayman Islands and other jurisdictions where there are no taxes imposed on companies. Certain of our subsidiaries operate in Hong Kong SAR and Singapore and are subject to income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. Also, we are subject to withholding taxes for revenue earned in certain other countries. We reported a tax provision of $0.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2005 and $0.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Net Income Net income was $13.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to a net income of $15.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. The decline was mainly due to increases in sales costs, event production costs, community costs, general and administrative costs, foreign exchange losses, tax provision, share of profits attributable to a minority shareholder and decline in gain on sale of available-for-sale securities, off-set partially by increases in revenue, interest and dividend income and declines in online services development costs, non-cash compensation expenses and amortization of software costs. Fiscal Year 2004 Compared to Fiscal Year 2003 Revenue Our total revenue grew to $105.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 from $91.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2003, a growth of 15%. Our online and other media services revenue grew by $4.6 million or 5% to $92.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, as compared with $87.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 due primarily to a 9% growth in our China market and the growth in our Hong Kong, Japan and USA markets off-set by drop in some of our other markets during the year. Our exhibitions revenue grew from $3.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $13.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a growth of 294%, due mainly to increase in number of our China Sourcing Fairs events held in year 2004. We have made substantial progress in developing our customer base in China, our largest market. Revenue from China grew by 26% during the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003 partially as a result of increase in China Sourcing Fairs revenue. China accounted for 47% of total revenue during the year ended December 31, 2004. Operating expenses Sales Sales costs consist of the commissions and marketing fees paid and incentives provided to our independent sales representative organizations, as well as sales support fees for processing sales contracts. These representative or- -33- ganizations sell online services, advertisements in our trade magazines and exhibitor services and earn a commission as a percentage of revenue generated. Sales costs marginally declined from $30.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $30.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, due to increase in sales commissions as a result of increase in revenue, off-set by reduction in sales marketing costs and a $0.7 million write-back of provision for doubtful debts no longer required due to improvement in our collections performance. Event Production Event production costs consist of the costs incurred for hosting the exhibition or trade show and seminar events. The event production costs include venue rental charges, booth construction costs, travel costs incurred for the event hosting and other event organizing costs. The event production costs are deferred and recognized as an expense when the related event occurs. Event production costs increased from $0.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $3.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, due to increase in number of our China Sourcing Fairs events held in the year 2004. Community Community costs consist of the costs incurred for servicing our buyer community and for marketing our products and services to the global buyer community. Community costs also include costs relating to our trade magazine publishing business, specifically printing, paper, bulk circulation, magazine subscription promotions, promotions for our on-line services, customer services costs and the event specific promotions costs incurred for promoting the China Sourcing Fairs events to the buyer community. Community costs increased from $13.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $17.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, an increase of 36% due mainly to increase in event specific promotion costs incurred for promoting our China Sourcing Fairs events held in the second and fourth quarters of 2004 to the buyer community. We also recorded $0.4 million event specific promotion costs incurred for our China Sourcing Fairs to be held in second and fourth quarters of 2005 in Shanghai, China and our Sourcing Fairs to be held in second and fourth quarters of 2006 in Hong Kong. We recorded increases in bulk mailing costs, printing charges, paper costs and magazine subscription promotion costs for our print publications business and promotions for our online services and these are expensed as incurred. In addition, we increased our participation in third party trade shows to promote our products and services to the buyer community. As a result of the increase in these activities, we recorded an increase in payroll costs. General and Administrative General and administrative costs consist mainly of corporate staff compensation, information technology support services, content management services, marketing costs, office rental, depreciation, communication and travel costs. General and administrative costs increased by 9% from $27.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $30.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, due mainly to increases in content management services costs, marketing costs, fees paid to consultants, professional fees paid in connection with the filing of our shelf registration statement, and administration support costs for our exhibitions and trade shows activity. Online Services Development Online services development costs consist mainly of payroll, office rental and depreciation costs relating to the updating and maintenance of Global Sources Online. Online services development costs to fund the updating and maintenance of our online services declined from $5.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $4.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a de- -34- cline of 16%. This decline resulted mainly from a decline in depreciation costs off-set partially by increase in fees paid to consultants Non-Cash Compensation Expenses We have issued share awards under several equity compensation plans (ECP) to both employees and team members. We also recognize non-cash compensation expenses relating to the shares purchased by our directors under Directors Purchase Plan. The total non-cash compensation expense, resulting from the ECP, recorded by us increased by 50% from $1.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $2.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 due mainly to new share awards in January 2004, re-measurement of equity compensation expense based on our prevailing share price and forfeiture of the unvested awards to the resigned staff. The corresponding amounts for the non-cash compensation expenses are credited to shareholders’ equity. Other Non-Cash Expenses Other non-cash expenses consist of amortization of software costs. Amortization of software cost during the year ended December 31, 2004 were $1.5 million, compared to $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Income From Operations The total income from operations during the year ended December 31, 2004 was $16.1 million compared to $8.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The improvement was primarily due to growth in revenue and declines in online services development costs, and amortization of software costs, off-set partially by an increase in event production costs, community costs, general and administrative costs and non-cash compensation expenses. Income from operations for online and other media services grew from $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2003 to $17.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, a growth of 88%. The growth resulted mainly from growth in online and other media services revenue, declines in online services development costs and amortization of software costs, off-set partially by increases in community costs, general and administrative costs and non-cash compensation expense. Gain (loss) on Sale of Available-for-Sale Securities We recorded a gain of $1.1 million arising from the sale of available-for-sale securities and an interest and dividend income of $0.09 million arising from the available-for-sale securities during the year ended December 31, 2004. Income Taxes We and certain of our subsidiaries operate in the Cayman Islands and other jurisdictions where there are no taxes imposed on companies. Certain of our subsidiaries operate in Hong Kong SAR and Singapore and are subject to income taxes in their respective jurisdictions. Also, we are subject to withholding taxes for revenue earned in certain other countries. We reported a tax provision of $0.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 and during the year ended December 31, 2003. Net Income Net income was $15.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to a net income of $7.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2003. The improvement was mainly due to growth in revenue, increases in interest income, gain on sale of available-for-sale securities and foreign exchange gains, after charging increases in, -35- event production costs, community costs, general and administrative costs, non-cash compensation expenses and increase in the share of profits attributable to a minority shareholder during the year ended December 31, 2004 due to profitable performance of a subsidiary, off-set partially by declines in online services development costs and amortization of software costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources We financed our activities for the year ended December 31, 2005 using cash generated from our operations. Net cash generated from operating activities was $35.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to $22.5 million cash generated from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2004. The primary source of cash from operating activities was collections from our customers received through our independent sales representative organizations. Advance payments received from customers were $53.0 million as of December 31, 2005, compared to $30.2 million as at December 31, 2004, improving our liquidity. A majority of our customers in China pay us in advance for our Online and other media services business. Our Exhibitions business collections are all advance payments. We expect the growth in our revenues from China to continue and we plan to launch more Exhibition events in the future. As a result, we expect that the advance payments received from customers to continue to increase in the future as our revenue increases. Receivable from sales representatives increased from $3.4 million as of December 31, 2004 to $5.7 million as of December 31, 2005 due to the growth in our China business and our exhibitions business. We expect the receivable from sales representatives to slightly increase due to expected growth in our China business and our Exhibitions business. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain an adequate allowance for doubtful accounts. While credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the allowances established, if the bad debts significantly exceed our provisions, additional allowances may be required in future. Net cash used for investing activities was $20.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting mainly from the net purchases of available-for-sale securities of $13.8 million and $7.3 million cash used for capital expenditures mainly on office premises, for computers, software, reusable tradeshow booths, leasehold improvements, office furniture and software development, off-set partially by $0.2 million proceeds from matured bonds. Net cash generated from investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2004 was $3.8 million, which resulted principally from net sale of available-for-sale securities of $24.5 million and $0.4 million proceeds from matured bonds off-set partially by $21.1 million capital expenditures for purchase of office premises then under construction, computers, software, software development, office furniture and leasehold improvements. Capital expenditures during the three months period ended March 31, 2006 amounted to $0.7 million and were incurred mainly for computers, software, office furniture, leasehold improvements and software development. Our capital expenditures were financed using cash generated from our operations. The net book value of capital assets disposed during the year ended December 31, 2005 and the three months ended March 31, 2006 amounted to $0.09 million and $NIL, respectively. We invest our excess cash in available-for-sale securities to generate income from interest received as well as capital gains, while the funds are held to support our business. The majority of the available-for-sale securities have maturities of less than 3 months. Generally, we hold the securities with specified maturity dates such as Treasury Bills until their maturity but the securities managed by high quality institutions that do not have fixed maturity dates are generally sold on a quarterly basis and proceeds reinvested in similar securities. The net purchase of available-for-sales securities of $13.8 million was from the funds we received from issue of common shares during the first half of the year. -36- We do not engage in buying and selling of securities with the objective of generating profits on short-term differences in price. Net cash generated from financing activities was $38.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2005, resulting from the $38.3 million proceeds from the issue of common shares, net of share issue expenses and $0.1 million received from directors for the shares subscribed by them in the Directors Purchase Plan. Net cash used for financing activities was $11.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2004, resulting from a repayment of $11.4 million owed to a shareholder, offset partially by $0.1 million received from directors for the shares subscribed by them in the Directors Purchase Plan. On March 23, 2005 we issued 3,000,000 common shares of par value $0.01 at US$13.50 per share. The total proceeds received from this issue was approximately $38.3 million, net of the offering expenses of $2.2 million. Out of the total proceeds, $0.03 million was included in the common share capital and the balance approximately $38.27 million was included in additional paid in capital. We intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of our common shares of approximately $38.3 million for working capital, general corporate purposes and strategic acquisitions. We hold a Documentary Credit facility with the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, for providing documentary credits to our suppliers. This facility has a maximum limit of approximately $0.6 million. As at December 31, 2005, the unutilized amount under this facility was approximately $0.3 million. Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited has also provided a guarantee on our behalf to our suppliers. As at December 31, 2005, such guarantee amounted to $0.003 million. We recorded a full valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets of $7.4 million as at December 31, 2005 as it was more likely than not that they would not be realized. These deferred tax assets resulted from the net operating losses in some of our subsidiaries. During the first quarter of 2004, we entered into a number of license agreements for our exhibition events amounting to $29.7 million in payments over five years. The agreements are cancelable under Force Majeure conditions, and with the consent of the other party but may be subject to a payment penalty. As of December 31, 2005, we paid $5.0 million under these agreements. The amounts paid will be expensed when the related events are held. We also entered into several agreements for the event specific promotion of our exhibition events amounting to $4.0 million, in payments over four years. As of December 31, 2005, we paid $1.5 million under these agreements. During the third quarter of 2004, we entered into an agreement to purchase approximately 9,000 sq meters of office space in a commercial building in Shenzhen, China at a purchase price of $19.0 million, which was fully paid during the year 2004. The construction was completed by end of March 2005. The renovation of the premises was completed and the premises was occupied during fourth quarter of 2005. In August 2005, one of our subsidiaries, eMedia Asia Limited (“eMedia”) entered into an agreement with Penton Media Inc, (“Penton”) to publish and distribute, in certain Asian territories, local language editions of Penton’s “Electronic Design” publication, relating to the electronic design industry. The first edition to be launched was a simplified Chinese edition in mainland China entitled “ Electronic Design-China”, the online website of which was launched in January 2006, and the first monthly issue of which was launched in March 2006. Under the agreement eMedia pays Penton forty per cent of the net after-tax profits of the business and also an annual content license fee for usage of Penton’s editorial material. There was no revenue generated from this publication during the year 2005. -37- The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as at December 31, 2005: Payments due by period (in U.S. Dollars Thousands) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Contractual Obligations Operating leases $ 350 $ 350 - - - Liabilities for incentive and bonus plans 467 160 307 - - Purchase obligations 3,555 2,337 1,218 - - Total $ 4,372 $ 2,847 $ 1,525 - - On March 1, 2005, we announced a one for ten bonus share issue on our outstanding common shares. Shareholders of record on March 4, 2005 received one additional common share for every ten common shares held, of face value of $0.01 each. The bonus share issue was distributed on April 1, 2005. We have reclassified $0.029 million from additional paid in capital to common share capital as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, in connection with the bonus share issue. On March 6, 2006, we once again announced a one for ten bonus share issue on our outstanding common shares. Shareholders of record on March 15, 2006 received one additional common share for every ten common shares held, of face value of $0.01 each. The bonus share issue was distributed on or about April 17, 2006. All common shares and per-share amounts in the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this annual report have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the one for ten bonus share issue for all periods presented. In addition, we have reclassified $0.035 million and $0.032 million from additional paid in capital to common share capital as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 respectively, in connection with the bonus share issue. HC International, Inc. (“HC International”) is a company listed on the Growth Enterprise Market of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. On May 24, 2006, Trade Media Holdings Limited (“TMH”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, IDG Technology Venture Investment, Inc. (“IDGVC”) and International Data Group, Inc. (“IDG”) entered into a conditional sale and purchase agreement (the “Sale and Purchase Agreement”) pursuant to which IDGVC has conditionally agreed to transfer 47,858,000 shares or 10% of the issued share capital of HC International, being part of its shareholding interests in HC International, to TMH at a consideration of approximately $9.9 million or approximately $0.2063 per share, of HC International (the “HC Share(s)”), which is subject to adjustment to approximately $13.9 million or approximately $0.2896 per HC Share (the “HC Share Transfer”), if and when HC International achieves a certain benchmark with reference to the HC International group’s performance during the Option Period (as defined below) or upon completion of the sale and purchase of the Option HC Shares (as defined below). IDG, being the sole shareholder of IDGVC, has agreed to guarantee the due and punctual discharge by IDGVC of its obligations under the Sale and Purchase Agreement. Completion of the HC Share Transfer is subject to the fulfilment of the conditions as set out in the Sale and Purchase Agreement, which include obtaining all relevant consents, governmental and regulatory approvals (if any) and a confirmation from the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (the “SFC”) that no mandatory offer obligation under Rule 26 of the Hong Kong Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the “Code”) will be triggered as a result of the transactions contemplated under the Sale and Purchase Agreement. Completion is expected to take place by the end of June 2006. Upon completion of the HC Share Transfer, we will own, together with 5,916,000 HC Shares (which represent approximately 1.24% of the issued share capital of HC International as at May 24, 2006) currently owned by us, an approximate 11.24% equity interest in HC International. It is the intention of HC International to invite Merle Hinrichs, our Chairman and Chief Executive officer who is also a director of TMH, to join HC International’s board as a non-executive director upon completion of the HC Share Transfer. TMH also entered into a call options deed (the “HC Options Deed”) with IDGVC, Guo Fansheng (“Guo”) and others which include certain members of the senior management of HC International (the “Option Grantors”), pursuant to which each of the aforesaid Option Grantors has agreed, subject to completion of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, to grant to TMH, (i) a right (the “HC Options”) exercisable during the 12-month period from the date of the completion of the Sale and Purchase Agreement (the “Option Period”) to purchase all, but not in part only, of the167,722,814 HC Shares owned by the respective parties (representing approximately 35.05% of the entire issued share capital of HC International) and any HC Shares that may be issued by HC International to certain directors of -38- HC International if the options granted in accordance with the share option schemes of HC International (amounting to an aggregate of 4,185,320 Option HC Shares) are exercised, which together amount to a maximum of approximately 35.61% of the entire issued share capital of HC International (the “Option HC Share(s)”) at an exercise price of approximately $0.2896 per Option HC Share; and (ii) an undertaking to accept any offer for the Option HC Shares at a price not less than approximately $0.2896 per Option HC Share, during the Option Period.Huicong Construction Co., Ltd. (“Huicong Construction”), in which Guo has an 80% equity interest, entered into a call option deed (the “Beijing Huicong Option Deed” and together with the HC Options Deed, the “Option Deeds”) with TMH, pursuant to which Huicong Construction has agreed, subject to completion of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, to grant to TMH a right (the “Beijing Huicong Option” and together with the HC Options, the “Options”) exercisable during the Option Period, to purchase (or to nominate a subsidiary of TMH to purchase) from Huicong Construction its entire 18% equity interest (“Beijing Huicong Equity Interest”) in Beijing Huicong International Information Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Huicong”), a 82% indirect subsidiary of HC International, at an aggregate exercise price of approximately $31.9 million. The HC Options and the Beijing Huicong Option are inter-conditional. The sale and purchase of the Beijing Huicong Equity Interest is subject to confirmation from the SFC. If the SFC’s confirmation is not forthcoming, the sale and purchase of the Beijing Huicong Equity Interest will not be completed but TMH may proceed with the completion of the sale and purchase of the Option HC Shares. Pursuant to the terms of the Beijing Huicong Option Deed and subject to the completion of the sale and purchase of the Beijing Huicong Equity Interest, Huicong Construction will also be required to transfer or assign its licenses and related contracts in relation to the provision of internet information and content services in the People’s Republic of China to a TMH-nominated company, but pending such transfer or assignment, Huicong Construction has agreed to continue to provide services in relation to the internet content provider license to Beijing Huicong in the same manner and on the same terms as currently agreed. The exercise and completion of the HC Options by TMH, if materialized, will result in a change in control of HC International (as our aggregate shareholding in HC International will increase from approximately 11.24% to a maximum of approximately 46.75%) and will trigger an obligation on the part of TMH to make a general offer in compliance with Rule 26 of the Code to acquire all the issued HC Shares (other than those already owned by TMH or parties acting in concert with it). We have no bank debt as at December 31, 2005. We anticipate that our cash and securities on hand and expected positive cash-flows from our operations will be adequate to satisfy our working capital, capital expenditure requirements and cash commitments based on the current levels of our operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) reached a consensus on Issue No. 03-1, “The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.” EITF 03-1 provides guidance on other-than-temporary impairment models for marketable debt and equity securities accounted for under SFAS No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” and SFAS No. 124, “Accounting for Certain Investments Held by Not-for-Profit Organizations,” and non-marketable equity securities accounted for under the cost method. The EITF developed a basic three-step model to evaluate whether an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. The provisions of EITF 03-1 will be effective for interim or annual reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004 and will be applied prospectively to all current and future investments. Quantitative and qualitative disclosures for investments accounted for under SFAS No. 115 are effective for the first annual reporting period after December 15, 2003. In September, 2004, the FASB issued FSP EITF Issue “03-1-1”, “Effective Date of Paragraphs 10-20 of EITF 03-1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment”, delaying the effective date for the recognition and measurement guidance of EITF 03-1, as contained in paragraphs 10-20, until certain implementation issues are addressed and a final FSP providing implementation guidance is issued. The disclosure requirements of the consensus remain in effect. In November, 2005 the FASB issued FSP FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1. The FSP FAS 115-1 and FAS 124-1 nullifies certain requirements of EITF 03-1 and is applicable for reporting peri- -39- ods beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of EITF 03-1 to have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”), a revision of SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.” SFAS 123R requires, among other things, measurement of all employee stock-based compensation awards using a fair value method and recording such expense in the consolidated financial statements. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted a new rule that allows implementation of SFAS 123R at the beginning of next fiscal year beginning after June 15, 2005. We will not be required to adopt Statement 123R until January 1, 2006. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 123R to have a material effect on our financial statements of position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2005, the FASB issued SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.” (“SFAS 154”). SFAS 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods’ financial statements of changes in accounting principle. It also requires that the changes in accounting principle be applied to the balances of assets and liabilities as of the beginning of the earliest period for which retrospective application is practicable and that a corresponding adjustment be made to the opening balance of retained earnings for that period rather than being reported in an income statement. The statement will be effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors made in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS 154 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk We operate internationally and foreign exchange rate fluctuations may have a material impact on our results of operations. Historically, currency fluctuations have been minimal on a year to year basis in the currencies of the countries where we have operations. As a result, foreign exchange gains or losses in revenue and accounts receivable have been offset by corresponding foreign exchange losses or gains arising from expenses. However, during the Asian economic crisis of 1997 to 1998, both advertising sales and the value of Asian currencies declined, which caused a significant decline in our revenue that was not fully offset by lower expense levels in Asian operations. This decline in revenue occurred due to contracts being denominated and priced in foreign currencies prior to devaluations in Asian currencies. The conversion of these contract proceeds to U.S. Dollars resulted in losses and reflects the foreign exchange risk assumed by us between contract signing and the conversion of cash into U.S. Dollars. We believe this risk is mitigated because historically a majority (ranging between 55% to 60%) of our revenue is denominated in U.S. Dollars or is received in the Hong Kong currency which is currently pegged to the U.S. Dollar and the Chinese currency, which is informally pegged to the U.S. Dollar. Correspondingly, a majority (approximately 85%) of our expenses are denominated in Asian currencies. To the extent significant currency fluctuations occur in the New Taiwan dollar, the Chinese Renminbi or other Asian currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, or if the Hong Kong dollar is no longer pegged to the U.S. Dollar, our revenue and expenses may fluctuate in tandem thus reducing the net impact on our profits. In the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we have not engaged in foreign currency hedging activities. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, we derived more than 90% of our revenue from customers in the Asia-Pacific region. We expect that a majority of our future revenue will continue to be generated from customers in this region. Future political or economic instability in the Asia-Pacific region could negatively impact our business. -40- ITEM 6. DIRECTORS, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES The following table sets forth information regarding the persons who are our executive officers and directors. Name Age Position Merle A. Hinrichs 64 Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Eddie Heng Teng Hua 55 Director and Chief Financial Officer J. Craig Pepples 45 Chief Operating Officer Bill Georgiou 61 Chief Information Officer Sarah Benecke 49 Director Roderick Chalmers 58 Director David F. Jones 41 Director Jeffrey J. Steiner 69 Director James Watkins 60 Director Mr. Hinrichs has been a director since April 2000 and is currently our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. A co-founder of the business, he was the principal executive officer of our predecessor company, Trade Media Holdings Limited, a Cayman Islands corporation wholly owned by us (“Trade Media”), from 1971 through 1993 and resumed that position in September 1999. From 1994 to August 1999, Mr. Hinrichs was chairman of the ASM Group, which included Trade Media. Mr. Hinrichs is a director of Trade Media and has also been the Chairman of the Board of Trade Media. Mr. Hinrichs graduated from the University of Nebraska and Thunderbird, the American Graduate School of International Management (“Thunderbird”). Mr. Hinrichs is a co-founder and former chairman of the Society of Hong Kong Publishers. He is a member of the board of trustees of Thunderbird and is a board member of the Economic Strategy Institute. His term as director expires in 2006. Mr. Heng has been the Chief Financial Officer (previously entitled vice president of finance) since 1994 and has been a director since April 2000. He joined us in August 1993 as deputy to the vice president of finance. He received an MBA from Shiller International University in London in 1993, is a Singapore Certified Public Accountant, a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Singapore, and a Fellow Member of The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in the United Kingdom. Prior to joining us, he was the regional financial controller of Hitachi Data Systems, a joint venture between Hitachi and General Motors. His term as director expires in 2007. Mr. Pepples has been our Chief Operating Officer since June 1999 and is responsible for our worldwide operations, including interactive media, corporate marketing, community development, information services, human resources and finance. Mr. Pepples joined Trade Media in October 1986 in an editorial capacity, managed Trade Media’s sales in China from 1989 to 1992, and served as country manager for China from 1992 to June 1999. Mr. Pepples graduated with a B.A. in Linguistics from Yale University. Mr. Georgiou was appointed our Chief Information Officer (previously Chief Technology Officer) in January 2001. Mr. Georgiou has had over 20 years’ experience in information technology, most recently as a consultant with 3Com Technologies during 2000 and as IT Director with Park N’Shop (HK) Ltd., a subsidiary company of A.S. Watson, from 1999 to 2000. He received his B.Ec. (Honours degree) and M.B.A. from the University of Adelaide. Ms. Benecke has been a director since April 2000, and, since 1993, has been a director of Trade Media Holdings Ltd. Ms. Benecke was our principal executive officer from January 1994 through August 1999. She joined us in May 1980 and served in numerous positions, including publisher from 1988 to December 1992 and chief operating officer in 1993. Since September 1999, Ms. Benecke has been a consultant to Publishers Representatives, Ltd. (Hong Kong), a subsidiary of our company. Ms. Benecke is also a director of Hintak Ltd. (Hong Kong). She graduated with a B.A. from the University of New South Wales, Australia. Her term as director expires in 2007. Mr. Chalmers has been a director since October 2000. He has been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank of Valetta, Malta Banking since 2004. He was chairman, Asia-Pacific, of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (“PwC”) and a member of PwC’s Global Management Board from 1998 until his retirement in July 2000. He is a 30-year veteran with PwC’s merger partner Coopers & Lybrand with specialist experience in the securities industry. -41- He has at various times been a non-executive director of the Hong Kong SAR Securities and Futures Commission, a member of the Takeovers and Mergers Panel, and chairman of the Working Group on Financial Disclosure. He is a director of Gasan Group Limited (Malta) and Gasan Mamo Insurance Co. Limited (Malta). His term as director expires in 2006. Mr. Jones has been a director since April 2000. He is currently Executive Director at CHAMP Private Equity, a leading Australian buy-out firm. Mr. Jones was an executive at Macquarie Direct Investment, a private equity firm in Sydney, Australia from 1994 to August 1999. He founded and ran UBS Capital in Australia from 1999 to 2002. He is currently a director of the following companies: Castle Harlan Australian Mezzanine Partners Pty. Limited, an Australian buyout firm; and Australian Discount Retail Pty Limited. Mr. Jones has an MBA from Harvard Business School and is a mechanical engineering graduate from the University of Melbourne. Mr. Jones serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee for Australian Discount Retail Pty Limited . His term as director expires in 2008. Mr. Steiner has been a director since November 1999. Mr. Steiner also has been a director of The Fairchild Corporation (“Fairchild”) since 1985. He has been the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Fairchild from December 1985 to the present. Mr. Steiner was president of Fairchild from July 1991 to September 1998. His term as director expires in 2006. In 2003, Mr. Jeffrey Steiner was convicted in France on a charge of unjustified use (in 1990) of the corporate funds of Elf Acquitaine, which is a criminal offense in France. Mr. Steiner was given a suspended sentence of one year and ordered to pay a fine of €500,000 by the French court. The French Court has since ordered that €259,000 of the €500,000 fine assessed against Mr Steiner be withdrawn from a part of the surety (caution) previously deposited by Fairchild in the Court. In November 2004, Mr. Jeffrey Steiner was named in Noto v. Steiner, et al., and Barbonel v. Steiner, et al., in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County, Delaware. The plaintiffs in these actions are shareholders of Fairchild and purport to bring actions derivatively on behalf of Fairchild, claiming, among other things, that Fairchild executive officers have received excessive pay and perquisites in violation of fiduciary duties to Fairchild. The complaints name Mr. Steiner, as well as all of Fairchild’s directors, as defendants. On October 24, 2005, a copy of a “Notice of Hearing and Proposed Supplemental Settlement of The Fairchild Corporation Stockholder Derivative Litigation” (the “Derivative Settlement”) was mailed to all shareholders of Fairchild and was filed with the SEC. On November 23, 2005, the Court of Chancery approved the Derivative Settlement, which approval became final on December 23, 2005. Mr. Watkins was appointed as a casual director on February 28, 2005, and was re-elected as a director at the Annual General Meeting on May 9, 2005. Mr. Watkins was a Director and Group General Counsel of the Jardine Matheson Group in Hong Kong from 1997 until 2003. He was Group Legal Director of Schroeders plc in 1996-1997 and of Trafalgar House plc from 1994-1996. He was previously a partner and solicitor in the London and Hong Kong offices of Linklaters from 1975 to 1994. He currently is a non-executive Director of Mandarin Oriental International Ltd, Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd, MCL Land Ltd and Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation Ltd and is a member of the Audit Committees of Jardine Cycle & Carriage Ltd and MCL Land Ltd and the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Corporation Ltd. Mr Watkins has a law degree from the University of Leeds (First Class Hons.). His term as director expires in 2008. Compensation For the year ended December 31, 2005, we and our subsidiaries provided our nine directors and executive officers as a group aggregate remuneration, pension contributions, allowances and other benefits of approximately $2,827,448 including the non-cash compensation of $486,645 associated with the share award and ECP plans. Of that amount, $105,000 was paid under a performance based, long-term discretionary bonus plan which we implemented in 1989 for members of our senior management. Under the plan, members of senior management may, at our discretion, receive a long-term discretionary bonus payment. The awards, which are payable in either five or ten years time, are paid to a member of senior management if his or her performance is satisfactory to us. There are three current members of senior management and two former members of senior management who may receive payments on maturity. -42- In 2005, we and our subsidiaries incurred $29,510 in costs to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits to our respective officers and directors pursuant to our retirement plan and pension plan. In addition to the above, during the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded non-cash compensation expenses of $72,440 associated with the Directors Purchase Plan. Employment Agreements We have employment agreements with Merle A. Hinrichs under which he serves as our chairman and chief executive officer and as president of Global Sources USA, Inc., one of our subsidiaries. The agreements contain covenants restricting Mr. Hinrichs’ ability to compete with us during his term of employment and preventing him from disclosing any confidential information during the term of his employment agreement and for a period of three years after the termination of his employment agreement. In addition, we retain the rights to all trademarks and copyrights acquired and any inventions or discoveries made or discovered by Mr. Hinrichs in the course of his employment. Upon a change of control, if Mr. Hinrichs is placed in a position of lesser stature than that of a senior executive officer, a significant change in the nature or scope of his duties is effected, Mr. Hinrichs ceases to be a member of the board or there is a breach of those sections of his employment agreements relating to compensation, reimbursement, title and duties or termination, each of us and such subsidiary shall pay Mr. Hinrichs a lump sum cash payment equal to five times the sum of his base salary prior to the change of control and the bonus paid to him in the year preceding the change of control. The agreements may be terminated by either party by giving six months notice. We have employment agreements with each of our executive officers. Each employment agreement contains a non-competition provision, preventing the employee from undertaking or becoming involved in any business activity or venture during the term of employment without notice to us and our approval. The employee must keep all of our proprietary and private information confidential during the term of employment and for a period of three years after the termination of the agreement. We can assign the employee to work for another company if the employee’s duties remain similar. In addition, we retain the rights to all trademarks and copyrights acquired and any inventions or discoveries made or discovered by the employee during the employee’s term of employment. Each employment agreement contains a six months’ notice provision for termination, and does not have a set term of employment. Bonus provisions are determined on an individual basis. Board Practices Our board of directors consists of seven members divided into three classes, the terms of which expire at the general meeting of shareholders to be held in each year indicated above. Each director holds office until his or her term expires and his or her successor has been elected and qualified. At each general meeting of shareholders, directors nominated to a class with a term that expires in that year will be elected for a three-year term. Executive officers serve at the discretion of the board of directors. Officers are elected at the annual meeting of the directors held immediately after the annual general meeting of shareholders. Our executive officers have, on average, 18 years of service with us. Directors receive a cash fee of $10,000 per year, plus an additional $2,500 for each board meeting attended. Committees of the Board of Directors We have established an audit committee and an executive committee of our board of directors. The audit committee recommends the appointment of auditors, oversees accounting and audit functions and other key financial matters of our company. The audit committee meets four times a year. David Jones, Roderick Chalmers and James Watkins are the members of the audit committee and the board of directors determined that Mr. Chalmers is an audit committee financial expert as defined under appropriate SEC guidelines. The executive committee acts for the entire board of directors between board meetings. Merle Hinrichs and Eddie Heng are the members of the executive committee. We have a separately - designated standing compensation committee, consisting of the independent directors. The primary function of the compensation committee is to approve compensation packages for each of the Company’s executive officers. The compensation committee held 2 meetings in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. -43- We have an executive sessions committee, consisting of the independent directors. The executive sessions committee held 2 meetings in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. Code of Ethics We have adopted a Code of Ethics (“Code of Ethics”) that applies to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer or controller and persons performing similar functions. Any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics that apply to the chief executive officer or senior financial officers will be promptly disclosed on our website as required by law or by the Securities and Exchange Commission or by the Nasdaq National Market. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 521 employees worldwide, the majority of whom work in management, technical or administrative positions. We consider our employee relationships to be satisfactory. Our employees are not represented by labor unions and we are not aware of any attempts to organize our employees. The following summarizes the approximate number of employees and independent contractors by function: Function Employees Independent Contractors Total Content Development 102 337 439 Corporate Human Resources & Administration 33 43 76 Corporate Marketing 7 33 40 Community Development 109 26 135 Sales 40 1,211 1,251 Electronic Commerce Services 4 0 