D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Our business depends to a significant extent on certain online games, which accounted for 98.7%, 86.0% and 85.9% of our total net revenues from online game services in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We may not be able to maintain the popularity of these games for a variety of reasons. Certain of our internally developed massively multi-player online role-playing games, known as MMORPGs, Westward Journey Online II, Fantasy Westward Journey, Westward Journey Online III, Tianxia II and Heroes of Tang Dynasty, as well as World of Warcraft®, a game licensed from Blizzard Entertainment Inc. (together with its affiliated companies, referred to as Blizzard in this annual report), contributed 98.7%, 86.0% and 85.9% of our total net revenues from online game services in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We expect that we will need to continually introduce new versions or substantive upgrades of these and our other online games on a frequent basis to maintain their popularity, although changes in users’ tastes or in the overall market for online games in China could alter the anticipated life cycle of each version or upgrade or even cause our users to stop playing our games altogether. Because of the limited history of the online games market in China, we cannot at this time estimate the total life cycle of any of our games, particularly our more recently launched games. If we are unable to maintain the popularity of our existing online games or are unable to introduce new online games which are popular with online game users in China (as discussed in the next risk factor), our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, we have devoted, and expect to continue to devote, significant resources to maintain and raise the popularity of our time-based games through the release of new versions and/or expansion packs on a periodic basis and various promotional activities such as media advertising and game tournaments. For example, in 2010 we introduced our new “Weimei” version of Fantasy Westward Journey, which features 3D graphics and cuter and more realistic looking characters, and introduced expansion packs for Westward Journey II and III. In 2010, we also engaged celebrity spokespersons to promote certain of our games. If we fail to develop and introduce new online games timely and successfully, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends not only on the popularity of our existing online games but also on our ability to develop and introduce new games that our customers and users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new online games that are appealing to users with acceptable prices and terms, our business and operating results will be negatively impacted because we would not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues would suffer. The development of new games can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. New technologies in online game programming or operations could render our current online titles or other online games that we develop in the future obsolete or unattractive to our subscribers, thereby limiting our ability to recover development costs 5 Table of Contents and potentially adversely affecting our future revenues and profitability. In particular, the online game industry in China is transitioning from 2D to 3D games, with numerous new 3D game titles being launched in the market in recent years. In response to this trend, we have been devoting additional resources to developing or licensing 3D games and software components for such games, and we cannot assure you that such games will be successful. In particular, we have been devoting a significant portion of our research and development efforts to developing new games, including fee-based and item-based games. For example, we commercially launched Westward Journey Online III, an enhanced version of our popular Westward Journey game series, in September 2007, Tianxia II in June 2008 and Heroes of Tang Dynasty and Westward Journey: Genesis in April 2010. We are also currently testing several additional new games. Each of these games has required long periods of time for research and development and testing and also typically experience long ramp-up periods as players become familiar with the games. We are not able to predict if or when we will commercially launch additional new games and whether any of our new games will gain popularity in the Chinese online game market. In addition, we are required to devote significant resources to the ongoing operations of our online games, such as staff costs related to our “Game Masters” which supervise the activities within our games. If we fail to anticipate our users’ needs and technological trends accurately or are otherwise unable to complete the development of games in a timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new games into the market to successfully compete. The demand for new games is difficult to forecast, in part due to the relative immaturity of the market and relatively short life cycles of Internet-based technologies. As we introduce and support additional games and as competition in the market for our games intensify, we expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand. In particular, competition in the online game market is growing as more and more online games are introduced by existing and new market participants. Most of our revenues from online games developed internally have been generated by games that use the time-based revenue model, and we may be unable to effectively address ongoing or future market trends regarding new revenue models for online games in China. Most of our online game revenues have been generated by games that use the time-based revenue model whereby players purchase our prepaid point cards to pay for playing time. Most of our competitors offer games utilizing an item-based revenue model where players are able to play the basic functions of the online games for free and may choose to purchase in-game value-added services, including certain in-game items and premium features, which enhance the game experience. We currently offer five item-based games, Tianxia II, Heroes of Tang Dynasty, Legend of Westward Journey, Westward Journey: Genesis and New Fly for Fun, and we are currently developing other games that use the item-based revenue model. We cannot be certain that these or our future item-based online games will be popular or generate the revenue our management expects. Moreover, it is possible that users of our existing time-based games find that the item-based games offered by our competitors provide a more enjoyable gaming experience in which case the popularity of our existing games could be materially adversely affected. If the overall shift in the online game market in China to an item-based model continues or a shift to another revenue model occurs, we may be unable to launch new games or new versions of existing games which effectively use such model in a timely manner or at all, and we may be required to make significant research and development and sales and marketing expenditures to develop and promote such games. We may not be able to maintain a stable relationship with Blizzard, and we may experience difficulties in the operation of the online games licensed from it or its affiliates. In August 2008 and April 2009, Blizzard agreed to license certain online games developed by it to Shanghai EaseNet Network Technology Limited, or Shanghai EaseNet, for operation in the PRC, including StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty and World of Warcraft. Shanghai EaseNet is a PRC company owned by William Lei Ding, our Chief Executive Officer, director and major shareholder, and has contractual arrangements with us and with the joint venture established between Blizzard and us. Shanghai EaseNet commercially launched World of Warcraft in September 2009 and StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty in April 2011 after receiving the relevant government authorities’ approvals. For further details, see Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Our Services — Game Licensing and Joint Venture with Blizzard.” We lack experience in licensing online games from third parties and have limited experience working with Blizzard. If we are unable to maintain a stable relationship with Blizzard, or if Blizzard establishes similar or more favorable relationships with our competitors in violation of its contractual arrangements with us or otherwise, we may not be able to ensure the smooth operation of these licensed online games, and Blizzard could terminate the license and joint venture agreements with us, which in either case could harm our operating results and business. Also, the full benefits of our arrangements with Blizzard may take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that such arrangements will produce their intended benefits. Furthermore, certain events may limit Blizzard’s ability to develop or license online games, such as claims by third parties that Blizzard’s online games infringe such third parties’ intellectual property rights or Blizzard’s inability to acquire or maintain licenses to use another party’s intellectual property in its online games. In the case of such events, Blizzard may be unable to continue licensing online games to us or to continue participating in any joint venture with us, regardless of the stability of our relationship with Blizzard. Shanghai EaseNet, as licensee of the games, has paid to Blizzard initial license fees, with an additional license fee to be paid upon the commencement of the open beta testing and commercial release in the PRC of a localized version of Blizzard’s 6 Table of Contents Battle.net platform. In addition, the licenses with Blizzard have three-year terms, require Shanghai EaseNet to pay royalties and consultancy fees to Blizzard for the games over the length of the licenses, have a minimum marketing expenditure commitment, and require Shanghai EaseNet to provide funds for hardware to operate the games. We have guaranteed the payment of the foregoing amounts if and to the extent Shanghai EaseNet has insufficient funds to make such payments. We will be entitled to reimbursement of any amounts paid under the guarantee for marketing the licensed games and for hardware support to operate the games from any net profits subsequently generated by Shanghai EaseNet, after the deduction of, among others, various fees and expenses payable to Blizzard, us and our joint venture with Blizzard which will provide technical services to Shanghai EaseNet. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview — Our Services — Game Licensing and Joint Venture with Blizzard.” for details about these arrangements. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our foregoing obligations. To the extent our obligations exceed our cash resources, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or to obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that would restrict operations. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to meet our foregoing obligations, our licensed games operation and financial condition could be adversely affected and our licenses with Blizzard could be terminated. In addition, we cannot be certain that these licensed online games will be viewed by the regulatory authorities as complying with content restrictions, will be attractive to users or will be able to compete with games operated by our competitors. We may not be able to fully recover the costs associated with licensing these online games if the games are not popular among users in the PRC, and any difficulties in the operation of these licensed games could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Any difficulties or delays in receiving approval from the relevant government authorities for the operation of games we license from game developers outside of China or any expansion packs for or material changes to such games could adversely affect such games’ popularity and profitability. Games we license from game developers outside of China require government approvals before operation of such games within China. Moreover, even after licensed games have received government approvals, any expansion packs for or material changes of content to those games may require further government approvals. We cannot be certain of the duration of any necessary approval processes, and any delay in receiving such government approvals may adversely affect the profitability and popularity of such licensed games. Future alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. Strategic alliances with key players in the online game industry and other related industry sectors form part of our strategy to expand our portfolio of online games. For example, in August 2008 and April 2009, Blizzard agreed to license certain online games developed by it to Shanghai EaseNet for operation in the PRC. We have also formed a joint venture with Blizzard to provide technical services to Shanghai EaseNet. However, our ability to grow through future alliances, including through joint ventures, will depend on the availability of suitable partners at reasonable terms, our ability to compete effectively to attract these partners, the availability of financing to complete larger joint ventures, and our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. Further, the benefits of an alliance may take considerable time to develop, and we cannot be certain that any particular alliance will produce its intended benefits. Future alliances could also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operation technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of alliances and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Further, we may not be able to maintain a satisfactory relationship with our partners, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have limited experience in identifying, financing or completing strategic alliances. Such transactions and the subsequent integration process would require significant attention from our management. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered with respect to the alliances or in the process of integration could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our new games may attract game players away from our existing games, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new online games may attract game players away from our existing games and shrink the player base of our existing online games, which could in turn make those existing games less attractive to other game players, resulting in decreased revenues from our existing games. Players of our existing games may also spend less money to purchase time or virtual items in our new games than they would have spent if they had continued playing our existing games. In addition, our game players may migrate from our existing games with a higher profit margin to new games with a lower profit margin. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents New or changed game features in our online games may not be well received by our game players. In the course of launching and operating online games, including the release of updates and expansion packs to existing games, certain game features may periodically be introduced, changed or removed. We cannot assure you that the introduction, change or removal of any game feature will be well received by our game players, who may decide to reduce or eliminate their playing time in response to any such introduction, change or removal. As a result, any introduction, change or removal of game features may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. A prolonged slowdown in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, prospects and future expansion plans. Since the second half of 2008, global credit and capital markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, have experienced difficult conditions. These challenging market conditions have resulted in reduced liquidity, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads, lack of price transparency in credit markets, a reduction in available financing and lack of market confidence. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment in the United States and elsewhere in the world, precipitated a global economic slowdown, including a slowdown in the rate of economic growth in China during several quarters since 2008. Given the dramatic change in the overall credit environment and economy, it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and the extent to which we may be affected. The uncertainty and volatility of credit and capital markets and the overall slowdown in the PRC economy has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. While there have been signs of economic recovery in China and the world’s major economies, there can be no assurance that the economic recovery may be sustained. As a result, prolonged disruptions to the global credit and capital markets and the global economy may materially and adversely affect the Chinese economy, consumer spending in China and our business, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and future expansion plans. Reports of violence and theft related to online games may result in negative publicity or a governmental response that could have a material and adverse impact on our business. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly inspired by online games and theft of virtual items between users in online games. While we believe that such events were not related to our online games, it is possible that our reputation, as one of the leading online game providers in China, could be adversely affected by such behavior. In response to the media reports, in August 2005 the Chinese government enacted new regulations to prohibit all minors under the age of 18 from playing online games in which players are allowed to kill other players, an activity that has been termed Player Kills, or PK. The Chinese government has also taken steps to limit online game playing time for all minors under the age of 18. See below “—Risks Related to the Telecommunications and Internet Industries in China—The Chinese government has taken steps to limit online game playing time for all minors. These and any other new restrictions may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.” If the Chinese government should determine that online games have a negative impact on society, it may impose certain additional restrictions on the online game industry, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acts of cheating by users of online games could lessen the popularity of our online games, adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations. There have been a number of incidents in previous years where users, through a variety of methods, were able to modify the rules of our online games. Although these users did not gain unauthorized access to our systems, they were able to modify the rules of our online games during game-play in a manner that allowed them to cheat and disadvantage our other online game users, which often has the effect of causing players to stop using the game and shortening the game’s lifecycle. Although we have taken a number of steps to deter our users from engaging in cheating when playing our online games, we cannot assure you that we or the third parties from whom we license some of our online games will be successful or timely in taking corrective steps necessary to prevent users from modifying the rules of our online games. Illegal game servers could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Several of our competitors have reported that some Internet cafés have installed illegal copies of such competitors’ games on the cafés’ servers and let their customers play such games on illegal servers without paying for the game playing time. While we already have in place numerous internal control measures to protect the source codes of our games from being stolen and to address illegal server usage and, to date, our games have not to our knowledge experienced such usage, our preventive measures may not be effective. The misappropriation of our game server installation software and installation of illegal game servers could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Efforts to supervise the operation of our online games and portal may expose us to potential claims by our users. In our daily supervision of the operation of our online games and portal or during the investigation of users’ complaints, we may take actions to regulate the behavior of our users. For example, if we suspect a player of installing cheating programs on our online games, we may freeze that player’s game account or even ban the player from logging on to our games and portal. Such regulatory activities are essential to maintain a fair playing environment for our users. However, if any of our regulatory activities are found to be wrongly implemented, our users may institute legal proceedings against us for damages or claims. Our operation, business and financial performance may be materially and adversely affected as a result. We expect that a portion of our future revenues will continue to come from our advertising services, which represented approximately 10.4% of our total net revenues for 2010, but we may not be able to compete effectively in this market because it is relatively new and intensely competitive, in which case our ability to generate and maintain advertising revenue in the future could be adversely affected. Although we anticipate that the revenues generated by our online games will continue to constitute the major portion of our future revenues, we believe that we will continue to rely on advertising revenues as one of our primary revenue sources for the foreseeable future. The popularity of online advertising in China has been growing quickly in recent years and many of our current and potential advertisers have gained in experience with using the Internet as an advertising medium. Many advertisers, however, still do not devote a significant portion of their advertising expenditures to Internet-based advertising. Some advertisers may also not find the Internet to be effective for promoting their products and services relative to traditional print and broadcast media. Our ability to generate and maintain significant advertising revenue will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; · the development of software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen; · downward pressure on online advertising prices; and · the effectiveness of our advertising delivery and tracking system. Changes in government policy could also restrict or curtail our online advertising services. Moreover, the acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines. In addition, the competition in the online advertising industry in China has intensified since Baidu.com, Inc., or Baidu, Tencent Inc., or Tencent, and Alibaba.com Limited, or Alibaba and other vertical Internet portals came into the market. The entry of additional, highly competitive Internet companies, whether domestic or international, into the Chinese market has and may continue to further heighten competition for advertising spending in China. In 2009, as competition intensified for advertising services, we restructured our portal business operations and launched other new marketing strategies to grow our advertising business and to cater to changes in the needs of our advertising services customers. In particular, we increased our sales staff to support more direct contacts with advertisers. We believe that these efforts, together with other factors, contributed to the growth of our net revenues from advertising services in 2010. We cannot assure you, however, that any of these efforts will continue to be successful in improving the financial results of our advertising business. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for advertising in China, our ability to generate increased revenue will be negatively affected. We experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our online games which appears to be a result of the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in 2003. Any recurrence of SARS or another widespread public health problem could adversely affect our business and results of operations. During April and May 2003, we experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our online game services which we believe resulted from the closure of Internet cafés in Beijing and elsewhere to prevent the spread of SARS. Many users of our online game services can only access those services at Internet cafés. There have been confirmed human cases of the H5N1 strain of influenza virus, commonly referred to as “bird flu” or “avian influenza,” in the PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries, which have proven fatal in some instances. In addition, in April 2009, H1N1, a new strain of the influenza virus commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. 9 Table of Contents A renewed outbreak of SARS, the spread of H5N1 or H1N1, or another widespread public health problem in China, where virtually all of our revenue is derived, or in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou or Hangzhou, where most of our employees are located, could have a negative effect on our business and operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things: · quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; · closure of Internet cafés and other public areas where people access the Internet; and · a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain our existing key employees and to add and retain senior officers to our management. We depend on the services of our existing key employees. Our success will largely depend on our ability to retain these key employees and to attract and retain qualified senior and middle level managers to our management team. Future changes in management could cause material disruptions to our business. We also depend on our ability to attract and retain in the future highly skilled technical, editorial, marketing and customer service personnel, especially experienced online game software developers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain such personnel or that any personnel we hire in the future will successfully integrate into our organization or ultimately contribute positively to our business. In particular, the market for experienced online game software programmers is intensely competitive in China. While we believe we offer compensation packages that are consistent with market practice, we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire and retain sufficient experienced programmers to support our online games business. We may also be unsuccessful in training and retaining less-experienced programmers on a cost-effective basis. The loss of any of our key employees would significantly harm our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. Our revenues fluctuate significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenues and results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: · attract and retain users to our websites and online games in the increasingly competitive Internet market in China; · successfully implement our business strategies as planned; and · update and develop our Internet applications, services, technologies and infrastructure. Historically, advertising revenue has followed the same general seasonal trend throughout each year with the first quarter of the year being the weakest quarter due to the Chinese New Year holiday and the traditional close of advertisers’ annual budgets and the third quarter being the strongest. Usage of our wireless value-added services and online games has generally increased around the Chinese New Year holiday and other Chinese holidays, in particular winter and summer school holidays during which school-aged users have more time to use such services and play games. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our ADSs or any other securities of ours which may become publicly traded to decline. If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content providers, we may not be able to attract traffic to the NetEase websites. We rely on a number of third party relationships to attract traffic and provide content in order to make the NetEase websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Most of our arrangements with content providers are short-term and may be terminated at the convenience of the other party. Some content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our costs and operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. Moreover, our agreements with content providers are usually non-exclusive, although some of our competitors 10 Table of Contents have been entering into exclusive arrangements for certain content, particularly online video content. If we are not able to renew our agreements with content providers or our competitors obtain exclusive rights to content which we wish to offer on the NetEase websites, the attractiveness of our portal to users will be severely impaired. Also, if other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our visitor traffic. We expect that the increasing popularity of online video content among Internet users in China will increase our costs in future periods because it requires significant bandwidth to deliver and will likely necessitate our investments in new video streaming technology. We believe that online video content is becoming increasingly popular among Internet users in China and that we will need to offer a wide range of video content on the NetEase websites to attract users. Although advances in video compression technology have allowed reductions in the bandwidth required to deliver video content, such content still requires significantly more bandwidth than the other forms of content we offer on the NetEase websites. To enable users to access our video content quickly and reliably and remain competitive with other Internet portals in China and elsewhere, we anticipate that we will be required to invest in new video streaming technologies, including technologies developed by third parties. Currently, we obtain technology service support from certain technology companies in providing video content on our websites in exchange of our advertising services. If we are unable to continue such exchange of services or pass on such increased costs to users, our costs will increase which could materially adversely affect our business and profitability. We do not own Guangzhou NetEase Computer System Co., Ltd., or Guangzhou NetEase, Beijing Guangyitong Advertising Co., Ltd., or Guangyitong Advertising, Beijing NetEase Youdao Computer System Co., Ltd., or Youdao Computer, Wangyibao Co. Ltd., or Wangyibao, or Shanghai EaseNet, and if they or their ultimate shareholders violate our contractual arrangements with them, our business could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights, which may be time consuming and expensive. Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer and Wangyibao are owned by shareholders whose interests may differ from ours and those of our shareholders because they own a larger percentage of such companies than of our company. Specifically, the business and operations of Guangzhou NetEase, as the operator of the NetEase websites and a provider of online games and wireless value-added and other fee-based premium services, Guangyitong Advertising, as an advertising firm, Youdao, as a search business operator, and Wangyibao, as the operator of our Wangyibao payment system, are subject to Chinese laws and regulations that differ from the laws and regulations that govern the business and operations of NetEase. For example, Chinese laws and regulations require us to verify the content of third party advertising content we place on the NetEase websites, and we are partly dependent upon the conduct of Guangyitong Advertising, which is not directly subject to those laws and regulations, in order to ensure that we remain compliant with those laws and regulations. Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao or their ultimate shareholders could violate our arrangements with them by, among other things, failing to operate and maintain the NetEase websites or their various businesses in an acceptable manner, failing to remit revenue to us on a timely basis or at all or diverting customers or business opportunities from our company. In addition, the operation of the online games licensed from Blizzard is dependent on Shanghai EaseNet, which is owned by William Lei Ding, our Chief Executive Officer, director and major shareholder, and has contractual arrangements with us and with the joint venture established between Blizzard and us. The interests of Mr. Ding and the joint venture may differ from ours and those of our shareholders. A violation of the foregoing agreements could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation in the market. If these companies or their ultimate shareholders violate our agreements with them, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements and rely on legal remedies under the PRC laws. The PRC laws, rules and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws, rules and regulations involve substantial uncertainties. These uncertainties may impede the our ability to enforce these agreements, or suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these agreements and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Because our contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao and their ultimate shareholders do not detail the parties’ rights and obligations, our remedies for a breach of these arrangements are limited. Our current relationship with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao and their ultimate shareholders is based on a number of contracts, and these affiliated companies are considered our “variable interest entities,” or VIEs, for accounting purposes. The terms of these agreements are often statements of general intent and do not detail the rights and obligations of the parties. Some of these contracts provide that the parties will enter into further agreements on the details of the services to be provided. Others contain price and payment terms that are subject to monthly adjustment. These provisions may be subject to differing interpretations, particularly on the details of the services to be provided and on price and payment terms. It may be difficult for us to obtain remedies or damages from Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao or their ultimate shareholders for breaching our agreements. Because we rely significantly on these companies for our business, the realization of any of these risks may disrupt our operations or cause degradation in the quality and service provided on, or a temporary or permanent shutdown of, the NetEase websites. 11 Table of Contents A majority of the share capital of Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer and the entire share capital of Shanghai EaseNet is held by our major shareholder, who may cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that is adverse to us. Our major shareholder, William Lei Ding, holds the majority interest in Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and Youdao Computer. As a result, Mr. Ding may be able to cause the agreements related to Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and Youdao Computer to be amended in a manner that will be adverse to our company, or may be able to cause these agreements not to be renewed, even if their renewal would be beneficial for us. Although we have entered into an agreement that prevents the amendment of these agreements without the approval of the members of our Board other than Mr. Ding, we can provide no assurances that these agreements will not be amended in the future to contain terms that might differ from the terms that are currently in place. These differences may be adverse to our interests. In addition, William Lei Ding also holds the entire share capital of Shanghai EaseNet, and we can provide no assurance that Mr. Ding will not cause the agreements related to Shanghai EaseNet to be amended in the future in a manner that will be adverse to us or to contain terms that might differ from the terms that are currently in place. These differences may be adverse to our interests. We may not be able to conduct our operations without the services provided by Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao and Shanghai EaseNet. Our operations are currently dependent upon our commercial relationships with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao and Shanghai EaseNet, and we derive most of our revenues from these companies. If these companies are unwilling or unable to perform the agreements which we have entered into with them, we may not be able to conduct our operations in the manner in which we currently conduct. In addition, Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao and Shanghai EaseNet may seek to renew these agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control these companies, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them. If we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not expand, and our operating expenses may increase. One of our shareholders has significant influence over our company. Our founder, Chief Executive Officer and director, William Lei Ding, beneficially owned, as of March 31, 2011, approximately 44.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares and is our largest shareholder. Accordingly, Mr. Ding has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He also has significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of this shareholder, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Mr. Ding may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Our arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao, Shanghai EaseNet and their respective shareholders may cause a transfer pricing adjustment and may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao, Shanghai EaseNet and their respective shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to those of other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment which may result in an increase in our taxes. A transfer of shares of Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao or Shanghai EaseNet may trigger tax liability. If we need to cause the transfer of shareholdings of Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao or Shanghai EaseNet from their current respective shareholders to any other individual (such as if, for example, one of such current shareholders is no longer employed by us), we may be required to pay individual income tax in the PRC on behalf of the transferring shareholder. Such individual income tax would be based on any gain deemed to have been realized by such shareholder on such transfer, and would likely be calculated based on a tax rate of 20% applied to the transferring shareholder’s interest in the undistributed after tax net income of the entity whose shares are being transferred. A significant tax obligation arising from any such transfer of shares could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives and PRC tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Prior to January 1, 2008, foreign invested enterprises were generally subject to a national and local enterprise income tax at statutory rates of 30.0% and 3.0%, respectively, under the previous income tax law. Our subsidiaries, NetEase Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or NetEase Beijing, Guangzhou NetEase Interactive Entertainment Limited, or Guangzhou Interactive, Guangzhou Boguan Telecommunication Limited, or Boguan, NetEase (Hangzhou) Network Co., Ltd., or NetEase Hangzhou, and NetEase Youdao Information Technology (Beijing) Limited (formerly named NetEase Yodao Information Technology (Beijing) Limited), or Youdao Information, and our variable interest entity, Guangzhou NetEase, had been granted various preferential tax treatments because the local tax authorities had approved such companies as “High and New Technology Enterprises,” HNTEs, “Software Enterprises,” “Key Software Enterprises” or “New Software Enterprises” under the then applicable tax rules and regulations. Effective as of January 1, 2008, the Chinese government adopted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, as further clarified by subsequent tax regulations implementing the new income tax law, which unified the enterprise income tax rates payable by domestic and foreign-invested enterprises at 25.0%. Preferential tax treatments continue to be granted to entities that are classified as HNTEs and conduct business in encouraged sectors, whether such entities are foreign invested enterprises or domestic companies. Pursuant to these policies, qualified enterprises can enjoy a reduced enterprise income tax, or EIT, rate of 15.0%. Under the new income tax law, enterprises that were established and already enjoyed preferential tax treatments before March 16, 2007, other than companies qualifying as HNTEs, continue to enjoy such treatments (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, for a period of five years from January 1, 2008, or (ii) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term, until the expiration of such term. Our subsidiaries, NetEase Beijing, Guangzhou Interactive, Boguan and NetEase Hangzhou, were included in the list of HNTEs published by the relevant government agency in December 2008, which status was confirmed by the relevant tax authorities for fiscal years 2008 to 2010 entitling them to a reduced rate of 15%. In addition, NetEase Hangzhou had a preferential EIT rate of 12.5% in 2010. Guangzhou Interactive qualified as a “Key Software Enterprise” in 2008 and 2009 and enjoyed a preferential EIT rate of 12.5% in those years. Boguan qualified as a “Software Enterprise” and was subject to EIT at a rate of 12.5% in 2008. Thereafter, Boguan qualified as a “Key Software Enterprise” in December 2009 and March 2011, entitling it to a preferential EIT rate of 10.0% for 2009 and 2010, respectively. See item 5.A. “Operating Results — Income Taxes.” Although we will attempt to obtain or maintain similar preferential tax statuses for our subsidiaries for 2011, we cannot assure you that we will obtain or maintain any particular preferential tax status, and typically the relevant government agencies do not confirm that we have obtained or maintained a particular tax status until late in a given tax year. The qualifications for HNTE, “Software Enterprise” or “Key Software Enterprise” status are subject to an annual assessment by the relevant government authorities in China. Without any preferential tax status, the standard EIT rate is 25.0%. Moreover, if there are further changes to the relevant income tax laws and their implementation, our subsidiaries and variable interest entities may need to pay additional taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes following the promulgation of the Enterprise Income Tax Law on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our global income and withholding income tax for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC corporate shareholders on profits earned after January 1, 2008. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises established outside of the PRC whose “de facto management bodies” are located in the PRC are considered “resident enterprises,” and will generally be subject to the uniform 25.0% enterprise income tax rate for their global income. Under the implementation rules of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as the body that has material and overall management control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. In April 2009, the PRC tax authority promulgated a circular to clarify the criteria for determining whether the “de facto management bodies” are located within the PRC for enterprises established outside of the PRC that are controlled by entities established within the PRC. However the relevant laws and regulations remain unclear regarding treatment of an enterprise established outside the PRC that is controlled by another enterprise established outside the PRC. Some of our management is currently located in the PRC. Accordingly, we may be considered a “resident enterprise” and may therefore be subject to the EIT rate of 25.0% of our global income, and as a result, the amount of dividends we can pay to our shareholders could be reduced. We cannot confirm whether we will be considered a “resident enterprise” because the implementation rules are unclear at this time. Under the implementation rules of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends paid to “non-resident enterprises” by “resident enterprises” on profits earned after January 1, 2008 are regarded as income from “sources within the PRC” and therefore subject to a 10.0% withholding income tax, while dividends on profits earned before January 1, 2008 are not subject to the withholding income tax. A lower withholding income tax rate of 5.0% is applied if the “non-resident enterprises” are registered in Hong Kong or other jurisdictions that have a favorable tax treaty arrangement with China. Nevertheless, the PRC State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance, and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant tax treaty benefits. It is unclear at this early stage whether Circular 601 applies to dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries. It is possible 13 Table of Contents that under Circular 601 our Hong Kong subsidiaries would not be considered to be the beneficial owners of any such dividends, and that, if such dividends are subject to withholding, such withholding rate would be 10% rather than the favorable 5% rate generally applicable under the tax treaty between mainland China and Hong Kong. Because we may be treated as a “resident enterprise,” any dividends paid to the corporate shareholders or shareholders appearing as corporate entities on the share registers of NetEase.com, Inc. which are considered “non-resident enterprises” may be subject to withholding income tax and the value of the investment in our shares or ADSs may be adversely and materially affected. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Unexpected network interruption caused by system failures may reduce visitor traffic and harm our reputation. Both the continual accessibility of the NetEase websites and the performance and reliability of our technical infrastructure are critical to our reputation and the ability of the NetEase websites to attract and retain users and advertisers. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce user satisfaction and traffic, which would reduce the NetEase websites’ appeal to users and advertisers. As the number of NetEase Web pages and traffic increase, we cannot assure you that we will be able to scale our systems proportionately. In addition, any system failures and electrical outages could materially and adversely impact our business. Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently located at several different locations in China. Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers. We carry property insurance with low coverage limits that may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation, that may occur. In addition, fire, floods, droughts, typhoons, earthquakes and other natural disasters could result in material disruptions of our operations and adversely affect our revenues and profit. For example, a Richter magnitude 8 earthquake struck the city of Wenchuan in Sichuan Province on May 12, 2008, and the PRC government declared May 19, 2008 to May 21, 2008 as national mourning days for that earthquake. Similarly, the PRC government declared April 21, 2010 as a national mourning day for the April 14, 2010 earthquake centered in Qinghai Province. As required by the PRC government, we and the other major online game operators in China suspended our game operations during those national mourning days. Computer viruses may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce visitor traffic and harm our reputation. Computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect the NetEase websites and servers against the threat of such computer viruses and to alleviate any problems. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our systems is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and our visitor traffic may decrease. Computer hacking could damage our systems and reputation. Any compromise of security, such as computer hacking, could cause Internet usage to decline. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, 14 Table of Contents hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may have to spend significant capital and human resources to rectify any damage to our system. In addition, we cannot assure you that any measures we take against computer hacking will be effective. A well publicized computer security breach could significantly damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. Although we believe we have not experienced any hacking activity that allowed unauthorized access to any information stored on our network, caused any loss or corruption of data, software or other computer equipment, we have been subject to denial of service attacks that have caused portions of our network to be inaccessible for limited periods of time. In addition, we have had viruses or worms introduced into our network. Although we take a number of measures to ensure that our systems are secure and unaffected by security breaches, including ensuring that our servers are hosted at physically secure sites, limiting access to server ports, and using isolated intranets, passwords, and encryption technology, we cannot assure you that any measures we take against computer hacking will be effective. Some of our players make sales and purchases of our game accounts and virtual items through third-party auction websites, which may have a negative effect on our net revenues. Some of our players make sales and purchases of our game accounts and virtual items through third-party auction websites in exchange for real money. We do not generate any net revenues from these transactions. Accordingly, purchases and sales of our game accounts or virtual items on third-party websites could lead to decreased sales by us and also put downward pressure on the prices that we charge players for our virtual items and services, all of which could result in lower revenues generated for us by our games. New players may decide not to play our games as a result of any rule changes we might implement to restrict the players’ ability to trade in game accounts or virtual items, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial conditions. If our providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services, our business could be materially curtailed. We rely on affiliates of China Unicom (after its merger with China Netcom), China Telecom and CERNET to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for Internet users to access the NetEase websites and online games. If China Unicom, China Telecom, CERNET or their affiliates fail to provide such services or raise prices for their services, we may not be able to find a reliable and cost-effective substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. If this happens, our business could be materially curtailed. We may be held liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are published on the NetEase websites. We are involved in several intellectual property infringement claims or actions and are occasionally subject to defamation claims. We believe that the amounts claimed in these actions, in the aggregate, are not material to our business. However, these amounts may be increased for a variety of reasons as the claims progress, and we and our affiliates could be subject to additional defamation or infringement claims which, singly or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, if successful. We also could be subject to claims based upon content that is accessible on the NetEase websites such as content and materials posted by users on message boards, online communities, voting systems, e-mail or chat rooms that are offered on the NetEase websites. By providing technology for hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third party sites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information distributed by us. Moreover, users of the NetEase Web-based e-mail services could seek damages from us for: · unsolicited e-mails; · lost or misplaced messages; · illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or · interruptions or delays in e-mail service. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. Information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites may subject us to claims of violating Chinese laws. Violations or perceived violations of Chinese laws arising from information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites could result in significant penalties, including a temporary or complete cessation of our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda 15 Table of Contents Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the PRC Ministry of Industries and Information Technology, or MII (prior to the PRC government restructuring in March 2008, its predecessor, the Ministry of Information Industry), has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for content included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MII may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. In addition, the Ministry of Public Security has from time to time prohibited the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security also has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. The term “state secrets” has been broadly interpreted by Chinese governmental authorities in the past. We may be liable under these pronouncements for content and materials posted or transmitted by users on message boards, virtual communities, chat rooms or e-mails. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under the relevant regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. If the Chinese government takes any action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through the NetEase websites, or to limit or regulate any current or future community functions available to users or otherwise block the NetEase websites, our business would be significantly harmed. The information collected from our users may infringe on their privacy and may not be accurate. We collect demographic data, such as geographic location, income level and occupation, from our registered users in order to better understand users and their needs. We provide this data to online advertisers, on an anonymous aggregate basis, without disclosing personal details such as name and home address, to enable them to target specific demographic groups. If privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from collecting this information or from selling demographically targeted advertising, the NetEase websites may be less attractive to advertisers. In addition, if privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from collecting or using this data, the analysis of our target market and the developing trend of the subject online game may not be accurate. Further, we rely solely on the data provided by our users and do not verify the authenticity of such data. If the information that we collect is materially inaccurate or false, this may also adversely affect our implementation of the online game developing strategy. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective in preventing unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties have initiated litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, and additional claims may arise in the future. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or to license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights.” 16 Table of Contents We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who owned our shares or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75.0% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50.0% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25.0% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. However, because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. Under recently enacted U.S. legislation effective as of March 18, 2010 and subject to future guidance, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders (as defined below) will be required to file an annual information return with the IRS relating to their ownership of our shares or ADSs. Pursuant to recent IRS guidance, this reporting requirement has been suspended until the IRS releases a revised version of IRS Form 8621. Additional guidance is expected regarding the specific information that will be required to be reported on the revised IRS Form 8621. Prior to filing their annual income tax returns, U.S. Holders should consult their tax advisers regarding whether additional guidance has been issued with respect to this reporting requirement, and if so, how to comply with such guidance. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see Item 10.E “Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation.” If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends to us, our primary internal source of funds would decrease. NetEase.com, Inc. is a holding company with no significant assets other than cash on hand and its equity interests in its directly and indirectly-owned subsidiaries, including NetEase Beijing, NetEase (Hong Kong) Limited, or NetEase Hong Kong, NetEase Interactive Entertainment Ltd., or NetEase Interactive, Boguan, Hong Kong NetEase Interactive Entertainment Limited, or Hong Kong NetEase Interactive, Youdao Information, Guangzhou Interactive, NetEase Hangzhou, Guangzhou NetEase Information Technology Limited, or Guangzhou Information, Hangzhou Langhe Technology Co., Ltd., or Hangzhou Langhe, and Zhejiang Weiyang Technology Co., Ltd. As a result, our primary internal source of funds is dividend payments from our subsidiaries. If these subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our ADSs. PRC tax authorities may also require us to amend our contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao, Shanghai EaseNet and their respective shareholders in a manner that would materially and adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to us. In addition, Chinese legal restrictions permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Under Chinese law, NetEase Beijing, Guangzhou Interactive, Boguan, Guangzhou Information and NetEase Hangzhou are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds, except in cases where a company’s cumulative appropriations have already reached the statutory limit of 50% of that company’s registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Also see “— We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes following the promulgation of the EIT on January 1, 2008, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our global income and withholding income tax for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC corporate shareholders on profits earned after January 1, 2008.” above for further details. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 30 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. 17 Table of Contents Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty. We have entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to our business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to disputes under our material contracts, and if such disputes arise, we cannot assure you that we will prevail. Any dispute involving material contracts, even without merit, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and our business operations, and may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · inflation rates; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Fluctuation in Renminbi exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our ADSs and any cash dividend declared on them. The value of the Renminbi may fluctuate according to a number of factors. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which was set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to US dollars was generally stable. However, on July 21, 2005, as a result of the Renminbi being re-pegged to a basket of currencies, the Renminbi was revalued and appreciated against the US dollar. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of the RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. With this increased floating range, the RMB’s value may appreciate or depreciate significantly against the U.S. dollar in the long term. However, under the current global financial and economic conditions, we are not able to predict with any certainty how the RMB will move vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar in the future. Our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, and any fluctuation in the exchange rate of Renminbi may affect the value of, and dividends, if any, payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend payments in US dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. Current account transactions include payments of dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. As a result, our subsidiaries and affiliates in China may purchase foreign exchange for the payment of dividends to NetEase.com, Inc. and of license and content fees to offshore software and content partners. 18 Table of Contents In contrast, capital account transactions, which include foreign direct investment and loans, must be approved by the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. All participants in our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, Hui Zong Fa [2007] No. 78),” or Circular 78. Circular 78 covers equity compensation plans, such as a plan which authorizes the grant of restricted share awards. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company such as our company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings by July 5, 2007 if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. In compliance with Circular 78, we have registered with and obtained approvals from the SAFE office in Beijing for the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens. Nonetheless, we cannot predict whether SAFE will continue to enforce this circular or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans. Also, regardless of our measures taken in compliance with Circular 78, if it is determined that our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel, which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. The Chinese government has strengthened the regulation of investments made by Chinese residents in offshore companies and reinvestments in China made by these offshore companies. Our business may be adversely affected by these new restrictions. The SAFE has adopted certain regulations that require registration with, and approval from, Chinese government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by Chinese residents. The SAFE regulations retroactively require registration of investments in non-Chinese companies previously made by Chinese residents. In particular, the SAFE regulations require Chinese residents to file with SAFE information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as mergers, acquisitions, capital increases and decreases, external equity investments or equity transfers. In addition, Chinese residents must obtain approval from SAFE before they transfer domestic assets or equity interests in exchange for equity or other property rights in an offshore company. A newly established enterprise in China which receives foreign investments is also required to provide detailed information about its controlling shareholders and to certify whether it is directly or indirectly controlled by a domestic entity or resident. In the event that a Chinese shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the Chinese subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the Chinese subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above can result in liability under Chinese law for foreign exchange evasion. These regulations may have a significant impact on our present and future structuring and investment. We have requested our shareholders who to our knowledge are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under these regulations. We intend to take all necessary measures for ensuring that all required applications and filings will be duly made and all other requirements will be met. We further intend to structure and execute our future offshore acquisitions in a manner consistent with the new regulations and any other relevant legislation. However, because it is presently uncertain how the SAFE regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to comply with, qualify under, or obtain any approvals required by the regulations or other legislation. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any PRC shareholders of our company or any PRC company into which we invest will be able to comply with those requirements. The inability of our company or any PRC shareholder to secure required approvals or registrations in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions may subject us to legal sanctions, restrict our ability to pay dividends from our Chinese subsidiaries to our offshore holding company, and restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities or affect our ownership structure. 19 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INTERNET INDUSTRIES IN CHINA Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our customer and user base and limit the access to the NetEase websites or online games. Increased government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries in China may result in the Chinese government requiring us to obtain additional licenses or other governmental approvals to conduct our business which, if unattainable, may restrict our operations. The telecommunications industry, including Internet content provider, or ICP, services and online games, is highly regulated by the Chinese government, with the main relevant government authority being the MII. Pursuant to the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises promulgated by the State Council dated December 5, 2001, foreign investors are allowed to hold in the aggregate up to 50.0% of the total equity in any value-added telecommunications business in China. In addition, foreign and foreign invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating online games in China. To operate the NetEase websites in compliance with all the relevant ICP-related Chinese regulations, Guangzhou NetEase successfully obtained ICP licenses issued by the Guangdong Provincial Telecommunications Bureau in 2000. The ICP license of Guangzhou NetEase issued by the Guangzhou Provincial Telecommunications Bureau was replaced by the Value-Added Telecommunication Operating License issued by the MII in 2004. Guangzhou NetEase has also obtained the following licenses and registrations: a commercial website registration with the Beijing Municipal Administrative Bureau of Industry and Commerce, an audio-visual product operating license issued by Guangdong Culture Department to sell audio-visual products on the Internet, an Internet publishing license issued by General Administration of Press and Publication, an Internet Culture Operating License issued by the Ministry of Culture, or MOC, a license for online dissemination of drug-related information issued by Guangdong Food and Drug Administration, an Internet news information service license issued by the State Council Information Office, a permit for the Network Transmission of Audiovisual Programs issued by the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, a permit for the production of audiovisual programs issued by the Radio, Film and Television Administration of Guangdong and a license for the sale of security products for computer information systems issued by the Ministry of Public Security. It has also received approvals for online dissemination of health information from the Department of Health of Guangdong Province and approvals for provision of online education-related information from the Department of Education of Guangdong Province. NetEase.com, Inc. relies exclusively on contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase and its approvals to operate as an ICP. In addition, to operate the online games licensed from Blizzard in compliance with all the relevant ICP-related Chinese regulations, Shanghai EaseNet obtained a Value-Added Telecommunications Business Operating License issued by the Shanghai Provincial Telecommunications Bureau in October 2008 and an Internet Culture Operating License from MOC in October 2008. We cannot be certain, however, that we or our affiliates will be granted any other additional license, permit or clearance we may need now or in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that any local or national ICP or telecommunications license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of our services. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. The PRC government may issue new interpretations of the regulations regarding supervision of the information industry from time to time. In addition, we are uncertain as to whether the Chinese government will reclassify our business as a media or retail company, due to our acceptance of fees for Internet advertising, online games and wireless value-added and other services as sources of revenues, or as a result of our current corporate structure. Such reclassification could subject us to penalties or fines or significant restrictions on our business. Moreover, NetEase.com, Inc. may have difficulties enforcing its rights under the agreements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising, Youdao Computer, Wangyibao Company and Shanghai EaseNet if any of these parties breaches any of the agreements with them because NetEase.com, Inc. does not have approval from appropriate Chinese authorities to provide Internet content services, Internet advertising services or wireless value-added services. Future changes in Chinese government policies affecting the provision of information services, including the provision of online services, Internet access, e-commerce services, online advertising and online gaming may impose additional regulatory requirements on us or our service providers or otherwise harm our business. The Chinese government restricts the ability for foreign investors to invest in and operate in the telecommunications and online gaming businesses. In July 2006, the MII issued a notice to strengthen management of foreign investment in and operation of value-added telecommunication services. The notice emphasizes that foreign investors who wish to engage in value-added telecommunication services must strictly follow the relevant rules and regulations on foreign investment in telecommunication sectors. The notice also 20 Table of Contents prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to the notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication service license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice further requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Value-added services license holders are required to evaluate the compliance with the requirements set forth in the notice. To comply with these requirements, Guangzhou NetEase submitted its self-correction report to MII in 2007. In September 2009, GAPP, together with the National Copyright Administration, and National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening on the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Games, or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice restates that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game operating businesses in China via wholly-owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments and expressly prohibits foreign investors from gaining control over or participating in domestic online game operators through indirect ways such as establishing other joint venture companies, or contractual or technical arrangements. It is unclear whether the authorities will deem our VIE structure as a kind of such “indirect ways” by foreign investors to gain control over or participate in domestic online game operators. If our VIE structure is deemed as one such “indirect way” under the GAPP Notice, our VIE structure may be challenged by the authorities and the authorities may require us to restructure our VIE structure and take action to prohibit or restrict our business operations. In such case, we may not be able to operate or control business in the same manner as we currently do and may not be able to consolidate the VIEs. In addition, the authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such determination which may adversely impact our financial statements, operations and cash flows. The PRC government has intensified its regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently one of the primary venues for our users to access the NetEase websites and our services, especially online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés, at which many of our users access the NetEase websites and our services, especially online games. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafés have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may slow down the growth of Internet cafés. Moreover, in 2007 the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, one of the government agencies in charge of Internet café licensing, and other government agencies jointly issued a notice temporarily suspending the issuance of new Internet café licenses for a period of six months. In March 2010, the MOC issued a circular to increase the punishment for Internet cafés that allow minors to enter and use the Internet in violation of government regulations. According to this circular, among other things, the government authorities may revoke an Internet café’s Internet Culture Operation License if that Internet café allows three or more minors to enter and use the Internet at one time. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, for example, limiting customer age limits and hours of operation, based on the occurrence and perception of, and the media attention on, gang violence, arson, and other incidents in or associated with Internet cafés. So long as Internet cafés are one of the primary venues for our users to access the NetEase websites and services, especially online games, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base, thereby reducing our profitability and growth prospects. The Chinese government has taken steps to limit online game playing time for all minors and to otherwise control the content and operation of online games. These and any other new restrictions on online games may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. As part of its anti-addiction online game policy, the Chinese government has taken several steps to discourage minors under the age of 18 from continuously playing online games once they exceed a set number of hours of continuous play. For example, in July 2005, the MOC and the MII jointly issued an opinion which requires online game operators to develop systems and software for identity certification, to implement anti-addiction modifications to game rules and to restrict players under 18 years of age from playing certain games. Subsequently, in August 2005, GAPP proposed an online game anti-addiction system that would have reduced and eliminated experience points that a user can accumulate after three and five hours of consecutive playing, respectively. In March 2006, GAPP amended its proposal to require players to register with their real names and identity card numbers and to apply the anti-addiction system only to players under 18 years of age. In April 2007, GAPP and several other government authorities jointly promulgated the Notice Concerning the Protection of Minors’ Physical and Mental Well-being and Implementation of Anti-addiction System on Online Games, or the Anti-Addiction Notice, which confirmed the real-name verification proposal and required online game operators to develop and test their anti-addiction systems from April 2007 to July 2007, after which no online games can be registered or operated without an anti-addiction system in accordance with the Anti-Addiction Notice. Accordingly, we implemented our anti-addiction system to comply with the Anti-Addiction Notice. Since its implementation, we have not experienced a significant negative impact on our business as a result of the Anti-Addiction Notice. 21 Table of Contents In addition, on June 3, 2010, the MOC issued a decree on Interim Measures for the Administration of Online Games, or the Online Games Measures, which will be effective as of August 1, 2010. The Online Games Measures set forth certain requirements regarding online games, including requirements that game operators follow new registration procedures, publicize information about the content and suitability of their games, prevent access by minors to inappropriate games, avoid certain types of content in games targeted to minors, avoid game content that compels players to kill other players, manage virtual currency in certain ways and register users with their real identities. Furthermore, in July 2010 the MOC enacted the Notice on Implementing Interim Measures for the Administration of Online Games, or the Online Games Notice, in which several provisions of the Online Games Measures are supplemented, including the required standard clauses for online games service contracts between game operators and users and the timing for the implementation of a real identity registration system. The Online Games Notice also adopts several new measures, including requirements for the domestic online games joint operation by game developers and operators. Although many of these requirements reflect previously issued government regulations with which we already comply, certain new requirements may cause us to change the way we launch and operate our online games. Because the Online Games Measures and Online Games Notice are relatively new and it is unclear how the MOC will interpret and enforce them, we are unable to fully assess what impact, if any, these new requirements may have on our business. It has been reported in the Chinese media that the Chinese government has concerns about the social impact of online games, and it may continue to impose additional regulatory restrictions on us or our customers or otherwise take actions that harm our business. The Chinese government has not enacted any laws regarding virtual asset property rights and, accordingly, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game providers may have for virtual assets. One of the features of our MMORPGs which helps to build a large user base and maintain loyalty is that users can accumulate virtual tools, powers and rankings as they play the games. We believe that these virtual assets are highly valued by our users, particularly long-term users, and are traded among users. However, on occasion, such assets can be lost if, for example, a user’s identity is stolen by another user or we experience a system error or crash. The Chinese government has not enacted any laws regarding virtual asset property rights. Accordingly, we have no basis to determine what are the legal rights, if any, associated with virtual assets and what liabilities we could be exposed to for the loss or destruction of virtual assets. We could therefore potentially be held liable for the way in which we handle and protect virtual assets. Restrictions on virtual currency may adversely affect our online game revenues. Our online game revenues are collected through the sale of physical and virtual prepaid point cards, as described elsewhere on this annual report, including below in the “User Fees” section in Item 4.B of this annual report. On February 15, 2007, the MOC issued the Notice on the Reinforcement of the Administration of Internet Cafés and Online Games, or the Internet Cafés Notice, which directs the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the PRC economy and financial system. Under the Internet Cafés Notice, the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual users should be strictly limited, with a clear distinction between virtual transactions and real transactions, so that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. On June 4, 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Online Game Virtual Currency, or the Virtual Currency Notice, which defined “Virtual Currency” as a type of virtual exchange instrument that is issued by online game operators, purchased directly or indirectly by the game user by exchanging legal currency at a certain exchange rate, saved outside the game programs, stored in servers provided by the online game operators in electronic record format and represented by specific numeric units. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice categorizes companies involved with virtual currency as either issuers or trading platforms and prohibits companies from simultaneously engaging both as issuers and as trading platforms. The Virtual Currency Notice’s stated objective is to limit the circulation of virtual currency and thereby reduce concerns that it may impact real world inflation. To accomplish this, the Virtual Currency Notice requires online game operators to report the total amount of their issued virtual currencies on a quarterly basis and to refrain from issuing disproportionate amounts of virtual currencies in order to generate revenues. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice reiterates that virtual currency can only be provided to users in exchange for an RMB payment and can only be used to pay for virtual goods and services of the issuers. Online game operators are strictly prohibited from conducting lucky draws or lotteries in which participants pay cash or virtual currency to win game items or virtual currency. The Virtual Currency Notice also requires online game operators to keep transaction data records for no less than 180 days and to not provide virtual currency trading services to minors. In order to comply with the requirements of the Virtual Currency Notice, we may need to change our prepaid point card distribution and database systems, resulting in higher costs of our online game operation, lower sales of our prepaid cards, or other changes in our business model. Such changes may therefore have an adverse effect on our revenues from online games. 22 Table of Contents Regulatory restrictions on financial transactions may adversely affect the operation and profitability of our business. On April 16, 2009, the People’s Bank of China issued a notice, or the PBOC Notice, regarding the regulation of non-financial institutions engaged in the business of effecting payments and settlements. The PBOC Notice requires non-financial institutions established before April 16, 2009 which are engaged in the payment and settlement business to register with the People’s Bank of China before July 31, 2009. According to the PBOC Notice, such registration is interpreted as a basis for future policy making rather than a permit. Guangzhou NetEase has finished the required registration with the People’s Bank of China. In addition, on June 14, 2010, the People’s Bank of China issued the Measures for the Administration of Non-financial Institutions Engaging in Payment and Settlement Services, or the PBOC Measures, which were effective as of September 1, 2010 and require that non-financial institutions engaging in the business of effecting payments and settlements before June 14, 2010 obtain a permit from the People’s Bank of China by August 31, 2011 to continue such business. On December 1, 2010, the People’s Bank of China issued Detailed Rules for the Implementation of the Administrative Measures for the Payment Services Provided by Non-financial Institutions, which provide, among other things, further explanation for the qualifications of applicants and more detailed description for the application materials. We currently operate an online payment system used by both distributors of our prepaid point cards and end users of our online services. This payment system may require a permit under the PBOC Measures to continue in operation, and we are currently in the process of preparing an application to the PBOC for such permit. As the PBOC Measures are quite new, we cannot be certain how they will be interpreted and enforced by the People’s Bank of China and when or if we will be granted such permit. An inability to continue operating our current online payment system would likely materially and adversely affect the operation and profitability of our business. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many companies offer competitive products or services including online games, Chinese language-based Web search, retrieval and navigation services, wireless value-added services and extensive Chinese language content, informational and community features, and e-mail. Currently, our competition comes from Chinese language-based Internet portal companies as well as US-based portal companies. Some of our current and potential competitors are much larger than we are, and currently offer, and could further develop or acquire, content and services that compete with the NetEase websites. We also face competition from online game developers and operators, Internet service providers, wireless value-added service providers, website operators and providers of Web browser software that incorporate search and retrieval features. With respect to online games, we believe that more competitors are entering this market in China and that our competitors are becoming more active in both licensing foreign-developed games and developing games in-house, which trends, if they continue, could adversely affect our online game revenues in the future. We believe that competition in the online advertising industry in China has intensified as new entrants have come into the market, such as Baidu, Tencent, Alibaba and other vertical Internet portals. Any of our present or future competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us and, therefore, achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Because many of our existing competitors as well as a number of potential competitors have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name and brand recognition, better connections with the Chinese government, larger customer bases and databases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any increased competition could reduce page views, make it difficult for us to attract and retain users, reduce or eliminate our market share, lower our profit margins and reduce our revenues. 