ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a history of net losses and may never become profitable. We commenced operations in 1996 and are still in an early stage of development. We have not commercialized any products, and we have incurred significant losses to date. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $130.8 million. To date, our revenues have been primarily from collaborations and government grant awards. Our expenses have consisted principally of costs incurred in research and development and from general and 16 Table of Contents administrative costs associated with our operations. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including a net loss of approximately $29.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. We expect our expenses to increase and to continue to incur operating losses for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts for our drug candidates and research programs. The amount of time necessary to successfully commercialize any of our drug candidates is long and uncertain, and successful commercialization may not occur at all. As a result, we may never become profitable. We expect that additional financing will be required, and an inability to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations on acceptable terms or at all would threaten the continued operation of our business. We expect that additional financing will be required to fund operations. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on favorable terms. We have consumed substantial amounts of cash to date and expect to incur significant operating expenditures over the next several years as we continue to advance our clinical product candidates into and through clinical trials. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, additional collaboration or licensing arrangements, government grant awards or any combination of the foregoing or other arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. In July 2005, we entered into a $35.0 million line of credit facility. However, we may not be able to borrow funds under this credit facility if we are not able to meet various conditions, covenants and representations, including covenants requiring us to maintain: • a ratio of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, investments and eligible accounts to the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the line of credit of at least 1.3 to 1; • at least six months “remaining months liquidity,” which is calculated by dividing (a) cash and cash equivalents, investments and eligible accounts by (b) our cash burn calculated on a rolling three-month basis; and • aggregate balances in our investment and operating accounts with Silicon Valley Bank or SVB Asset Management equal to the lesser of (a) the amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount under the line of credit plus $5.0 million; and (b) 85% of our aggregate cash and investment account balances. We may need to raise additional capital in order to stay in compliance with these covenants. Further debt financing, if available, may subject us to similar or additional restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, product candidates or marketing territories. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research or development programs; lose rights under existing licenses; or relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. Insufficient funds may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We believe that our existing cash and investment securities and anticipated cash flow from our existing collaboration with Roche will be sufficient to support our current operating plan into the first half of 2007, although we may choose to obtain additional financing from time to time. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be 17 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES wrong. Our future capital uses and requirements depend on numerous forward-looking factors, including the following: • our ability to establish any new collaborations, our rights and obligations under any new collaboration agreements and our ability to generate revenues under any new collaborations; • the extent to which clinical and other development activities are funded by our current collaborators, Roche and the NCI; • the progress, success and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials of our drug candidates; • any acceleration of our clinical development plans; • our ability to maintain or extend our existing collaborations with Roche and the NCI; • the progress, number and costs of our research programs; • the costs and timing of obtaining, enforcing and defending patent and other intellectual property rights; • any need to obtain licenses to additional patents or other intellectual property in order to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our product candidates; • any need to expand our manufacturing capabilities; and • expenses associated with any possible future litigation. Our workforce reduction announced in March 2006 may have an adverse impact on our ability to make significant progress on our clinical and research programs. In March 2006, we announced a workforce reduction of 39 employees to reflect a realignment of our research priorities and corporate operations to support our clinical product candidates and pipeline opportunities. Workforce and expense reductions have resulted in a reduction in the scope of our research programs, and further reductions could result in the reduced scope of, and progress on, our clinical and research programs. In addition, employees, whether or not directly affected by a reduction, may seek alternative employment. Although our employees are required to sign a confidentiality agreement at the time of hire, the confidential nature of certain proprietary information may not be maintained in the course of any such future employment. We may face litigation from former employees who were affected by the workforce reduction. In addition, the implementation of expense reduction programs has resulted in, and may in the future result in, the diversion of efforts of our executive management team and other key employees, which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees and consultants, we may not be able to successfully operate our business. Retaining our current management and other employees and recruiting qualified scientific personnel to perform future research, manufacturing and development work, as well as key management personnel with expertise in clinical testing and finance, among other areas, will be critical to our success. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and could leave our employment at will. In the past, we have experienced turnover among our management, including the recent resignations of our former Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. In addition, in March 2006, we experienced a restructuring that resulted in a workforce reduction. We may have difficulty attracting required personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce and expense reductions, or otherwise. Competition is intense among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists and other personnel, and we may not be able to retain or recruit sufficient skilled personnel on acceptable terms to allow us to pursue collaborations and develop our product candidates and research programs, which would likely have an adverse effect on our business. 18 Table of Contents Our 1996 Stock Option Plan will expire on June 12, 2006. Regulations implemented by the NASDAQ National Market require stockholder approval for all stock option plans, and regulations implemented by the New York Stock Exchange prohibit NYSE member organizations from giving a proxy to vote on equity-compensation plans unless the beneficial owner of the shares has given voting instructions. As a result of these regulations, we will not be able to grant stock options to employees after our 1996 Stock Option Plan expires unless our stockholders approve a new plan. If a new stock option plan is not approved, we may incur increased compensation costs, be required to change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. If our current collaborations are unsuccessful or if conflicts develop with our collaborators, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated, our revenues could significantly decrease and our operations may be adversely affected. We have a corporate research and commercialization collaboration with Roche in the field of epothilones. We also have collaborations with, or have licenses to technology and compounds from, several research groups, including Sloan-Kettering in the field of epothilones, the NCI in the field of geldanamycin analogs and Stanford University in the field of polyketide technology. The agreements permit our collaborators or licensors to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances. Our collaboration agreements with the NCI are currently set to expire in October 2006. We may not be able to maintain or extend these collaborations or license agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not maintain, extend or replace our corporate collaboration with Roche, our research and development efforts could be delayed, our revenues would significantly decrease and our operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our research collaborations, including our collaboration agreements with the NCI, or if our license agreements are terminated, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated or we could lose our rights to use the licensed technology and compounds. We control neither the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators devote to our programs or potential products, nor the scope, content and timing of the efforts that they conduct or permit under the collaborations. As a result, we do not know if our collaborators will dedicate sufficient resources or if the development or commercialization efforts by our corporate partners will be successful. We also do not know if the development or commercialization efforts by our collaborators will be the same as those we would choose to devote if we solely controlled the development and commercialization of our programs and product candidates. In particular, in our collaboration with Roche, we do not control the amount and timing of resources that Roche devotes to the epothilone program beyond limited funding for certain Kosan activities specified under the contract, and we do not control the scope, content and timing of the preclinical studies, clinical trials and other development efforts that Roche conducts or permits under the program. For example, we anticipate that Roche will pursue late-stage clinical development of only one of our epothilone product candidates, if any. We anticipate that Roche will make a decision in this regard in 2006. Roche may elect to cease development of KOS-862, our lead epothilone compound, in favor of further development of KOS-1584, which is currently in Phase I clinical trials. In our collaboration with the NCI, we do not control the selection, conduct, timing and resources provided to clinical trials of geldanamycin analogs sponsored by the NCI. For these reasons, we may choose to undertake product development efforts that are within the scope of our collaborations at our own expense. We also do not know whether our current collaborative partners or future collaborative partners, if any, might pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by collaborative arrangements with us. In addition, business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to continue the collaboration with us. 19 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Failure by our corporate partners to develop or commercialize a compound or product for which they have rights from us could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if Roche does not successfully develop and commercialize a product from our epothilone program, we may not receive any future milestone payments and will not receive any royalties under our collaboration with Roche. If our collaborators fail to conduct the collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner or if they or our licensors breach or terminate their agreements with us, the development or commercialization of the affected product candidates, technology or research program could be delayed or terminated. If any of our existing collaboration agreements are terminated, we may be required to seek new collaborators or to undertake product development and commercialization at our own expense. This may limit the number of product candidates we will be able to develop and commercialize, significantly increase our capital requirements and reduce the likelihood of successful product introduction. Disputes might also arise with collaborators or licensors concerning rights to particular compounds or technologies. If we are unable to resolve these disputes in our favor, we could lose our rights to use those compounds or technologies. If we fail to enter into new collaborative agreements in the future, our business and operations would be negatively impacted. Our strategy depends upon the formation and sustainability of multiple collaborative arrangements and license agreements with third parties. We expect to rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for license and technology rights. Although we have established collaborative arrangements and various license agreements, we do not know if we will be able to establish additional arrangements on favorable terms, or whether current or any future collaborative arrangements will ultimately be successful. There have been, and may continue to be, a significant number of business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduced number of potential future corporate collaborators, which may limit our ability to find partners who will work with us in developing and commercializing our drug candidates. If we do not enter into new collaborative agreements, we may be required to curtail, suspend or terminate research and development programs and therefore our ability to generate revenues from these programs will be adversely affected. Our ability to start new research and development programs may also be materially harmed. Our potential products are in an early stage of development, and substantial additional effort and expense will be necessary for development. Our drug candidates are in early stages of research and development. We may not be able to develop products that prove to be safe and effective, meet applicable regulatory standards, are capable of being manufactured at reasonable costs or can be marketed successfully. All of the potential products that we are currently developing will require significant development and investment, including extensive clinical testing, before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. Our products must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA and international regulatory authorities for commercial use. We will need to conduct significant additional research and clinical trials before we can determine if our products are sufficiently safe and effective to file with the FDA and other regulatory agencies for product approval. Clinical trials are expensive, and therefore, significant amounts of money will need to be spent testing our products. In addition, significant time and investment will be required to try to develop manufacturing processes for our products so that they are economical to manufacture on a commercial scale and satisfactory to the FDA and other governmental authorities. 20 Table of Contents The progress and results of our animal and human testing are highly uncertain. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with clinical data that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products before they can be approved for commercial sale. As a result, commercialization of our product candidates depends upon successful completion of preclinical and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. It may take us a number of years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. For example, in October 2005, we discontinued a Phase II clinical study of KOS-862 in hormone-refractory prostate cancer because the study did not meet the primary objective of tumor marker response in the first stage of a two stage clinical trial, and we previously discontinued clinical studies of KOS-862 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer and colorectal cancer. We could experience similar failures in other current or future clinical testing of our product candidates. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of trials do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, including Kosan, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Also, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent further testing or regulatory approval. We do not know whether clinical trials of our product candidates (including ongoing and anticipated clinical trials of KOS-953, KOS-1022, KOS-862, KOS-1584, KOS-2187 or other product candidates) will begin on time or whether any of our clinical trials will be completed on schedule, or at all. We also do not know whether clinical trials will indicate that an earlier-stage compound, such as KOS-1584 or KOS-1022, will be more appropriate for commercial development than a related compound that is at a later stage of clinical development, such as KOS-862 or KOS-953, respectively. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be suspended, repeated or terminated. Certain of the clinical trials of our product candidates are or may in the future be designed to include two stages, with the decision whether to proceed to the second stage dependent on results obtained in the first stage. Failure to achieve predetermined response rates as defined in the protocol may result in the decision not to proceed into the second stage of the trial. We have multiple product candidates in human clinical trials for the treatment of cancer, KOS-953, KOS-1022, KOS-862 and KOS-1584. Anticancer drugs frequently have a narrow therapeutic window between efficacy and toxicity. If unacceptable toxicity is observed in a clinical trial, the trial may be terminated at an early stage. For example, in June 2004, we discontinued a Phase II clinical study of KOS-862 in colorectal cancer due to unanticipated cumulative drug toxicities in patients who had previously been treated with the cancer treatment oxaliplatin. We also observed a higher incidence of adverse events resulting in patient withdrawal in our Phase II clinical study of KOS-862 in hormone-refractory prostate cancer than in our Phase II non-small cell lung cancer trial. We cannot predict whether future trials of KOS-862, or other compounds, will demonstrate toxicity issues or adverse events resulting in a significant patient withdrawal. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time if we, our collaborators, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities believe the patients participating in our studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or that study protocols or patient informed consents should be amended to reflect additional health risks, additional testing procedures or other changes. For example, in September 2005, we temporarily suspended enrollment in our KOS-953 and KOS-1022 clinical trials in connection with a request by the FDA to amend the protocols and patient informed consents for those trials. We provided amended protocols and informed consents for those clinical trials to the FDA in response to certain of its requested changes, and we 21 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES resumed enrollment in the clinical trials. While the FDA has not agreed or objected to these changes, the FDA may require further changes to these protocols and informed consents, which may have a material adverse effect on the timing of, and our ability to conduct, the KOS-953 and KOS-1022 clinical trials. Our ability to commence or timely complete clinical trials may be adversely affected by many factors, including: • ineffectiveness of the study compound, or perceptions by physicians that the compound is not effective for a particular indication; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compound for use in clinical trials; • a failure to obtain approval from the FDA, other regulatory authorities or an investigational site’s institutional review board to conduct a clinical trial; • inability to reach agreement with a sufficient number of investigational sites to conduct a study; • the number of patients required, slower than expected rate of patient recruitment or inability to recruit a sufficient number of patients; • adverse medical events or the death of patients during a clinical trial, even if caused by the advanced status of their disease or medical problems that are not related to our product candidates; • inconclusive or negative results from the clinical trial; • competing clinical trials in the same or similar indication; • third-party clinical investigators failing to perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with a clinical trial protocol, and other third-party organizations not performing data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; and • a decision by the FDA or other governmental authorities to require suspension or modification of a clinical trial. Our product development costs will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals, if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned or if our clinical trials include more expensive testing or other procedures than planned. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. If any clinical trials of our product candidates are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development, manufacture and commercialization are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States, and by comparable authorities in other countries. Our products may not be commercialized unless and until our collaborators or we obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or foreign governmental authorities to do so. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, novelty, safety and efficacy of the product candidates involved. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and, although our personnel have experience from working at other companies, we as a company have no experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA or other foreign regulatory approvals to commercialize our products in a timely manner, if at all. 22 Table of Contents Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application for regulatory approval. Furthermore, the approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval varies among countries and can involve additional testing beyond that required by the FDA. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The FDA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies or modifications to the manufacturing processes or facilities or quality control procedures for our products. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or other regulatory authorities. For example, we currently conduct, and expect to conduct in the future, clinical trials for our product candidates in countries outside of the United States. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may reject data from clinical trials conducted in other countries if they are not conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory standards and procedures. We do not know whether clinical trials for our product candidates (including ongoing and anticipated clinical trials of KOS-953, KOS-1022, KOS-862, KOS-1584 or other product candidates) will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficient to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products under development will prevent receipt of FDA and foreign approvals and, ultimately, commercialization of our products. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our products, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform this function. We also rely on Roche to conduct certain clinical trials for KOS-862 and potentially KOS-1584 and the NCI to conduct certain clinical trials for 17-AAG and KOS-1022. We may rely on future collaborators to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. If any of these third parties do not successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA and the European Medicines Agency have granted orphan drug status to 17-AAG for the treatment of multiple myeloma and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and, in the United States, specific tax credits. Generally, if a company receives the first marketing approval for a product with an orphan drug designation in the clinical indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to ten years in Europe (reviewable after six years), and for a period of seven years in the United States. This exclusivity, however, could block the approval of KOS-953 if a competitor obtains approval before us of a product containing 17-AAG for the treatment of multiple myeloma or chronic myelogenous leukemia in the United States or Europe. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. 23 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Even if any of our product candidates receives regulatory approval, we may still face significant development and regulatory difficulties. Even if the FDA or other regulatory authorities approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If any of our approved products, our collaborators or we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory authority may take various actions, including: • issuing warning letters; • imposing civil or criminal penalties; • suspending regulatory approval; • refusing to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; • imposing restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seizing or detaining products or requiring a product recall. Any inability to protect our proprietary technologies could significantly harm our business and ability to successfully commercialize product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries and prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have. Intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and the laws of a particular country may afford less intellectual property protection than another country. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. However, the patent positions of biotechnology companies, including our patent position, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our patent applications will be allowed or any resulting patents will be valid and enforceable. Further, our patents or patent applications or those of our licensors could be placed into interference, and we may lose our rights in such patents or applications. In particular, two of our exclusively licensed patents, which cover KOS-862 and its use, are the subject of an interference proceeding with a patent application concerning epothilones C, D, E, and F filed by Gesellschaft für Biotechnologische Forschung, or GBF. This patent application is licensed to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. Patents may be challenged, held unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from third parties may not provide protection against competitors. 24 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patents or pending patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid and enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors and collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. We apply for patents covering our technologies, drug candidates, formulations and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. For example, 17-AAG, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in the most advanced product candidate in our Hsp90 inhibitor program, KOS-953, was originally disclosed in a now-expired third party patent. Consequently, others can develop products containing 17-AAG. We are aware of at least two other companies that have been developing product candidates containing or based on 17-AAG, and these companies have filed patent applications relating to their products in development. Other competitors may be currently developing, or may in the future develop, products containing or based on 17-AAG. In addition, we generally are unable to control the patent prosecution of technology that we license from others to the same degree as we would for our own technology. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We have taken measures to protect our confidential information and trade secrets. However, these measures may not provide adequate protection. We seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, consultants and others. Nevertheless, parties may breach these agreements or competitors may otherwise obtain or independently develop our trade secrets. Patents related to one of our product candidates, KOS-862, are the subject of an interference involving patent rights licensed to us. Oppositions have been filed in Europe against patents granted to a third party that cover this compound. These proceedings or any other proceedings are costly, and an unfavorable outcome could prevent us from commercializing this compound. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies and compounds filed by, and issued to, other parties. Others have filed patent applications or have been granted patents claiming inventions also claimed or licensed by us, and we may have to participate in an interference or other proceeding before a patent agency or court to determine priority of invention or which party was first to invent and, thus, has the right to a patent for these inventions. Two of our exclusively licensed patents, which cover KOS-862 and its use, are the subject of an interference proceeding with a patent application concerning epothilones C, D, E and F filed by GBF. GBF has licensed this patent application to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, one of our competitors. 25 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Further, we believe one or more interferences may be declared between patents and applications we own or have exclusively licensed and patents and applications owned by Novartis AG relating to epothilone biosynthetic genes; and patents and applications owned by Abbott Laboratories or Biotica Technologies Ltd. relating to erythromycin PKS genes, methods for altering PKS genes, and erythromycin analogs. In April 2005, a hearing was held at the European Patent Office to address an opposition filed by Biotica to one of our exclusively licensed patents related to the recombinant production of polyketides. Although the written decision has not yet been issued, at the hearing, the patent was maintained (upheld), but with narrowing amendments; the time for Biotica to appeal the ruling has not yet expired. In addition, the European Patent Office has recently granted patents to GBF, which have been licensed to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and which, if valid in individual European countries, would cover KOS-862 in those countries. Formal oppositions to these patents have been filed with the European Patent Office. A proceeding or a lawsuit involving an interference or opposition could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable, and if the outcome is unfavorable, we could be required to license the other party’s rights, on terms that may be unfavorable to us, or cease using the technology. An interference or opposition may also result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference or opposition. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the biotechnology area are often settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that a license would be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Companies and others developing products that could compete with our product candidates, such as Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Novartis AG in the area of potential epothilone products, may be particularly unwilling to grant us a license at any price. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses, we may not be able to manufacture or commercialize, which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims by third-parties of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend time and money and could deprive us of valuable rights needed to develop or commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. Other parties may currently or in the future possess intellectual property rights covering drug candidates that we are developing or desire to develop; methods of treatment or administration involving our drug candidates; formulations of our drug candidates; and genes, gene fragments, cell lines, compounds and other technologies we use or may wish to use. Any infringement of patent rights or violation of other proprietary rights may require us to obtain a license from another party, forego product development or commercialization or face lawsuits or other claims. The biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We are aware of patents and published patent applications that, if valid, and if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring the rights to these patents, may block our ability to commercialize products based on the drug candidates that we are developing or pursue our polyketide synthase, or PKS, gene manipulation and production technologies. We cannot be sure that other parties have not filed for or obtained relevant patents that could affect our ability to obtain patents or operate our business. Others may challenge our patent or other intellectual property rights or sue us for patent infringement, misappropriation of their intellectual property rights or breach of license agreements. We may be required to commence legal proceedings to resolve our patent or other intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any litigation or administrative proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in our patents being deemed invalid, unenforceable or revoked, require us to license disputed rights from others or to cease using the disputed technology. In addition, our involvement in any of 26 Table of Contents these proceedings may cause us to incur substantial costs and result in diversion of management and technical personnel. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that our products or the use of our technologies infringes these patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any claims that the use of our technologies infringes any patents, defending ourselves against any claim that we are employing any proprietary technology without authorization or enforcing our patents against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop producing certain products and using certain methods; • develop non-infringing products and methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from other parties. We may not be able to obtain licenses from other parties at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses at a reasonable cost or at all, we could encounter substantial delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods and products, which we may not be able to accomplish. Litigation or the failure to obtain licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or commercializing products and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. Manufacturing difficulties could delay or preclude commercialization of our products and substantially increase our expenses. We currently use two manufacturers to make 17-AAG, which is the active pharmaceutical ingredient in KOS-953, and KOS-1022. We formulate the final drug product for KOS-953 at our own facility and through contract manufacturers. We formulate the final drug product for KOS-1022 through contract manufacturers. The NCI currently formulates drug product for the formulation of 17-AAG being studied by it under our CRADA. We maintain a limited inventory of KOS-953 and KOS-1022 at our facilities in Hayward, California, and we also maintain a limited inventory at the facilities of an outside contractor. The NCI is not obligated to maintain an inventory of either the active pharmaceutical ingredient or formulated drug product for the formulation of 17-AAG or KOS-1022 being studied by the NCI under our CRADA. In our epothilone program, we are the sole manufacturer of the active pharmaceutical ingredient for KOS-862, and we rely on contract manufacturers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient for KOS-1584. We use a single outside contractor to formulate drug product for KOS-862, and drug product for KOS-1584 is formulated at our facilities and by an outside contractor. We maintain limited inventories of formulated drug product for KOS-862 and KOS-1584 at our facilities in Hayward, California and at the facilities of an outside contractor. Limited inventories of formulated drug product for KOS-862 are also maintained by Roche. If any of our or our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing or inventory facilities encounter delays, are destroyed or otherwise become unavailable to us, then the clinical development of our product candidates or submissions for their regulatory approval, and therefore commercialization, could be delayed or precluded. Adverse effects would be particularly acute if problems arise with our sole sourcing or inventory relationships. Alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all because manufacturing processes for our product candidates are complex and may be subject to a lengthy regulatory approval process. 27 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES A number of factors could cause prolonged interruptions in the manufacturing and supply of our products, including: • the failure of a supplier to provide raw materials or key intermediates used for manufacture of our products; • equipment malfunctions or failures; • the failure to manufacture in accordance with current good manufacturing practices or other regulatory requirements; • the delay of product shipments due to U.S. custom regulations or third-party carriers used to transport our products, and damage to our products while they are in transit; • changes in FDA or other regulatory authority requirements or standards that require modifications to the manufacturing processes or facilities used in the production of our products; • action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to suspend production of one or more of our products; or • difficulties in scaling-up production of our products for large clinical trials or commercial supply. While our manufacturing personnel have extensive experience from working at other companies, we as a company have no experience manufacturing products for commercial sale. We may encounter difficulties in scaling-up our manufacturing processes and equipment. We may not be able to achieve such scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, if at all. In addition, our facilities in Hayward, California are located within the San Francisco Bay Area, an area where earthquakes periodically occur. Our access to any key intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredient or formulated drug product for our product candidates sourced or inventoried solely through our facilities in Hayward, California may be subject to interruption in the event of an earthquake. As discussed above, we rely upon outside contractors to manufacture and supply to us key intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients and formulated drug product for our product candidates. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates and components thereof may adversely affect our ability to continue in a timely manner clinical development of our product candidates and may adversely affect any future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop on a timely and competitive basis. Dependence on contract manufacturers involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside of our control, including: • failure of a contract manufacturer to manufacture products to our specifications or to deliver products in the quantities or timeframe that we require; • a decision by the FDA or other regulatory authorities not to approve our use of a particular contract manufacturer to supply our products; • intellectual property rights to any improvements in a manufacturing process or new manufacturing processes being owned by or shared with a contract manufacturer; • termination of an agreement with a contract manufacturer or increased prices charged by a contract manufacturer; or • a contract manufacturer declaring bankruptcy or otherwise going out of business. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our products and could result in significantly increased costs. In addition, our future contract manufacturers may not be in the United States, and we currently utilize contract manufacturers located outside the United States. Consequently, we may face additional manufacturing difficulties due 28 Table of Contents to a number of potential factors, including importation and customs issues, political uncertainties and a potentially limited ability to enforce our contractual rights against parties not located within the United States. We face intense competition from large pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and academic groups. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as large biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies and products. These organizations may develop or currently possess technologies or products that are superior alternatives to ours. For example, companies with competing Hsp90 inhibitors include Conforma Therapeutics, which has initiated Phase I clinical trials with its formulation of 17-AAG in solid tumors and chronic myelogenous leukemia, Infinity Pharmaceuticals, which has initiated Phase I clinical trials of its Hsp90 inhibitor in multiple myeloma and gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and Vernalis plc, which has announced plans to enter clinical trials of its Hsp90 inhibitor in the second half of 2006 in collaboration with Novartis AG, as well as other companies reported to be pursuing Hsp90 inhibitors. Competing epothilones in clinical development include those being developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb (reported to be in Phase III clinical trials), Novartis AG (reported to be in Phase III clinical trials) and Schering AG (reported to be in Phase II clinical trials). Gastrointestinal motility competitors include Chugai Pharmaceuticals, whose motilide agonist is reported to be in Phase II clinical trials. Further, our competitors in the polyketide gene-engineering field may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products or may hold or develop patents or other proprietary rights that may prevent us from practicing our technologies and pursuing our programs. Some of these competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets to produce polyketides for commercial purposes. Any products that we develop through our technologies will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets. Development of pharmaceutical products requires significant investment and resources. Many of the organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staffs, facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in discovery and developing drugs, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our technologies and products or that would render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • our ability to develop novel compounds with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure and protect intellectual property rights based on our innovations; • the efficacy, safety and reliability of our product candidates; • the speed at which we develop our product candidates; • our ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; • the timing and scope of regulatory approvals; • our ability to manufacture and sell commercial quantities of future products to the market; • acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers; and • the development of effective pricing and reimbursement strategies. 29 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES If we face product liability claims, these claims will divert our management’s time and we will incur litigation costs, and if we are held liable, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially harmed. We face an inherent business risk of liability claims in the event that the use of our potential products in clinical trials or otherwise, or any other products manufactured in our facility, results in personal injury or death. Even though we have obtained product liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation, because litigation related to these claims would strain our financial resources in addition to consuming the time and attention of our management. If we are sued for any injuries caused by our products or products manufactured at our facility, our liability could exceed our total assets. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Some of these materials may be novel, including bacteria with novel properties and bacteria that produce biologically active compounds. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, we could be sued for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties or our collaborators of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or commercialization efforts. We have a stockholders rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our corporate charter documents that may result in outcomes with which you do not agree. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future may adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for third parties to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors and prevents our stockholders from acting by written consent. These provisions and other provisions of our bylaws and of Delaware law applicable to us could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. This could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. This is because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team. We have adopted a rights agreement under which all stockholders have the right to purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock at an exercise price of $70.00 per one one-hundredth of a share, if a person acquires more than 20% of our common stock. The rights plan could make it more difficult for a person to acquire a majority of our 30 Table of Contents outstanding voting stock. The rights plan could also reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without the rights plan. In addition, the existence of the rights plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the rights plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us and may not make decisions that are in the best interest of all stockholders. Our officers, directors and their affiliates together controlled approximately 27% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, are able to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of us and might affect the market price of our common stock, even when a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders. In addition, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements, which we would not otherwise consider. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. During the period from January 1, 2005 through December 31, 2005, our common stock traded between $3.96 and $9.77 on the NASDAQ National Market. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • announcements of technological developments in research by us or our competitors; • delay or failure in initiating, conducting, completing or analyzing clinical trials or unsatisfactory design or results of these trials by our collaborators or us; • developments in clinical trials for potentially competitive product candidates; • changes in the United States or foreign health care systems or regulations; • regulatory approvals for competitive product candidates or delays or failures by our collaborators or us in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • published reports by securities analysts; • announcements of expirations, terminations or amendments of collaborations, licenses or government research grants, or announcements that we have entered into new collaboration, licensing or similar arrangements; • departures of key personnel; • developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; • litigation or an unfavorable outcome in litigation; • sales of our common stock, including sales by previous executive officers and other former employees or consultants; • announcements of, and actual or anticipated fluctuations in, our financial results; and • economic and other external factors, disasters or crises. 31 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ National Market and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If this type of litigation were instituted against us, we would be faced with substantial costs and management’s attention and resources would be diverted, which could in turn seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our quarterly results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, creating investor losses. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • expiration or termination of research contracts with collaborators or government research grants, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties under our collaboration agreement with Roche or any future collaboration or license agreements; • the timing and willingness of collaborators to develop and commercialize our products; • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect our collaborators’ research and development expenditures; and • costs and expenses related to any litigation or administrative proceedings in which we may be involved. If our revenues decline or do not grow due to expiration, termination or amendment of current or future collaboration agreements, licenses or government research grants, failure to obtain new contracts or other factors, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses correspondingly. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenues could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would probably decline. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will require us to measure and recognize employee stock options as compensation expense on our financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R, which will require us to record a charge to earnings for the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions, including stock options and employee stock purchase plans, effective January 1, 2006. This change will increase our future operating expenses but have no impact on our financial position. 32 Table of Contents If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, on an annual basis, our management is required to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to make its annual assessment are complex and require significant documentation and testing. While our internal controls over financial reporting were deemed effective by both our management and our independent auditors as of December 31, 2005, there may be changes in our systems, processes or operations that will affect the effectiveness of internal controls in the future. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Our future assessments of internal controls may continue to result in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, investor confidence and our stock price could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 