Risk Factors” of Solexa’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2006, and may include additional risks of which we are not currently aware or which we currently do not believe are material. If any of the events or circumstances underlying these risks actually occur, Solexa’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed and, as a result, Solexa may, among other things, fail to achieve the anticipated revenue growth following the merger. The merger will cause dilution of Illumina’s earnings per share. The merger and the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement are expected to have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share at least through 2007 due to losses of Solexa, the additional shares of Illumina common stock that were issued in the merger, the transaction and integration-related costs and other factors such as the potential failure to realize any benefit from synergies anticipated in the merger. These factors could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents Solexa had a material weakness in its internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. If additional material weaknesses are identified in the future, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our consolidated financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading of our common stock. As of December 31, 2005, Solexa did not maintain effective control over the application of GAAP related to the financial reporting process. This control deficiency resulted in numerous adjustments being required to bring Solexa’s financial statements into compliance with GAAP. Additionally, this deficiency could have resulted in material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Accordingly, Solexa’s management determined that this control deficiency constituted a material weakness. Because of this material weakness, Solexa’s management concluded that, as of December 31, 2005, it did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting based on those criteria. Should we, or our independent registered public accounting firm, determine in future fiscal periods that there are material weaknesses in our consolidated internal controls over financial reporting (including Solexa), the reliability of our financial reports may be impacted, and our results of operations or financial condition may be harmed and the price of our common stock may decline. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate. This fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is subject to fluctuations due to the timing of sales of high-value products and services projects, the impact of seasonal spending patterns, the timing and size of research projects our customers perform, changes in overall spending levels in the life sciences industry, and other unpredictable factors that may affect customer ordering patterns. Given the difficulty in predicting the timing and magnitude of sales for our products and services, we may experience quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenue resulting in the potential for a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. A large portion of our expenses are relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase significantly. Accordingly, if revenue does not grow as anticipated, we may not be able to maintain annual profitability. Any significant delays in the commercial launch of our products, unfavorable sales trends in our existing product lines, or impacts from the other factors mentioned above, could adversely affect our future revenue growth or cause a sequential decline in quarterly revenue. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarterly comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. If our operating results fluctuate or do not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. We have a limited history of commercial sales of systems and consumable products, and our success depends on our ability to develop commercially successful products and on market acceptance of our new and relatively unproven technologies. We may not possess all of the resources, capability and intellectual property necessary to develop and commercialize all the products or services that may result from our technologies. Sales of our genotyping and gene expression systems only began in 2003, and some of our other technologies are in the early stages of commercialization or are still in development. You should evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting similarly situated companies developing tools for the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. We must conduct a substantial amount of additional research and development before some of our products will be ready for sale, and we currently have fewer resources available for research and development activities than some of our competitors. We may not be able to develop or launch new products in a timely manner, or at all, or they may not meet customer requirements or be of sufficient quality or at a price that enables us to compete effectively in the marketplace. Problems frequently encountered in connection with the development or early commercialization of products and services using new and relatively unproven technologies might limit our ability to develop and successfully commercialize these products and services. In addition, we may need to enter into agreements to obtain intellectual property necessary to commercialize some of our products or services, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. 22 Table of Contents Historically, life sciences and pharmaceutical companies have analyzed genetic variation and biological function using a variety of technologies. In order to be successful, our products must meet the commercial requirements of the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries as tools for the large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to demonstrate to potential customers the benefits and cost effectiveness of our products and services relative to others available in the market; • the extent and effectiveness of our efforts to market, sell and distribute our products; • our ability to manufacture products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and reliability and at an acceptable cost; • the willingness and ability of customers to adopt new technologies requiring capital investments; and • the extended time lag and sales expenses involved between the time a potential customer is contacted on a possible sale of our products and services and the time the sale is consummated or rejected by the customer. Our sales, marketing and technical support organization may limit our ability to sell our products. We currently have fewer resources available for sales and marketing and technical support services compared to some of our primary competitors. In order to effectively commercialize our sequencing, genotyping and gene expression systems and other products to follow, we will need to expand our sales, marketing and technical support staff both domestically and internationally. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining either a direct sales force or distribution arrangements to market our products and services. In addition, we compete primarily with much larger companies that have larger sales and distribution staffs and a significant installed base of products in place, and the efforts from a limited sales and marketing force may not be sufficient to build the market acceptance of our products required to support continued growth of our business. We have only recently achieved annual operating profitability. Prior to 2006, we had incurred net losses each year since our inception. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $104.6 million. Our ability to sustain annual profitability will depend, in part, on the rate of growth, if any, of our revenue and on the level of our expenses. SFAS No. 123R is also likely to adversely affect our future profitability. We expect to continue incurring significant expenses related to research and development, sales and marketing efforts to commercialize our products and the continued development of our manufacturing capabilities. In addition, we expect that our research and development and selling and marketing expenses will increase at a higher rate in the future as a result of the development and launch of new products. Even if we maintain profitability, we may not be able to increase profitability on a quarterly basis. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth. These difficulties could impair our profitability. We have experienced, and we may expect to continue to experience rapid and substantial growth in order to achieve our operating plans, which will place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our profitability could suffer. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to expend funds to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, then we will not be able to make available the products required to successfully commercialize our technology. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. 23 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate may vary significantly. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by various internal and external factors. These factors, include but are not limited to, earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof; changes in tax rates, future levels of research and development spending, and changes in overall levels of pretax earnings. Any new interpretative guidance relating to accounting for uncertain tax positions could adversely affect our tax provision. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, we may be unable to achieve our goals. We are highly dependent on our management and scientific personnel, including Jay Flatley, our president and chief executive officer, John Stuelpnagel, our senior vice president and chief operating officer and John West, our senior vice president and general manager of DNA sequencing . The loss of their services could adversely impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We will need to hire additional qualified personnel with expertise in molecular biology, chemistry, biological information processing, sales, marketing and technical support. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, universities and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. Competition for these individuals, particularly in the San Diego area, is intense, and the turnover rate can be high. Failure to attract and retain management and scientific personnel would prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or technologies. Our planned activities will require additional expertise in specific industries and areas applicable to the products developed through our technologies, including the life sciences and healthcare industries. Thus, we will need to add new personnel, including management, and develop the expertise of existing management. The failure to do so could impair the growth of our business. A significant portion of our sales are to international customers. Approximately 44% and 38% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2006 and January 1, 2006, respectively, was derived from shipments to customers outside the United States. We intend to continue to expand our international presence and export sales to international customers and we expect the total amount of non-U.S. sales to continue to grow. Export sales entail a variety of risks, including: • currency exchange fluctuations; • unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we import our products; • difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays; and • significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In addition, sales to international customers typically result in longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection. We are also subject to general geopolitical risks, such as political, social and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 24 Table of Contents Our success depends upon the continued emergence and growth of markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function. We design our products primarily for applications in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries. The usefulness of our technology depends in part upon the availability of genetic data and its usefulness in identifying or treating disease. We are initially focusing on markets for analysis of genetic variation and biological function, namely SNP genotyping and gene expression profiling. Both of these markets are new and emerging, and they may not develop as quickly as we anticipate, or reach their full potential. Other methods of analysis of genetic variation and biological function may emerge and displace the methods we are developing. Also, researchers may not seek or be able to convert raw genetic data into medically valuable information through the analysis of genetic variation and biological function. In addition, factors affecting research and development spending generally, such as changes in the regulatory environment affecting life sciences and pharmaceutical companies, and changes in government programs that provide funding to companies and research institutions, could harm our business. If useful genetic data is not available or if our target markets do not develop in a timely manner, demand for our products may grow at a slower rate than we expect, and we may not be able to achieve or sustain annual profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 