ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a history of net losses and may never become profitable. We commenced operations in 1996 and are still developing our product candidates. We have not commercialized any products, and we have incurred significant losses to date. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $160.3 million. To date, our revenues have been primarily from partnering arrangements and government grant awards. Our expenses have consisted principally of costs incurred in research and development and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including a net loss of approximately $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect our expenses to increase and to continue to incur operating losses for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts for our product candidates and research programs. The amount of time necessary to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates is long and uncertain, and successful commercialization may not occur at all. As a result, we may never become profitable. We expect that additional financing will be required, and an inability to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations on acceptable terms or at all would threaten the continued operation of our business. We expect that additional financing will be required to fund operations. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on favorable terms. We have consumed 17 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES substantial amounts of cash to date and expect to incur significant operating expenditures over the next several years as we continue to advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, additional collaboration or licensing arrangements, government grant awards or any combination of the foregoing or other arrangements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies, product candidates or marketing territories. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research or development programs; lose rights under existing licenses; or relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. Insufficient funds may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations.” We believe that our existing cash and investment securities, anticipated cash flow from our existing collaboration with Roche and net proceeds from our offering of common stock in February 2007 will be sufficient to support our current operating plan into the first half of 2009, although we may choose to obtain additional financing from time to time. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Our future capital uses and requirements depend on numerous forward-looking factors, including the following: • our ability to establish any new partnering arrangements, our rights and obligations under any new partnering arrangements and our ability to generate revenues under any new partnering arrangements; • the extent to which clinical and other development activities are funded or conducted by our current partners, Roche, Pfizer and the NCI; • our ability to sell shares of our common stock under our committed equity financing facility, or CEFF, with Kingsbridge Capital Limited, or Kingsbridge; • the progress, success and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates; • any acceleration or expansion of our clinical development plans; • our ability to maintain or extend our existing partnering arrangements with Roche, Pfizer and the NCI; • the progress, number and costs of our research programs; • the costs and timing of obtaining, enforcing and defending patent and other intellectual property rights; • any need to obtain licenses to additional patents or other intellectual property in order to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our product candidates; • any need to expand our manufacturing capabilities; and • expenses associated with any possible future litigation. Our committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge and may result in dilution to our stockholders. In July 2006, we entered into a CEFF with Kingsbridge. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time through September 25, 2009, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $50.0 million, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will not be obligated to 18 Table of Contents purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock; the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; and the effectiveness of a registration statement registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the CEFF. In addition, among other termination rights, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF by providing written notice to us within 10 trading days after it obtains actual knowledge that an event has occurred resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if Kingsbridge terminates the CEFF, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the resale registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under the resale registration statement for a certain period of time. If we deliver a blackout notice in certain circumstances, or if the resale registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by the agreement, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares purchased by Kingsbridge in the most recent draw down and held by Kingsbridge immediately prior to the blackout period and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. In October 2006, we received $3.0 million in gross proceeds from the sale of 770,351 shares of common stock to Kingsbridge pursuant to the CEFF. Should we sell additional shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our share price. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees and consultants, we may not be able to successfully operate our business. Retaining our current management and other employees and recruiting qualified scientific personnel to perform future research, manufacturing and development work will be critical to our success. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and could leave our employment at will. In March 2006, we implemented a corporate restructuring that resulted in a workforce reduction. We may have difficulty attracting required personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce and expense reductions, or otherwise. Competition is intense among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists and other personnel, and we may not be able to retain or recruit sufficient skilled personnel on acceptable terms to allow us to pursue collaborations and develop our product candidates and research programs, which would likely have an adverse effect on our business. If our current partnering arrangements are unsuccessful or if conflicts develop with our partners, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated, our revenues could significantly decrease and our operations may be adversely affected. We have a collaboration agreement with Roche in the field of epothilones and a license agreement with Pfizer for our motilin agonist program. We also have collaborations with, or have licenses to technology and compounds from, several research groups, including Sloan-Kettering in the field of epothilones, the NCI in the field of geldanamycin 19 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES analogs and Stanford University in the field of polyketide technology. The agreements permit our collaborators or licensors to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances. Our collaboration agreements with the NCI are currently set to expire in October 2007. We may not be able to maintain or extend our collaborations or license agreements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not maintain, extend or replace our collaboration with Roche or our license to Pfizer, the research and development efforts for our product candidates could be delayed, our revenues would significantly decrease and our operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our research collaborations, including our collaboration agreements with the NCI, or if our in-license agreements are terminated, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated or we could lose our rights to use the licensed technology and compounds. We control neither the amount nor timing of resources that our partners devote to our programs or potential products, nor the scope, content and timing of the efforts that they conduct or permit. As a result, we do not know if our partners will dedicate sufficient resources or if the development or commercialization efforts by our corporate partners will be successful. We also do not know if the development or commercialization efforts by our partners will be the same as those we would choose to devote if we solely controlled the development and commercialization of our programs and product candidates. In particular, in our collaboration with Roche, we do not control the amount and timing of resources that Roche devotes to the epothilone program, and we do not control the scope, content and timing of the preclinical studies, clinical trials and other development efforts that Roche conducts or permits under the program, including for KOS-1584. In our collaboration with the NCI, we do not control the selection, conduct, timing and resources provided to clinical trials of tanespimycin or alvespimycin sponsored by the NCI. For these reasons, we may choose to undertake product development efforts that are within the scope of our collaborations at our own expense. Under our license agreement with Pfizer, Pfizer controls all development, regulatory and commercial activities related to our motilin agonist program. We also do not know whether our current partners or future partners, if any, might pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by the partnering arrangements with us. In addition, business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy may adversely affect its willingness or ability to continue the partnering arrangement with us. Failure by our partners to develop or commercialize a compound or product for which they have rights from us could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, if Roche does not successfully develop and commercialize a product from our epothilone program, we may not receive any future milestone payments and will not receive any royalties under our collaboration with Roche. If our partners fail to conduct research, development or commercialization activities successfully and in a timely manner or if they or our licensors breach or terminate their agreements with us, the development or commercialization of the affected product candidates, technology or research program could be delayed or terminated. If any of our existing partnering arrangements are terminated, we may be required to seek new partners or to undertake product development and commercialization at our own expense. This may limit the number of product candidates we will be able to develop and commercialize, significantly increase our capital requirements and reduce the likelihood of successful product introduction. Disputes might also arise with partners or licensors concerning rights to particular compounds or technologies. If we are unable to resolve these disputes in our favor, we could lose our rights to use those compounds or technologies. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to enter into new partnering arrangements in the future, our business and operations would be negatively impacted. Our strategy depends upon the formation and sustainability of multiple collaborative arrangements and license agreements with third parties. We expect to rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for license and technology rights. Although we have established collaborative arrangements and various license agreements, we do not know if we will be able to establish additional arrangements on favorable terms, or whether current or any future partnering arrangements will ultimately be successful. There have been, and may continue to be, a significant number of business combinations among pharmaceutical companies that have resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduced number of potential future partners, which may limit our ability to find partners who will work with us in developing and commercializing our product candidates. If we do not enter into new collaborative agreements, in particular, a collaborative arrangement for the further development of our Hsp90 inhibitor program, we may be required to curtail, suspend, delay or terminate research and development programs, including planned clinical trials for our product candidates, and therefore our ability to generate revenues from these programs will be adversely affected. Our ability to start new research and development programs may also be materially harmed. Our potential products are in development, and substantial additional effort and expense will be necessary for further development. Our product candidates are in various stages of research and development. We may not be able to develop products that prove to be safe and effective, meet applicable regulatory standards, are capable of being manufactured at reasonable costs or can be marketed successfully. All of the potential products that we are currently developing will require significant development and investment, including extensive clinical testing, before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. For example, we expect to incur significant expenses in connection with our TIME clinical trial program for tanespimycin in combination with Velcade for multiple myeloma. These expenses will be even higher to the extent we are required to pay for patients’ medical or other expenses, including, for example, the cost of Velcade for these studies. Our products must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA and international regulatory authorities for commercial use. We will need to conduct significant additional research and clinical trials before we can determine if our products are sufficiently safe and effective to file with the FDA and other regulatory agencies for product approval. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming, and therefore, significant amounts of money will need to be spent testing our products. In addition, significant time and investment will be required to try to develop manufacturing processes for our products so that they are economical to manufacture on a commercial scale and satisfactory to the FDA and other governmental authorities. The progress and results of our animal and human testing are highly uncertain. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with clinical data that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products before they can be approved for commercial sale. As a result, commercialization of our product candidates depends upon successful completion of preclinical and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. It may take us a number of years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. For example, in October 2005, we discontinued a Phase 2 clinical study of our first-generation epothilone, KOS-862, in hormone-refractory prostate cancer because the study did not meet the primary objective of tumor marker response in the first stage of a two stage clinical trial, and we previously discontinued clinical studies of KOS-862 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer and colorectal cancer. We could experience similar failures in other current or future clinical testing of our product candidates. 21 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of trials do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, including Kosan, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Also, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent further testing or regulatory approval. We do not know whether clinical trials of our product candidates will begin on time or whether any of our clinical trials will be completed on schedule, or at all. We may plan and initiate clinical trials before final data from earlier studies have been collected and analyzed because it takes a significant amount of time and effort to plan and initiate clinical trials and because of the length of time it takes to successfully develop a product candidate. Consequently, we may need to modify, suspend, cancel or terminate clinical trials based on final results from earlier studies. We also do not know whether clinical trials will indicate that an earlier-stage compound or formulation will be more appropriate for clinical and commercial development than a compound or formulation that is at a later stage of clinical development, and therefore result in extended timelines as well as increased development costs. For example, Roche and we decided in February 2007 to cease development of KOS-862 in favor of further development of our second-generation epothilone product candidate, KOS-1584. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be suspended, terminated or repeated. Certain of the clinical trials of our product candidates are or may in the future be designed to include two stages, with the decision whether to proceed to the second stage dependent on results obtained in the first stage. Failure to achieve predetermined response rates as defined in the protocol may result in the decision not to proceed into the second stage of the trial. We have multiple product candidates in human clinical trials for the treatment of cancer. Anticancer drugs frequently have a narrow therapeutic window between efficacy and toxicity. If unacceptable toxicity is observed in a clinical trial, the trial may be terminated at an early stage. For example, in June 2004, we discontinued a Phase 2 clinical study of KOS-862 in colorectal cancer due to unanticipated cumulative drug toxicities in patients who had previously been treated with the cancer treatment oxaliplatin. We also observed a higher incidence of adverse events resulting in patient withdrawal in our Phase 2 clinical study of KOS-862 in hormone-refractory prostate cancer than in our Phase 2 non-small cell lung cancer trial. We cannot predict whether any clinical trials of our product candidates will demonstrate toxicity issues or adverse events resulting in a significant patient withdrawal. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time if we, our collaborators, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities believe the patients participating in our studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or that study protocols or patient informed consents should be amended to reflect additional health risks, additional testing procedures or other changes. For example, in September 2005, we temporarily suspended enrollment in our tanespimycin and alvespimycin clinical trials in connection with a request by the FDA to amend the protocols and patient informed consents for those trials. We provided amended protocols and informed consents for those clinical trials to the FDA in response to certain of its requested changes, and we resumed enrollment in the clinical trials. The FDA may require further changes to these protocols and informed consents, which may have a material adverse effect on the timing of, and our ability to conduct, the tanespimycin and alvespimycin clinical trials. Our ability to commence or timely complete clinical trials may be adversely affected by many factors, including: • ineffectiveness of the study compound, or perceptions by physicians that the compound is not effective for a particular indication; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compound for use in clinical trials; 22 Table of Contents • a failure to obtain approval from the FDA, other regulatory authorities or an investigational site’s institutional review board to conduct a clinical trial; • inability to reach agreement with a sufficient number of investigational sites to conduct a study; • the number of patients required, slower than expected rate of patient recruitment or inability to recruit a sufficient number of patients; • the occurrence of adverse medical events, including death, during a clinical trial, even if caused by the advanced status of patients’ disease or medical problems that are not related to our product candidates; • inconclusive or negative results from a clinical trial; • competing clinical trials in the same or similar indication; • third-party clinical investigators failing to perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with a clinical trial protocol, and other third-party organizations not performing data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; and • a decision by the FDA or other governmental authorities to require suspension or modification of a clinical trial. Our product development costs will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals, if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned or if our clinical trials include more expensive testing or other procedures than planned. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. If any clinical trials of our product candidates are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development, manufacture and commercialization are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States, and by comparable authorities in other countries. Our products may not be commercialized unless and until our partners or we obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or foreign governmental authorities to do so. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, novelty, safety and efficacy of the product candidates involved. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and, although our personnel have experience from working at other companies, we as a company have no experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA or other foreign regulatory approvals to commercialize our products in a timely manner, if at all. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application for regulatory approval. Furthermore, the approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval varies among countries and can involve additional testing beyond that required by the FDA. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The FDA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical 23 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES or other studies or modifications to the manufacturing processes or facilities or quality control procedures for our product candidates. For example, we plan to commence during 2007 late-stage clinical trials of tanespimycin, and, if the results are favorable, we believe these clinical trials will support the filing of an NDA with the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma. However, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require additional data prior to accepting or approving an application for marketing approval for tanespimycin or other product candidates, which would result in delays in potential FDA or other regulatory authority approval and additional costs, either of which may be too significant to continue development of tanespimycin or other product candidates. This risk is further compounded by any changes during development of a product candidate, such as changes in manufacturing processes, formulations or dosing regimens. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or other regulatory authorities. For example, we currently conduct, and expect to conduct in the future, clinical trials for our product candidates in countries outside of the United States. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may reject data from clinical trials conducted in other countries if they are not conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory standards and procedures. We do not know whether clinical trials for our product candidates will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficient to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Our or our partners’ failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products under development will prevent receipt of FDA and foreign approvals and, ultimately, commercialization of our products. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our products, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, laboratory testing companies, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform this function. We also rely on Roche to conduct certain clinical trials for KOS-1584, Pfizer to conduct all clinical trials for our motilin agonist program, including KOS-2187, and the NCI to conduct certain clinical trials for tanespimycin and alvespimycin. We may rely on future partners to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. If any of these third parties do not successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, data generated from clinical trials may not be acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory authorities and our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA and the European Medicines Agency have granted orphan drug status to tanespimycin for the treatment of multiple myeloma and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and, in the United States, specific tax credits. Generally, if a company receives the first marketing approval for a product with an orphan drug designation in the clinical indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to ten years in Europe (reviewable after six years), and for a period of seven years in the United States. This exclusivity, however, could block the approval of tanespimycin for the treatment of multiple myeloma or chronic myelogenous leukemia in the United States or Europe if a competitor obtains approval before us of a product containing tanespimycin for these specific indications. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. 24 Table of Contents Even if any of our product candidates receives regulatory approval, we may still face significant development and regulatory difficulties. Even if the FDA or other regulatory authorities approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our partners or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If our partners, any of our product candidates that become approved for marketing by a regulatory authority or we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory authority may take various actions, including: • issuing warning letters; • imposing civil or criminal penalties; • suspending regulatory approval; • refusing to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our partners; • imposing restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seizing or detaining products or requiring a product recall. Any inability to protect our proprietary technologies could significantly harm our business and ability to successfully commercialize product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and product candidates in the United States and other countries and prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have. Intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and the laws of a particular country may afford less intellectual property protection than another country. Any patents that we or our partners own or license from third parties may not provide protection against competitors. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. However, our patent positions, as well as the patent positions of biotechnology companies and other third parties, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our patent applications will be allowed or any resulting patents will be valid and enforceable. Further, our patents or patent applications or those of our licensors could be placed into interference, and we may lose our rights in such patents or applications. Patents may be challenged, even by our partners, held unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. Certain of our current exclusive license agreements restrict, and any future exclusive license agreements may restrict, our rights under patents and patent applications to certain fields of use, and therefore, we may not have the ability to prevent competitors from developing and commercializing our product candidates or technologies in fields of use not covered by our exclusive license agreements. 25 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patents or pending patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ or partners’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ or partners’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors or collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. We apply for patents covering our technologies, product candidates, formulations and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. For example, tanespimycin, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in the most advanced product candidate in our Hsp90 inhibitor program, was originally disclosed in a now-expired third party patent. Consequently, others can develop products containing tanespimycin. We are aware of at least three other companies that have been developing product candidates containing or based on tanespimycin, and these companies have filed patent applications relating to their products in development. Other competitors may currently be developing, or may in the future develop, products containing or based on tanespimycin. In addition, we generally are unable to control the patent prosecution of technology that we license from others to the same degree as we would for our own technology. Further, some of our patents and patent applications for our motilide program have been assigned to Pfizer, and additional patents and patent applications may in the future be assigned to Pfizer or other current or future partners. We generally are unable to control the filing, prosecution and maintenance of patent rights that we assign to partners to the same degree as we would if we maintained ownership of them. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We have taken measures to protect our confidential information and trade secrets. However, these measures may not provide adequate protection. We seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators, consultants and others. Nevertheless, parties may breach these agreements or competitors may otherwise obtain or independently develop our trade secrets. Interference, opposition or similar proceedings relating to our patents and patent applications are costly, and an unfavorable outcome could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies and compounds filed by, and issued to, other parties. Others have filed patent applications or have been granted patents claiming inventions also claimed or licensed by us, and we may have to participate in an interference or other proceeding before a patent agency or court to determine priority of invention or which party was first to invent and, thus, has the right to a patent for these inventions. We believe one or more interferences may be declared between 26 Table of Contents patents and applications we own or have exclusively licensed and patents and applications owned by Abbott Laboratories or Biotica Technologies Ltd. relating to erythromycin polyketide synthase, or PKS, genes, methods for altering PKS genes, and erythromycin analogs. In April 2005, a hearing was held at the European Patent Office to address an opposition filed by Biotica to one of our exclusively licensed patents related to the recombinant production of polyketides. The European Patent Office maintained, or upheld, the patent, but with narrowing amendments. Both parties have filed an appeal. We believe an interference may also be declared between patents and applications we have exclusively licensed from two parties covering KOS-1584. A proceeding or a lawsuit involving an interference or opposition could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable, and if the outcome is unfavorable, we could be required to license the other party’s rights, on terms that may be unfavorable to us, or cease using the technology. An interference or opposition may also result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference or opposition. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the biotechnology area are often settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that a license would be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Companies and others developing products that could compete with our product candidates, such as Novartis AG in the area of potential epothilone products, may be particularly unwilling to grant us a license at any price. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses, we may not be able to manufacture or commercialize our product candidates, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend time and money and could deprive us of valuable rights needed to develop or commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. Other parties may currently or in the future possess intellectual property rights covering product candidates that we or our partners are developing or desire to develop; methods of treatment or administration involving our product candidates; formulations of our product candidates; and genes, gene fragments, cell lines, compounds and other technologies we use or may wish to use. Any infringement of patent rights or violation of other proprietary rights may require us to obtain a license from another party, forego product development or commercialization or face lawsuits or other claims. The biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We are aware of patents and published patent applications that, if valid, and if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring the rights to these patents, may block our ability to commercialize products based on the product candidates that we are developing or pursue our PKS gene manipulation and production technologies. We cannot be sure that other parties have not filed for or obtained relevant patents that could affect our ability to obtain patents or operate our business. Others, including our partners, may challenge our patent or other intellectual property rights or sue us for patent infringement, misappropriation of their intellectual property rights or breach of license agreements. We may be required to commence legal proceedings to resolve our patent or other intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any litigation or administrative proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in our patents being deemed invalid, unenforceable or revoked, require us to license disputed rights from others or to cease using the disputed technology. In addition, our involvement in any of these proceedings may cause us to incur substantial costs and result in diversion of management and technical personnel. 27 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Other parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that our products or the use of our technologies infringes these patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any claims that the use of our technologies infringes any patents, defending ourselves against any claim that we are employing any proprietary technology without authorization or enforcing our patents against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop producing certain products and using certain methods; • develop non-infringing products and methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from other parties. We may not be able to obtain licenses from other parties at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses at a reasonable cost or at all, we could encounter substantial delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods and products, which we may not be able to accomplish. Litigation or the failure to obtain licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or commercializing products and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. Manufacturing difficulties could delay or preclude commercialization of our products and substantially increase our expenses. We currently use contract manufacturers to make tanespimycin and alvespimycin active pharmaceutical ingredients and to formulate the final drug products. The NCI formulates the final drug product for alvespimycin and the formulation of tanespimycin being studied by it under our cooperative research and development agreements, or CRADAs. We maintain a limited inventory of tanespimycin and alvespimycin drug product at our facilities in Hayward, California, and we also maintain a limited inventory at the facilities of an outside contractor. The NCI is not obligated to maintain an inventory of either the active pharmaceutical ingredient or formulated drug product for alvespimycin or the formulation of tanespimycin being studied by the NCI under our CRADA. In our epothilone program, we rely on contract manufacturers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient for KOS-1584. Drug product for KOS-1584 is formulated at our facilities and by an outside contractor. We maintain limited inventories of formulated drug product for KOS-1584 at our facilities in Hayward, California and at the facilities of an outside contractor. If any of our or our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing or inventory facilities encounter delays, are destroyed or otherwise become unavailable to us, then the clinical development of our product candidates or submissions for their regulatory approval, and therefore commercialization, could be delayed or precluded. Adverse effects would be particularly acute if problems arise with our sole sourcing or inventory relationships. Alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all because manufacturing processes for our product candidates are complex and may be subject to a lengthy regulatory approval process. A number of factors could cause prolonged interruptions in the manufacturing and supply of our product candidates, including: • the failure of a supplier to provide raw materials or intermediates used for manufacture of our product candidates; • equipment malfunctions or failures; 28 Table of Contents • the failure to manufacture in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, FDA or other regulatory requirements; • the delay of product shipments due to U.S. custom regulations or third-party carriers used to transport our product candidates, and damage to our product candidates while they are in transit; • changes in FDA or other regulatory authority requirements or standards that require modifications to the manufacturing processes or facilities used in the production of our product candidates; • action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to suspend production of one or more of our product candidates; or • difficulties in scaling-up production of our product candidates for large clinical trials or commercial supply. While our manufacturing personnel have extensive experience from working at other companies, we as a company have no experience manufacturing products for commercial sale. We may encounter difficulties in scaling-up our manufacturing processes and equipment. We may not be able to achieve such scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, if at all. In addition, our facilities in Hayward, California are located within the San Francisco Bay Area, an area where earthquakes periodically occur. They are also located in a designated flood zone. Our access to any raw materials, intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients or formulated drug product for our product candidates sourced or inventoried through our facilities in Hayward, California may be subject to interruption, damage or loss in the event of an earthquake or flood. As discussed above, we rely upon outside contractors to manufacture and supply to us raw materials, intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients and formulated drug product for our product candidates. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates and their components may adversely affect our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates in a timely manner and may adversely affect any future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop on a timely and competitive basis. Dependence on contract manufacturers involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside of our control, including: • failure of a contract manufacturer to manufacture products to our specifications or to deliver products in the quantities, timeframe or manner that we require; • a decision by the FDA or other regulatory authorities not to approve our use of a particular contract manufacturer to supply our products; • intellectual property rights to any improvements in a manufacturing process or new manufacturing processes being owned by or shared with a contract manufacturer; • termination of an agreement with a contract manufacturer or increased prices charged by a contract manufacturer; or • a contract manufacturer declaring bankruptcy or otherwise going out of business. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our products and could result in significantly increased costs. In addition, our future contract manufacturers may not be in the United States, and we currently utilize contract manufacturers located outside the United States. Consequently, we may face additional manufacturing difficulties due to a number of potential factors, including importation and customs issues, political uncertainties and a potentially limited ability to enforce our contractual rights against parties not located within the United States. 29 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES We face intense competition from pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and academic groups. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies and products. These organizations may develop or currently possess technologies or products that are superior alternatives to ours. For example, companies with competing Hsp90 inhibitors include Biogen Idec Inc., which has initiated Phase 1 clinical trials in solid tumors with its intravenous formulation of tanespimycin and its oral synthetic Hsp90 inhibitor and has announced that it expects to initiate Phase 2 clinical trials in 2007; Infinity Pharmaceuticals, which has initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of its intravenous Hsp90 inhibitor in non-small cell lung cancer and a Phase 1 clinical trial in gastrointestinal stromal tumors and has an oral formulation in preclinical development in collaboration with MedImmune, Inc.; Abraxis BioScience, Inc., which has a nanoparticle formulation of tanespimycin in preclinical development; Vernalis plc, which has announced that it has selected an intravenous and an oral Hsp90 inhibitor preclinical development candidate in collaboration with Novartis AG and expects to initiate Phase 1 clinical trials in mid-2007; Serenex, Inc., which has announced plans to file an IND for its oral Hsp90 inhibitor in the first quarter of 2007; and Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp., which announced plans to file an IND for its Hsp90 inhibitor in the first half of 2007, as well as other companies reported to be pursuing Hsp90 inhibitors. Competing epothilones in clinical development include those being developed by BMS, which is reported to be in Phase 3 clinical trials; Novartis AG, which is reported to be in Phase 3 clinical trials; and Schering AG, which is reported to be in Phase 2 clinical trials. Gastrointestinal motility competitors include Chugai Pharmaceuticals, whose motilide agonist is reported to be in Phase 2 clinical trials. Thus, it is possible that, even if we are successful in developing any of our product candidates, one or more compounds of our competitors will be approved and marketed before our own. This could place our partners and us at a significant disadvantage and could prevent us from realizing significant commercial benefit from such compounds. Further, our competitors in the polyketide gene-engineering field may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products or may hold or develop patents or other proprietary rights that may prevent us from practicing our technologies and pursuing our programs. We also face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for partnering arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to additional technologies. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are superior to ours. Any products that we develop through our technologies will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets. Development of pharmaceutical products requires significant investment and resources. Many of the organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staffs, facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in discovery and developing drugs, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our technologies and products or that would render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • our ability to develop novel product candidates with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure and protect intellectual property rights based on our innovations; • the efficacy and safety of our product candidates; • the speed at which we and our partners develop our product candidates; • our and our partners’ ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; 30 Table of Contents • our and our partners’ ability to obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates and the timing and scope of any regulatory approvals; • our and our partners’ ability to manufacture commercial quantities and sell any product candidates that are approved for marketing; • acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers; and • the development of effective pricing and reimbursement strategies. If we face product liability claims, these claims will divert our management’s time and we will incur litigation costs, and if we are held liable, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially harmed. We face an inherent business risk of liability claims in the event that the use of our potential products in clinical trials or otherwise, or any other products manufactured in our facility, results in personal injury or death. Even though we have obtained product liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation, because litigation related to these claims would strain our financial resources in addition to consuming the time and attention of our management. If we are sued for any injuries caused by our products or products manufactured at our facility, our liability could exceed our total assets. We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Some of these materials may be novel, including bacteria with novel properties and bacteria that produce biologically active compounds. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, shipment and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, we could be sued for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties or our partners of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or commercialization efforts. In the event we do not comply with any of these laws or regulations, we may incur significant fines, our governmental licenses or permits may be revoked or we may face additional penalties, any of which could harm our business. We have a stockholders rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our corporate charter documents that may result in outcomes with which you do not agree. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future may adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for third parties to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors and prevents our stockholders from acting by written consent. These provisions and other provisions of our bylaws and of 31 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Delaware law applicable to us could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. This could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. This is because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team. We have adopted a rights agreement under which all stockholders have the right to purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock at an exercise price of $70.00 per one one-hundredth of a share, if a person acquires more than 20% of our common stock. The rights plan could make it more difficult for a person to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The rights plan could also reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without the rights plan. In addition, the existence of the rights plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the rights plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. During the period from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, our common stock traded between $2.88 and $6.19 on the Nasdaq Global Market. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • delay or failure in initiating, conducting, completing or analyzing clinical trials or unsatisfactory design of or data from these trials by our collaborators or us; • announcements of data from clinical trials, new partnering arrangements or other developments that do not meet the expectations of analysts, investors or other third parties; • developments in clinical trials for potentially competitive product candidates; • changes in the United States or foreign health care systems or regulations; • regulatory approvals for competitive product candidates or delays or failures by our partners or us in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • announcements of technological developments in research by us or our competitors; • published reports by securities analysts; • announcements of expirations, terminations or amendments of collaborations, licenses or government research grants, or announcements that we have entered into new collaboration, licensing or similar arrangements; • departures of key personnel; • developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; • litigation or an unfavorable outcome in litigation; • sales of our common stock; • announcements of, and actual or anticipated fluctuations in, our financial results; and • economic and other external factors, disasters or crises. 32 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If this type of litigation were instituted against us, we would be faced with substantial costs and management’s attention and resources would be diverted, which could in turn seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our quarterly and annual results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, creating investor losses. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • expiration or termination of partnering arrangements, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our or our partners’ efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties under our partnering arrangements with Roche or Pfizer or any future collaboration or license agreements; • the progress of our product candidates in clinical trials, and therefore, the timing of expenses for those clinical trials; • the timing and willingness of partners to develop and commercialize our products; • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect our partners’ research and development expenditures; and • costs and expenses related to any litigation or administrative proceedings in which we may be involved. If our revenues decline or do not grow due to expiration, termination or amendment of current or future collaboration agreements or licenses, failure to obtain new contracts or other factors, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses correspondingly. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenues could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters or years may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price may decline. Changes in the accounting treatment of stock options will continue to adversely affect our results of operations. We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), or SFAS 123R, on January 1, 2006, under which we are required to record additional compensation expense related to stock options and other share-based payments in 2006 and beyond. This statement had no impact on our financial position; however, it negatively impacted and will continue to have a negative impact on our earnings and reported results of operations compared to the results we have reported under prior accounting standards on stock options and other share-based payments. 33 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, on an annual basis, our management is required to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to make its annual assessment are complex and require significant documentation and testing. While our internal controls over financial reporting were deemed effective by both our management and our independent auditors as of December 31, 2006, there may be changes in our systems, processes or operations that will affect the effectiveness of internal controls in the future. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Our future assessments of internal controls may continue to result in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, investor confidence and our stock price could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 