Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report should be considered in evaluating our prospects and future performance. The name Kosan Biosciences Incorporated, our logo and all other Kosan names are our trademarks. All other trademarks or brand names appearing in this Annual Report are the property of their respective holders. Overview We are a cancer therapeutics company focused on advancing two new classes of anticancer agents through clinical development: heat shock protein 90, or Hsp90, inhibitors and epothilones. Hsp90 inhibitors have a novel mechanism of action targeting multiple pathways involved in cancer cell growth and survival. Our Hsp90 inhibitor product candidates may have the potential to overcome resistance after relapse and to synergize the initial activity of existing cancer therapies. Our first and second generation Hsp90 inhibitor product candidates have demonstrated antitumor activity in multiple indications in early clinical trials. Our proprietary injectable suspension formulation of tanespimycin, or KOS-953, our first-generation Hsp90 inhibitor and most advanced product candidate, is in a Phase 3 clinical trial in combination with Velcade® (bortezomib) for multiple myeloma, as well as in a Phase 2 clinical trial in combination with Herceptin® (trastuzumab) for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Epothilones inhibit cell division with a mechanism of action similar to taxanes, one of the most successful classes of anti-tumor agents. KOS-1584 is our epothilone anticancer product candidate that is being evaluated in dose-escalating Phase 1 clinical trials in patients with solid tumors. We expect to initiate our Phase 2 clinical program with KOS-1584 in the first quarter 2008. 3 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Our epothilone program was partnered with Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc. and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. (collectively “Roche”) through a global development and commercialization agreement. Our agreement with Roche was terminated in its entirety effective in late February 2008. Following the termination of the agreement, the rights licensed to Roche reverted to us, and in connection with the termination, Roche provided us with certain license rights, data and other assistance related to the product candidates licensed to Roche under the agreement. Roche’s development funding commitments under the agreement continued until the termination date in late February 2008, after which Roche is obligated to reimburse us for certain costs of completing the KOS-1584 Phase 1 clinical trials. We also have a motilin receptor agonist program for the stimulation of gastrointestinal movement, or GI motility. In December 2006, we established a worldwide exclusive license agreement with Pfizer Inc. for our motilin agonist program, including KOS-2187 and related compounds. Pfizer is responsible for all development, regulatory and commercial activities related to the motilin agonist program. Pfizer is conducting Phase 1 clinical testing of KOS-2187 as a potential treatment for gastroesophageal reflux disease (“GERD”). We also have next-generation Hsp90 inhibitor, next-generation epothilone and nuclear export inhibitor programs for cancer that are undergoing preclinical evaluation. These programs are also based on the use of our technology to improve the structure of known polyketides and the efficiency of large-scale production. Our Strategy Our goal is to develop and commercialize innovative cancer therapeutics. Our strategy includes the following components: Focus on Advancing Later Stage Product Candidates. We are focused on advancing our lead product candidate, Hsp90 inhibitor tanespimycin, in multiple myeloma and in metastatic breast cancer, and our lead epothilone candidate, KOS-1584, in non-small cell lung cancer and potentially other indications. We have prioritized our development portfolio to focus resources on product candidates that we believe represent the highest therapeutic potential and commercial value for the company in the near-term. Disciplined Management of Our Financial Resources. We intend to focus our financial resources on advancing our clinical product candidates towards regulatory approval and commercialization. Establish and Leverage Existing Partnering Arrangements. We have a license agreement with Pfizer for the development and commercialization of our motilin agonist program. We plan to establish additional partnering arrangements with pharmaceutical companies and other research and development organizations to help us advance product candidates into or through clinical trials and to the market. Develop Cancer Therapeutic Products with First-In-Class or Best-In-Class Potential. We have developed a core expertise in the discovery and development of potential cancer therapeutics. We plan to continue to focus on cancer indications to best utilize our expertise and develop potential first-in-class or best-in-class therapies. Strategically Invest in Our Drug Discovery Efforts and Polyketide Technology Platform. We intend to continue internal research activities on polyketide biosynthesis and chemical synthesis with the goal of advancing high-quality product candidates into preclinical and clinical development. All of our programs are based on the development of polyketides. Polyketides are complex natural products produced by certain microorganisms. Numerous pharmaceutical products in many therapeutic areas have been derived from polyketides. We focus on polyketides because of our expertise in genetic manipulation, chemistry and production of polyketides. We use our technology to improve the structure of known polyketides with validated targets to make potential product candidates. We also improve the efficiency of large-scale production in order to more cost-effectively access promising compounds that cannot be obtained from nature in sufficient quantities to permit development and potential commercialization. 4 Table of Contents Product Pipeline The following chart indicates the most advanced stage of development for each of our product candidates. Oncology Hsp90 Inhibitors We are developing compounds that have been shown to cause the degradation of numerous proteins involved in the growth and survival of cancer cells. These compounds bind to and disrupt the function of Hsp90. Hsp90 is a molecular “chaperone” in cells that maintains the stability and function of “client proteins” that are important for cell proliferation, angiogenesis and metastasis of tumors. By preventing Hsp90 from protecting its client proteins, Hsp90 inhibitors cause the client proteins to degrade. By simultaneously depleting multiple proteins involved in the genesis and maintenance of cancer cells, Hsp90 inhibitors may serve as chemotherapeutic agents in a number of cancers. Moreover, studies suggest that Hsp90 inhibitors re-sensitize cancer cells to drugs to which they have become resistant. Hsp90 inhibitors may also enhance the initial activity of existing cancer therapies when used in combination. Hsp90 inhibitors, such as tanespimycin, can simultaneously target several of the key attributes of cancers and may have broad therapeutic activity against multiple types of cancers. Tanespimycin. Our proprietary injectable suspension formulation of tanespimycin, or KOS-953 (also known as 17-AAG), is in a Phase 3 clinical trial in combination with Velcade® (bortezomib) for multiple myeloma, as well as a Phase 2 clinical trial in combination with Herceptin® (trastuzumab) in HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Our Tanespimycin in Myeloma Evaluation, or TIME, clinical program includes TIME-1, a Phase 3 pivotal study of tanespimycin in combination with Velcade in first-relapse patients with multiple myeloma, which has been initiated. We also plan to conduct a second trial in multiple myeloma to support the pivotal TIME-1 trial with additional safety 5 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES and efficacy data. We plan to initiate the supporting trial in early 2009 and anticipate that the trial can be completed within the timeframe of TIME-1. The TIME program is utilizing our tanespimycin injectable suspension formulation that replaced the prior Cremophor-based formulation. In addition to multiple myeloma, we intend to advance tanespimycin in metastatic breast cancer. We anticipate presenting updated data with the injectable suspension formulation from our Phase 2 clinical trial of tanespimycin in combination with Herceptin in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in the first half of 2008. We expect to conduct enabling studies evaluating tanespimycin as monotherapy and in combination with other agents such as Taxol® (paclitaxel), Xeloda® (capecitabine®) and/or Herceptin® beginning in late 2008 or early 2009. Finally, our Phase 2 clinical trial of tanespimycin in metastatic melanoma was recently completed. As we did not observe sufficient clinical activity to warrant continued pursuit of this indication, we do not plan to develop tanespimycin in this indication. In 2004, tanespimycin received orphan drug designations from both the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for the treatment of two hematologic cancers, multiple myeloma and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Orphan drug designation makes a compound eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and, in the United States, specific tax credits. Generally, if a company receives the first marketing approval for a compound with an orphan drug designation in the clinical indication for which it has such designation, the compound is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same compound for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to 10 years in Europe (reviewable after six years), and for a period of seven years in the United States. Alvespimycin. Alvespimycin, or KOS-1022 (also known as 17-DMAG), is a highly-potent, water-soluble and orally-active Hsp90 inhibitor. We have evaluated both intravenous and oral formulations of alvespimycin in clinical trials. In February 2008, we terminated development of alvespimycin in order to focus our resources on the development of tanespimycin. Epothilones Epothilones are polyketides that inhibit cancer cells by a mechanism of action similar to a class of cytotoxic drugs known as taxanes, including paclitaxel, marketed as Taxol® by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and docetaxel, marketed as Taxotere® by Sanofi-Aventis. Epothilones may address a key limitation of the taxane class because they have shown activity against taxane-resistant human tumor cell lines in vitro and in animal models, as well as activity against taxane-sensitive human tumors cells in these models. Through late February 2008, our epothilone program was partnered with Roche through a September 2002 global development and commercialization agreement. KOS-1584. KOS-1584 is our lead epothilone product candidate being evaluated in dose-escalating Phase 1 clinical trials in patients with solid tumors. KOS-1584 has demonstrated antitumor activity and favorable tolerability in Phase 1 clinical trials in patients with solid tumors, including non-small cell lung, ovarian and pancreatic cancers. We intend to initiate a Phase 2 clinical trial of KOS-1584 in non-small cell lung cancer patients who have received one prior chemotherapy regimen in early 2008. We may conduct additional Phase 2 trials of KOS-1584. Kosan believes that KOS-1584 has best-in-class potential based on the compound’s activity and tolerability profile, which may contrast with currently marketed and other development-stage compounds in this class. Gastrointestinal Motility Motilin receptor agonists, called motilides, may be useful to treat diseases such as gastroparesis and other conditions in which GI motility is impaired. Preclinical data indicate that our compound, KOS-2187, is a potent motilin receptor agonist that has high oral bioavailability, is rapidly absorbed and significantly accelerates gastric emptying. In December 2006, we established a worldwide exclusive license agreement with Pfizer for our motilin agonist program, including KOS-2187 and related compounds. Pfizer is responsible for all development, regulatory and commercial activities 6 Table of Contents related to the motilin agonist program. Pfizer is conducting Phase 1 clinical testing of KOS-2187 as a potential treatment for GERD. Early-Stage Programs We also have next-generation Hsp90 inhibitor, next-generation epothilone and nuclear export inhibitor programs for cancer that are undergoing preclinical evaluation. These programs are also based on the use of our technology to improve the structure of known polyketides and the efficiency of large-scale production. Research and Development Expenses Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses, clinical trial-related services performed by clinical research organizations and research institutions and other outside service providers, licensing-related expenses, lab consumables and facility-related expenses. Our research and development expenses were approximately $47.3 million in 2007, $37.2 million in 2006 and $38.4 million in 2005. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property consists of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and know-how. Our ability to compete effectively depends in large part on our ability to obtain patents and trademarks for our technologies and products, maintain trade secrets, operate without infringing the rights of others and prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We will be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents, or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Accordingly, patents or other proprietary rights are an essential element of our business. As of December 31, 2007, we owned or exclusively licensed approximately 143 patents and 79 patent applications in the U.S. and approximately 80 foreign patents and 265 foreign patent applications. We pursue patent protection in countries where we believe it is commercially reasonable and advantageous to do so. Generally, U.S. and foreign patents are granted for a term of 20 years counting from the date of filing or the earliest claimed priority date, whichever is earlier. The aforementioned patents licensed or owned by Kosan have filing or earliest priority dates ranging from 1993 to the present. Our practice is to file patent applications to protect technology and compounds commercially important to our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology where patent protection is deemed inappropriate or unobtainable. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, collaborators and certain contractors. Collaborative Research, Development and License Agreements Roche In September 2002, we entered into a research and collaboration agreement with Roche. Our agreement with Roche was terminated in its entirety effective in late February 2008. Following the termination of the agreement, the rights licensed to Roche reverted to us, and in connection with the termination, Roche provided us with certain license rights, data and other assistance related to the product candidates licensed to Roche under the agreement. Roche’s development funding commitments under the agreement continued until the termination date in February 2008, after which Roche is obligated to reimburse us for certain costs of completing the KOS-1584 Phase 1 clinical trials. We recognized under this agreement approximately $12.0 million and $11.3 million of contract revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively, of which $2.0 million was related to a non-recurring milestone earned in 2006. Included in 2007 and 2006 revenue was the ratable portion of the $25.0 million up-front fee that was recognized through the estimated clinical development period. As of December 31, 2007, we had received approximately $88.0 million from our collaboration with Roche. 7 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Pfizer In December 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Pfizer under which we granted to Pfizer a worldwide exclusive license to our motilin agonist program. Under the terms of the agreement, Pfizer and we agreed to collaborate on filing of regulatory documents for the initiation of a Phase 1 clinical trial of our clinical candidate, KOS-2187. Pfizer will be responsible for all development, regulatory and commercial activities related to the motilin agonist program. We received an up-front fee of $12.5 million in December 2006 and are eligible to receive milestone payments for the successful development and commercialization of licensed compounds, including milestone payments for achieving certain sales amounts, as well as royalties on worldwide sales. We recognized revenue of approximately $10.7 million and $1.8 million in contract revenue in 2007 and 2006, respectively, which represents the ratable portion of the $12.5 million up-front fee that was recognized over the estimated period of the Company’s participation in the development of KOS-2187. Under the agreement, we agreed to assign to Pfizer all of our non-United States patent rights related to the technology licensed under the agreement, and Pfizer is primarily responsible for the prosecution and maintenance of these patent rights. We also agreed to assign to Pfizer all of our United States patent rights related to the technology licensed to Pfizer at a later stage of clinical development. Either party may terminate the agreement at any time for the other party’s uncured material breach of the agreement. Pfizer may terminate the agreement for convenience. Upon a termination by Pfizer for uncured material breach by us, the license rights shall become perpetual and irrevocable. In the event of a termination by Pfizer for convenience or by us for uncured material breach by Pfizer, the licensed rights would revert to us, Pfizer may be required to provide us with certain license rights, regulatory filings, data and technical transfer assistance. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will remain in effect for the life of the relevant patents or a specified number of years from the first commercial sale on a country-by-country basis. Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research Effective August 2000, we entered into a research and license agreement with the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, or Sloan-Kettering, relating to epothilones. Under the agreement, we worked collaboratively with Sloan-Kettering to develop epothilone compounds and production methods. In addition, Sloan-Kettering granted us an exclusive license for all further development and commercialization of compounds selected by us in accordance with the agreement. Under the agreement, we paid Sloan-Kettering an initial license fee and funding for the collaborative research program and we are required to pay annual maintenance fees and patent fees during the term of the agreement. In addition, we must pay Sloan-Kettering milestone payments if clinical development milestones are reached, royalty payments based on net sales of products covered by the collaboration, and a share of some sublicensing revenues. We may terminate the agreement in whole or on a product-by-product basis at any time. Either party may terminate the agreement upon the material breach of the agreement by the other party. Upon termination, all licenses granted by one party to the other revert to the granting party, and we are required to transfer to Sloan-Kettering any marketing authorizations, data and regulatory filings with respect to any compounds covered by the agreement. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement will remain in effect for the life of the relevant patents or a specified number of years from product launch. Effective September 2002, we received a consent from Sloan-Kettering to enter into a sublicense agreement with Roche and amended the research and license agreement with Sloan-Kettering to harmonize it with the collaboration agreement with Roche. 8 Table of Contents In 2003, we and Sloan-Kettering agreed that rights to certain epothilone analogs, including KOS-1584, are included in the exclusive license to us under the August 2000 research and license agreement. The agreement provided for an up-front payment to Sloan-Kettering and provides for additional payments to Sloan-Kettering upon the achievement of certain development milestones. Stanford University Effective March 1996, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with the Board of Trustees of the Leland Stanford Junior University, or Stanford University, for certain technology and related patent rights and materials for the recombinant production of novel polyketides. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a license issue fee to Stanford University, and we pay annual maintenance fees and patent fees, make milestone payments based on achievement of specified events with licensed products, pay royalties on net sales of products claimed in or originating from the licensed technology and pay a share of some sublicensing fees. In March 2000, we amended the agreement to provide us an exclusive option to acquire an exclusive or non-exclusive license to future patents or patent applications that are related to certain technology developed by one of our founders and directors, Chaitan S. Khosla, Ph.D., related to polyketides or their production, and chosen by Stanford University in its discretion. Under the March 2000 amendment, we paid an issue fee in preferred stock that was subsequently converted to common stock in our initial public offering, and we are obligated to pay an option fee and patent expenses for each patent or patent application included in our option rights. We are also obligated to pay Stanford University a license fee and an annual fee, as well as royalties on net sales and a share of some sublicensing fees under the original agreement, with respect to each patent or patent application for which we exercise our option. Effective September 2002, we received a consent from Stanford University to enter into a sublicense agreement with Roche and amended the research and license agreement to harmonize it with the collaboration agreement with Roche and effect certain other changes. NIH/NCI Under a November 2002 license agreement with the NIH, we obtained exclusive commercial rights under patent rights relating to the formulation of tanespimycin being studied by the NCI, alvespimycin and other geldanamycin analogs. Initially, our license was limited to specified medical fields of use, including the treatment of cancer, and the prevention of undesired cell growth or its deleterious effects, such as the prevention of restenosis and neurodegenerative diseases. In May 2005, we amended the license to include several additional fields of use. We paid the NIH an up-front fee and will owe annual minimum royalties, patent fees, royalties based on net sales of licensed products, milestone payments if clinical development milestones are reached and a portion of any sublicensing revenues. Our license could terminate if we are not diligent in developing licensed products or otherwise default in performing our material obligations under the agreement and fail to cure the deficiency. We may terminate the agreement on a country-by-country basis. The agreement contains standard NIH licensing terms. Unless the agreement is earlier terminated, our license will remain in effect for the life of the licensed patents. We developed our proprietary formulations of tanespimycin independently from the NIH. Oregon State University Under an April 2005 license agreement with Oregon State University, or OSU, we obtained an exclusive right to a patent and related intellectual property for synthesizing epothilones and epothilone analogs. Under the terms of the agreement, we paid a license issue fee to OSU, and we pay annual maintenance fees and patent fees, make milestone payments based on achievement of specified events with licensed products, pay royalties on net sales of products claimed in or originating from the licensed technology and pay a share of some sublicensing fees. Our license could terminate if we are not diligent in developing licensed products or otherwise default in performing our material obligations under the agreement and fail to cure the deficiency. Unless the agreement is earlier terminated, our license will remain in effect for the life of the licensed patents. In October 2007, we amended the license agreement 9 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES because we entered into a settlement agreement with OSU and Sloan-Kettering setting forth the agreed upon procedure to conduct an interference hearing. This amendment confirms, as well as makes certain adjustments to, our financial obligations to OSU under our license agreement regardless of which party ultimately prevails in the interference. Competition The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. Many companies, including biotechnology, chemical and pharmaceutical companies, are actively engaged in research and development of drugs for the treatment of the same diseases and conditions as our current and potential future product candidates. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial and other resources, larger research and development staffs and more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations than we do. In addition, some of them have considerable experience in preclinical testing, clinical trials and other regulatory approval procedures. There are also academic institutions, governmental agencies and other research organizations that are conducting research in areas in which we are working. They may also market commercial products, either on their own or through collaborative efforts. We expect to encounter significant competition for any of the pharmaceutical products we develop. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before their competitors may achieve a significant competitive advantage. We are aware that many other companies or institutions are pursuing the development of drugs and technologies directly targeted at applications for which we are developing our drug compounds. Companies with competing Hsp90 inhibitors include Biogen Idec Inc., which has initiated Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in solid tumors with its oral synthetic Hsp90 inhibitor; Infinity Pharmaceuticals, which has initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trials of its intravenous Hsp90 inhibitor in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and has an oral formulation in preclinical development in collaboration with MedImmune, Inc. (now a part of the AstraZeneca group of companies); Abraxis BioScience, Inc., which has an albumin-bound particle suspension formulation of 17-AAG in preclinical development; Vernalis plc, which has announced that it has selected an intravenous and an oral Hsp90 inhibitor preclinical development candidate in collaboration with Novartis AG and initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial in late 2007; Serenex, Inc., which has initiated Phase 1 clinical trials for its oral Hsp90 inhibitor in solid and hematological tumors and has agreed to be acquired by Pfizer; and Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp., which initiated Phase 1 clinical trials for its Hsp90 inhibitor in melanoma, as well as other companies reported to be pursuing Hsp90 inhibitors. Competing epothilones in clinical development include those being developed by Novartis AG, which is reported to be in Phase 3 clinical trials; and Schering AG, which is reported to be in Phase 2 clinical trials. In addition, IXEMPRA(TM) (ixabepilone), an epothilone developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, was approved by the FDA in October 2007 for use in breast cancer and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is reported to be in numerous post-marketing clinical trials of ixabepilone. Gastrointestinal motility competitors include Chugai Pharmaceuticals, whose motilide agonist is reported to be in Phase 2 clinical trials. Government Regulation The FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries impose substantial requirements upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. These agencies and other federal, state and local entities regulate research and development activities and the testing, manufacture, quality control, safety, effectiveness, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, distribution, post-marketing surveillance, advertising and promotion of our potential products. The process required by the FDA before our products may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following: • preclinical laboratory and animal tests; 10 Table of Contents • submission of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; • adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use; and • FDA approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, or Biologics License Application, or BLA. Satisfaction of FDA requirements or similar requirements of state, local and foreign regulatory agencies typically takes multiple years, and the actual time required may vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product or indication. In the United States, prior to commencing clinical trials, which are typically conducted in three sequential phases, we must submit an IND application to the FDA. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises concerns or questions about the conduct of the trial and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. Our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. Outside of the United States, mechanisms to commence clinical trials vary, but often require submission of supporting information and prior health authority approval. Further, an independent institutional review board or ethics committee must review and approve the plan for the clinical trial before it commences. The FDA (or foreign equivalent), an institutional review board, data safety monitoring board or the trial sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. In an effort to obtain marketing authorization in the United States, the results of product development, preclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA. The FDA may deny an NDA or BLA if the applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require additional clinical data or ultimately determine that the NDA or BLA does not satisfy the criteria for approval. After review of an NDA or BLA, the FDA can grant a normal marketing authorization, or full approval, or a marketing authorization under accelerated approval conditions. Under accelerated approval conditions, FDA may grant a marketing authorization for a new drug on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit. Accelerated approval under this condition will require the applicant to study the drug further to verify and describe its clinical benefit. Even if a product receives regulatory approval, the approval may be significantly limited to specific indications and dosages. Further, even after regulatory approval is obtained, later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Any products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including record-keeping requirements and reporting of adverse experiences with the drug. Drug manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with good manufacturing practices, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. 11 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES New federal legislation known as the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 was recently enacted. This legislation grants the FDA extensive new authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers, and require the adoption of risk management plans. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities. The new legislation, and the additional proposals if enacted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain approval of our product candidates, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or be subject to onerous post-approval requirements. Outside the United States, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. At present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the European Union, or EU, centralized registration procedures are available to companies seeking to market a product throughout the EU community. If the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented, a marketing authorization will be granted. These foreign regulatory approval processes involve all of the risks associated with FDA clearance and may be influenced by FDA actions with respect to a product candidate. We are also subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to such matters as the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research, development and manufacturing operations. We believe that we are in compliance with these laws and regulations in all material respects. Employees As of February 29, 2008, we had 91 full-time employees, 34 of whom held Ph.D. degrees and 73 of whom were engaged in research and development activities. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement, nor have we experienced any work stoppage. Corporate Information Kosan was incorporated under the laws of the state of California in January 1995 and commenced operations in 1996. In July 2000, we were reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware. We maintain a website at www.kosan.com; however, information found on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. Available Information We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make available on our website at www.kosan.com, free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Further, copies of these reports are located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings, at www.sec.gov. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a history of net losses and may never become profitable. We commenced operations in 1996 and are still developing our product candidates. We have not commercialized any products, and we have incurred net losses since our inception, including a net loss of approximately $28.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $189.0 million. To date, our revenues have been primarily from partnering arrangements and government grant awards. Our expenses have consisted principally of costs incurred in research and development and from general and administrative costs associated with our operations. We expect our expenses to increase and to continue to incur operating losses for at least the next several years as we continue our research and development efforts for our product candidates and research programs. The amount of time necessary to successfully commercialize any of our product candidates is long and uncertain, and successful commercialization may not occur at all. As a result, we may never become profitable. We expect that additional financing will be required, and an inability to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations on acceptable terms or at all would threaten the continued operation of our business. We expect that additional financing will be required to fund operations. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on favorable terms. We have consumed substantial amounts of cash to date and expect to incur significant operating expenditures over the next several years as we continue to advance our product candidates into and through clinical trials. We currently have no commitments from third parties for external funding of our product development efforts (other than limited clinical trial cost reimbursements from Roche) and absent any new partnering arrangements with third parties, we will be required to independently to fund any development and clinical trial activities that we may undertake. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research or development programs; lose rights under existing licenses; or relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. Insufficient funds may adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern, and an inability to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations on acceptable terms or at all would threaten the continued operation of our business. See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations.” We believe that our existing cash and investments will be sufficient to support our current operating plan into the first half of 2009. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Our future capital uses and requirements depend on numerous forward-looking factors, including the following: • our ability to establish new partnering arrangements, our rights and obligations under any new partnering arrangements and our ability to generate revenues under any new partnering arrangements; • the extent to which clinical and other development activities are funded or conducted by potential future partners, if any; • the progress, success and costs of preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates; • the costs of any drugs used in combination with our product candidates in our clinical trials; 13 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES • any acceleration or expansion of our clinical development plans; • our ability to maintain or extend our existing licensing arrangement with Pfizer; • the progress, number and costs of our research programs; • the costs and timing of obtaining, enforcing and defending patent and other intellectual property rights; • any need to obtain licenses to additional patents or other intellectual property in order to use, import, manufacture, market or sell our product candidates; • any need to expand our manufacturing capabilities; and • expenses associated with any possible future litigation. We may raise additional financing through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, partnering or licensing arrangements, government grant awards or any combination of the foregoing or other arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements, we would be required to relinquish some rights to our technologies, product candidates or marketing territories. If we fail to enter into new partnering or licensing arrangements in the future, our business and operations would be negatively impacted. Our strategy depends upon the formation and sustainability of multiple partnering arrangements and license agreements with third parties, particularly with respect to our Hsp90 inhibitor and epothilone programs. We expect to rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for license and technology rights. Although we have in the past established partnering arrangements and various license agreements, we do not know if we will be able to establish additional arrangements on favorable terms, or whether any such partnering arrangements will ultimately be successful. For example, our collaboration arrangement with Roche for our epothilone program was terminated by Roche, effective in late February 2008, and our cooperative research and development agreements with the NCI with respect to the clinical development of tanespimycin and alvespimycin have also expired. There have been, and may continue to be, a significant number of business combinations among pharmaceutical companies that have resulted, and may continue to result, in a reduced number of potential future partners, which may limit our ability to find partners who will work with us in developing and commercializing our product candidates. If we do not enter into new partnering arrangements, in particular, partnering arrangements for the further development of our Hsp90 inhibitor and epothilone programs, we will be required to undertake Hsp90 inhibitor and epothilone development and commercialization at our own expense, which would likely limit the number of product candidates that we will be able to develop and commercialize and significantly increase our capital requirements and may reduce the likelihood of successful product introduction. We may also be required to further curtail, suspend, delay or terminate research and development programs, including planned clinical trials for our product candidates, and therefore our ability to generate revenues from our epothilone, Hsp90 inhibitor or other programs will be adversely affected. Our ability to partner our Hsp90 inhibitor program may be difficult because the composition of matter of patent for 17-AAG is in the public domain. Our novel formulation patent applications combined with method of treatment patent applications may not be sufficient to attract partners. In addition, there may be new information that may weaken the strength of the issued patent for 17-DMAG or alvespimycin. Our ability to start new research and development programs may also be materially harmed if we are unable to establish new partnering arrangements with third parties. 14 Table of Contents If our current licensing arrangements or potential future partnering or licensing arrangements are unsuccessful or are terminated, or if conflicts develop with our current licensees or licensors, or our potential future partners, licensees or licensors, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated, our revenues could significantly decrease and our operations may be adversely affected. We have obtained licenses to technology and compounds from several research groups, including Sloan-Kettering and the Oregon State University in the field of epothilones, the NCI in the field of geldanamycin analogs and Stanford University in the field of polyketide technology. These agreements permit our licensors to terminate the agreements under certain circumstances. We also have a license agreement with Pfizer pursuant to which Pfizer is responsible for development, regulatory and commercial activities related to our motilin agonist program, which may be terminated by Pfizer at any time for its convenience. If we do not maintain, extend or replace our license agreement with Pfizer, we may be required to seek new third parties to undertake motilin agonist development and commercialization or to undertake such efforts at our own expense, the research and development efforts for our motilin agonist program could be delayed, our revenues could significantly decrease and our operations would be adversely affected. Furthermore, if our in-license agreements are terminated, or disputes arise that we are not able to resolve in our favor concerning our rights to particular compounds or technologies, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated, or we could lose our rights to use the licensed compounds or technologies. We control neither the amount nor timing of resources that Pfizer devotes to our motilin agonist program, nor the scope, content and timing of the preclinical studies, clinical trials and other development efforts that Pfizer conducts or permits, including for KOS-2187. Even if we are successful in establishing new partnering arrangements with respect to our epothilone program, our Hsp90 inhibitor program or our other programs, we may not be able to control the amount nor timing of resources that potential future partners devote to our programs. As a result, we do not know if Pfizer or any potential future partners will dedicate sufficient resources, or if the development or commercialization efforts by Pfizer or any potential future partners will be successful. We also do not know if the development or commercialization efforts by Pfizer or any potential future partners will be the same as those we would choose to devote if we solely controlled the development and commercialization of our programs and product candidates. In addition, we do not know whether Pfizer or potential future partners, if any, might pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors, as a means for developing treatments for the diseases targeted by the partnering or licensing arrangements with us. In addition, business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy may adversely affect its willingness or ability to continue the partnering or licensing arrangement with us. If Pfizer or any potential future partners fail to conduct research, development or commercialization activities with respect to compounds or products for which they have rights from us successfully and in a timely manner, or if they or our licensors breach or terminate their agreements with us, the development or commercialization of the affected product candidates, technology or research program could be delayed or terminated. For example, if Pfizer does not successfully develop and commercialize a product from our motilin agonist program, we may not receive any future milestone payments and will not receive any royalties under our license agreement with Pfizer. Our committed equity financing facility with Kingsbridge may not be available to us if we elect to make a draw down, may require us to make additional “blackout” or other payments to Kingsbridge and may result in dilution to our stockholders. In July 2006, we entered into a CEFF with Kingsbridge. The CEFF entitles us to sell and obligates Kingsbridge to purchase, from time to time through September 25, 2009, shares of our common stock for cash consideration up to an aggregate of $47.0 million as of December 31, 2007, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Kingsbridge will 15 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES not be obligated to purchase shares under the CEFF unless certain conditions are met, which include a minimum price for our common stock (which condition, for example, would not have been met as of March 5, 2008 and will not be met unless the volume weighted average market price of our common stock is at least $2.00), the accuracy of representations and warranties made to Kingsbridge; compliance with laws; and the effectiveness of a registration statement registering for resale the shares of common stock to be issued in connection with the CEFF. In addition, among other termination rights, Kingsbridge is permitted to terminate the CEFF by providing written notice to us within 10 trading days after it obtains actual knowledge that an event has occurred resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business, operations, properties or financial condition. If we are unable to access funds through the CEFF, or if Kingsbridge terminates the CEFF, we may be unable to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. We are entitled, in certain circumstances, to deliver a blackout notice to Kingsbridge to suspend the use of the resale registration statement and prohibit Kingsbridge from selling shares under the resale registration statement for a certain period of time. If we deliver a blackout notice in certain circumstances, or if the resale registration statement is not effective in circumstances not permitted by the agreement, then we must make a payment to Kingsbridge, or issue Kingsbridge additional shares in lieu of this payment, calculated on the basis of the number of shares purchased by Kingsbridge in the most recent draw down and held by Kingsbridge immediately prior to the blackout period and the change in the market price of our common stock during the period in which the use of the registration statement is suspended. If the trading price of our common stock declines during a suspension of the resale registration statement, the blackout or other payment could be significant. Should we sell shares to Kingsbridge under the CEFF, or issue shares in lieu of a blackout payment, it will have a dilutive effect on the holdings of our current stockholders and may result in downward pressure on the price of our common stock. If we draw down under the CEFF, we will issue shares to Kingsbridge at a discount of up to 10% from the volume weighted average price of our common stock. If we draw down amounts under the CEFF when our share price is decreasing, we will need to issue more shares to raise the same amount than if our stock price was higher. Issuances in the face of a declining share price will have an even greater dilutive effect than if our share price were stable or increasing and may further decrease our share price. If we are unable to recruit and retain skilled employees and consultants, we may not be able to successfully operate our business. Retaining our current management and other employees and recruiting qualified personnel to perform future research, manufacturing, development and other work will be critical to our success. None of our employees has employment commitments for any fixed period of time and could leave our employment at will. In the past, we have experienced turnover among our management, including the resignations in 2007 of our former General Counsel and former Chief Medical Officer, and the recently-announced resignation of our former Chief Executive Officer. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining required personnel as a result of our management turnover, our need for additional financing and the associated perceived risk of expense reductions, or for other reasons. Competition is intense among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions for experienced scientists and other personnel, and we may not be able to retain or recruit sufficient skilled personnel on acceptable terms to allow us to pursue potential partnering arrangements and develop our product candidates and research programs, which would likely have an adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Our only product candidates currently in clinical development are tanespimycin, our first-generation Hsp90 inhibitor product candidate, and KOS-1584, our epothilone anticancer product candidate. Substantial additional effort and expense will be necessary for further clinical development of tanespimycin and KOS-1584 and there can be assurance that our clinical trials will show that tanespimycin, KOS-1584 or our potential future product candidates are safe and effective treatments. Our only product candidates currently in clinical development are tanespimycin and KOS-1584. Our motilin agonist program has been exclusively licensed to Pfizer, and our remaining potential product candidates are in preclinical development. We may not be able to develop product candidates, including tanespimycin and KOS-1584, that prove to be safe and effective, meet applicable regulatory standards, are capable of being manufactured at reasonable costs or can be marketed successfully. Tanespimycin, KOS-1584 and our potential future product candidates will require significant development and investment, including extensive clinical testing, before we can submit any application for regulatory approval. For example, we expect to incur significant expenses in connection with our TIME registration program for tanespimycin in combination with Velcade for multiple myeloma. These expenses will be even higher to the extent we are required to pay for patients’ medical or other expenses, including, for example, the cost of Velcade or any other drugs used in combination with our product candidates for these studies. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA and international regulatory authorities for commercial use. We will need to conduct significant additional research and clinical trials before we can determine if our product candidates are sufficiently safe and effective to file with the FDA and other regulatory agencies for product approval. Clinical trials are expensive and time-consuming, and therefore, significant amounts of money will need to be spent testing our product candidates. Further, we may incur significant development costs for one or more of our product candidates and subsequently discontinue the development of any of these product candidates as a result of clinical trial failures or other factors. For example, we recently ceased the development of alvespimycin, our former second-generation Hsp90 inhibitor product candidate, as a result of a reprioritization of our development portfolio and we do not expect to receive any return on our investment in that product candidate. In addition, significant time and investment will be required to try to develop manufacturing processes for our products so that they are economical to manufacture on a commercial scale and satisfactory to the FDA and other governmental authorities. The progress and results of our preclinical and clinical testing are highly uncertain. We must provide the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities with clinical data that demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates before they can be approved for commercial sale. As a result, commercialization of our product candidates depends upon successful completion of preclinical and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. It may take us a number of years to complete our testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. We could experience failures in current or future clinical testing of our product candidates or determine to discontinue the development of any of our product candidates as a result of clinical trial failures or other factors. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of trials do not necessarily predict final results. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry, including Kosan, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after reporting promising results in earlier trials. Also, preclinical and clinical data can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent further testing or regulatory approval. 17 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES We do not know whether clinical trials of our product candidates will begin on time or whether any of our clinical trials will be completed on schedule, or at all. We may plan and initiate clinical trials before final data from earlier studies have been collected and analyzed because it takes a significant amount of time and effort to plan and initiate clinical trials and because of the length of time it takes to successfully develop a product candidate. Consequently, we may need to modify, suspend, cancel or terminate clinical trials based on results from earlier studies. We also do not know whether clinical trials will indicate that an earlier-stage compound or formulation will be more appropriate for clinical and commercial development than a compound or formulation that is at a later stage of clinical development, and therefore result in extended timelines as well as increased development costs. For example, Roche and we decided in February 2007 to cease development of KOS-862 in favor of further development of our second- generation epothilone product candidate, KOS-1584, and in May 2007, we decided to change the formulation for tanespimycin to our injectable suspension formulation, which delayed the commencement of clinical trials. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be suspended, terminated or repeated. Certain of the clinical trials of our product candidates are or may in the future be designed to include two stages, with the decision whether to proceed to the second stage dependent on results obtained in the first stage. Failure to achieve predetermined response rates as defined in the protocol may result in the decision not to proceed into the second stage of the clinical trial. Tanespimycin and KOS-1584 are in human clinical trials for the treatment of cancer. Anticancer drugs frequently have a narrow therapeutic window between efficacy and toxicity. If unacceptable toxicity is observed in a clinical trial, the trial may be terminated at an early stage. We cannot predict whether any clinical trials of our product candidates will demonstrate toxicity issues or adverse events resulting in significant patient withdrawals. Completion of clinical trials may take several years or more. The length of time generally varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. Our clinical trials may be suspended at any time if we, the FDA, or other regulatory authorities believe the patients participating in our studies are exposed to unacceptable health risks or that study protocols or patient informed consents should be amended to reflect additional health risks, additional testing procedures or other changes. Our ability to commence or timely complete clinical trials may be adversely affected by many factors, including: • ineffectiveness of the study compound, or perceptions by physicians that the compound is not effective for a particular indication; • inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of compound for use in clinical trials; • a failure to obtain approval from the FDA, other regulatory authorities or an investigational site’s institutional review board to conduct a clinical trial; • inability to reach agreement with a sufficient number of investigational sites to conduct a study; • inability to obtain product liability insurance, including clinical trial insurance, that meets the requirements of a location outside the U.S.; • the number of patients required, slower than expected rate of patient recruitment or inability to recruit a sufficient number of patients; • the occurrence of adverse medical events, including death, during a clinical trial, even if caused by the advanced status of patients’ disease or medical problems that are not related to our product candidates; • inconclusive or negative results from a clinical trial; • competing clinical trials in the same or similar indication; 18 Table of Contents • third-party clinical investigators failing to perform our clinical trials on our anticipated schedule or consistent with a clinical trial protocol, and other third-party organizations not performing data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; and • a decision by the FDA or other governmental authorities to require suspension or modification of a clinical trial. Our product development costs will increase if we have delays in testing or approvals, if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than planned or if our clinical trials include more expensive testing or other procedures than planned. If the delays are significant, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our products will be harmed, and our ability to become profitable will be adversely affected. If any clinical trials of our product candidates are not successful, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. If we are not able to obtain required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired. Our product candidates and the activities associated with their development, manufacture and commercialization are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States, and by comparable authorities in other countries. Our products may not be commercialized unless and until we or our partners, if any, obtain regulatory approval from the FDA or foreign governmental authorities to do so. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive, often takes many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity, novelty, safety and efficacy of the product candidates involved. We have not received regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates in any jurisdiction and, although our personnel have experience from working at other companies, we as a company have no experience in preparing and filing the applications necessary to gain regulatory approvals to commercialize our products. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA or other foreign regulatory approvals to commercialize our products in a timely manner, if at all. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application for regulatory approval. For example, new federal legislation known as the FDA Amendments Act of 2007 was recently enacted. This legislation grants the FDA extensive new authority to impose post-approval clinical study and clinical trial requirements, require safety-related changes to product labeling, review advertising aimed at consumers, and require the adoption of risk management plans. Other proposals have been made to impose additional requirements on drug approvals, further expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities. The new legislation, and the additional proposals if enacted, may make it more difficult or burdensome for us to obtain approval of our product candidates, any approvals we receive may be more restrictive or be subject to onerous post-approval requirements, Pfizer’s or our potential future partners’ ability to commercialize approved products successfully may be hindered and our business may be harmed as a result. Furthermore, the approval procedure and the time required to obtain approval varies among countries and can involve additional testing beyond that required by the FDA. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The FDA and other regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data is insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies or modifications to the manufacturing processes or facilities or quality control procedures for our product candidates. For example, we commenced a Phase 3 clinical trial of tanespimycin in combination with Velcade 19 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES in first-relapse patients with multiple myeloma and we plan to commence an additional supportive clinical trial in multiple myeloma in 2009, and, if the results are favorable, we believe that these clinical trials will support the filing of an NDA with the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma. However, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may require additional data prior to accepting or approving an application for marketing approval for tanespimycin or other product candidates, which would result in delays in potential FDA or other regulatory authority approval and additional costs, either of which may be too significant to continue development of tanespimycin or other product candidates. This risk is further compounded by any changes during development of a product candidate, such as changes in manufacturing processes, formulations or dosing regimens. Any clinical trial may fail to produce results satisfactory to the FDA or other regulatory authorities. For example, we currently conduct, and expect to conduct in the future, clinical trials for our product candidates in countries outside of the United States. The FDA or other regulatory authorities may reject data from clinical trials conducted in other countries if they are not conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory standards and procedures. We do not know whether clinical trials for our product candidates will demonstrate safety and efficacy sufficient to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products under development will prevent receipt of FDA and foreign approvals and, ultimately, commercialization of our products. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to independently conduct all clinical trials for our product candidates, and we rely on third parties such as Pfizer with respect to KOS-2187, contract research organizations, laboratory testing companies, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct, supervise or monitor our clinical trials. We have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. We are supervising our Phase 3 clinical trial for tanespimycin but rely on contract research organizations and testing laboratories to assist in the conduct of the trial. In 2007, we initiated a broad, multinational registration program for the treatment of multiple myeloma. The tanespimycin in myeloma evaluation, or TIME program, includes a Phase 3 clinical trial that we initiated in the first quarter of 2008 and an additional supportive clinical trial that we plan to commence in 2009. To date, we have not successfully conducted a clinical trial intended to form the basis of an NDA (or foreign equivalent thereto) filing. Additionally, the TIME program includes a multinational clinical trial. We have not conducted large clinical trials outside of North America. Consequently, we may not have the necessary capabilities to successfully execute and complete these planned clinical trials in a manner that supports approval of our product candidates for their target indications in a timely manner, or at all. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in our planned or current clinical trials, would prevent us from commercializing products, and thus seriously harm our business. We also rely on Pfizer to conduct all clinical trials for our motilin agonist program, including KOS-2187. We may rely on potential future partners, if any, to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. If any of these third parties do not successfully carry out their obligations or meet expected deadlines, clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, data generated from clinical trials may not be acceptable to the FDA or other regulatory authorities and our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. We may not be able to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for our product candidates. Some jurisdictions, including Europe and the United States, may designate drugs for relatively small patient populations as orphan drugs. The FDA and the European Medicines Agency have granted orphan drug status to tanespimycin for 20 Table of Contents the treatment of multiple myeloma and chronic myelogenous leukemia. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process, but does make the product eligible for orphan drug exclusivity and, in the United States, specific tax credits. Generally, if a company receives the first marketing approval for a product with an orphan drug designation in the clinical indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity means that another application to market the same drug for the same indication may not be approved, except in limited circumstances, for a period of up to ten years in Europe (reviewable after six years), and for a period of seven years in the United States. This exclusivity, however, could block the approval of tanespimycin for the treatment of multiple myeloma or chronic myelogenous leukemia in the United States or Europe if a competitor obtains approval before us of a product containing tanespimycin for these specific indications. Even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to maintain it. For example, if a competitive product is shown to be clinically superior to our product, any orphan drug exclusivity we have obtained will not block the approval of such competitive product. Even if any of our product candidates receives regulatory approval, we may still face significant development and regulatory difficulties. Even if the FDA or other regulatory authorities approves a product candidate, the approval may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use, labeling, advertising, promotion, marketing and/or production of such product, and may impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our partners, if any, or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we, Pfizer, potential future partners or any of our product candidates that become approved for marketing by a regulatory authority fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory authority may take various actions, including: • issuing warning letters; • imposing civil or criminal penalties; • suspending regulatory approval; • refusing to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our partners, if any; • imposing restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seizing or detaining products or requiring a product recall. Any inability to protect our proprietary technologies could significantly harm our business and ability to successfully commercialize product candidates. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of other intellectual property for our technologies and product candidates in the United States and other countries and prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to use our technologies and erode or negate any competitive advantage we may have. Intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and the laws of a particular country may afford less intellectual property protection than another country. 21 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Any patents that we or our potential future partners own or license from third parties may not provide protection against competitors. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and products are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. However, our patent positions, as well as the patent positions of biotechnology companies and other third parties, involve complex legal and factual questions, and, therefore, we cannot predict with certainty whether our patent applications will be allowed or any resulting patents will be valid and enforceable. Further, our patents or patent applications or those of our licensors could be placed into interference, and we may lose our rights in such patents or applications. Patents may be challenged, held unenforceable, invalidated or circumvented. Certain of our current exclusive license agreements restrict, and any future exclusive license agreements may restrict, our rights under patents and patent applications to certain fields of use, and therefore, we may not have the ability to prevent competitors from developing and commercializing our product candidates or technologies in fields of use not covered by our exclusive license agreements. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain, and we cannot ensure that: • we or our licensors were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our patents or pending patent applications; • we or our licensors were the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • any of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • any of our or our licensors’ patents will be valid or enforceable; • any patents issued to us or our licensors or collaborators will provide a basis for commercially viable products, will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; • we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our business. We apply for patents covering our technologies, product candidates, formulations and uses thereof, as we deem appropriate. However, we may fail to apply for patents on important technologies or products in a timely fashion or at all. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products and technologies. For example, tanespimycin was originally disclosed in a now-expired third party patent. Consequently, others can develop products containing tanespimycin. We are aware of at least three other companies that have been developing product candidates containing or based on tanespimycin, and these companies have filed patent applications relating to their products in development. Other competitors may currently be developing, or may in the future develop, products containing or based on tanespimycin. In addition, we generally are unable to control the patent prosecution of technology that we license from others to the same degree as we would for our own technology. Further, some of our patents and patent applications for our motilide program have been assigned to Pfizer, and additional patents and patent applications may in the future be assigned to Pfizer or potential future partners. We generally are unable to control the filing, prosecution and maintenance of patent rights that we assign to partners to the same degree as we would if we maintained ownership of them. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We have taken measures to protect our confidential information and trade secrets. However, these measures may not provide adequate protection. We seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, 22 Table of Contents collaborators, consultants and others. Nevertheless, parties may breach these agreements or competitors may otherwise obtain or independently develop our trade secrets. Interference, opposition or similar proceedings relating to our patents and patent applications are costly, and an unfavorable outcome could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies and compounds filed by, and issued to, other parties. Others have filed patent applications or have been granted patents claiming inventions also claimed or licensed by us, and we may have to participate in an interference or other proceeding before a patent agency or court to determine priority of invention or which party was first to invent and, thus, has the right to a patent for these inventions. We are the exclusive licensee to two patent rights claiming our epothilone product candidate KOS-1584. One is a granted patent and one is a patent application, owned by the Oregon State University and Sloan-Kettering, respectively. In June 2007, the US Patent and Trademark Office declared an interference between the patent and patent application. In October 2007, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Oregon State University and Sloan-Kettering setting forth the agreed upon procedure to conduct the interference. In addition, we entered into amendments to our agreements with the Oregon State University and Sloan-Kettering in connection with the settlement agreement. These amendments confirm, as well as make certain adjustments to, our financial obligations to each of the Oregon State University and Sloan-Kettering under our agreements with them, regardless of which party ultimately prevails in the interference. A proceeding or a lawsuit involving an interference or opposition could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable, and if the outcome is unfavorable, we could be required to license the other party’s rights, on terms that may be unfavorable to us, or cease using the technology. We could incur additional cost because we are licensed under both party’s patent rights. An interference or opposition may also result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference or opposition. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the biotechnology area are often settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that a license would be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Companies and others developing products that could compete with our product candidates, such as Novartis AG in the area of potential epothilone products, may be particularly unwilling to grant us a license at any price. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses, we may not be able to manufacture or commercialize our product candidates, which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend time and money and could deprive us of valuable rights needed to develop or commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. Other parties may currently or in the future possess intellectual property rights covering product candidates that we, Pfizer or potential future partners are developing or desire to develop; methods of treatment or administration involving our product candidates; formulations of our product candidates; and genes, gene fragments, cell lines, compounds and other technologies we use or may wish to use. Any infringement of patent rights or violation of other proprietary rights may require us to obtain a license from another party, forego product development or commercialization or face lawsuits or other claims. 23 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES The biotechnology industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. We are aware of patents and published patent applications that, if valid, and if we are unsuccessful in circumventing or acquiring the rights to these patents, may block our ability to commercialize products based on the product candidates that we are developing or pursue our PKS gene manipulation and production technologies. We cannot be sure that other parties have not filed for or obtained relevant patents that could affect our ability to obtain patents or operate our business. Others, including Pfizer or potential future partners, may challenge our patent or other intellectual property rights or sue us for patent infringement, misappropriation of their intellectual property rights or breach of license agreements. We may be required to commence legal proceedings to resolve our patent or other intellectual property rights. An adverse determination in any litigation or administrative proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liabilities, result in our patents being deemed invalid, unenforceable or revoked, require us to license disputed rights from others or to cease using the disputed technology. In addition, our involvement in any of these proceedings may cause us to incur substantial costs and result in diversion of management and technical personnel. Other parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that our products or the use of our technologies infringes these patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any claims that the use of our technologies infringes any patents, defending ourselves against any claim that we are employing any proprietary technology without authorization or enforcing our patents against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to develop, commercialize and sell products, and could result in the award of substantial damages against us. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop producing certain products and using certain methods; • develop non-infringing products and methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from other parties. We may not be able to obtain licenses from other parties at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses at a reasonable cost or at all, we could encounter substantial delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods and products, which we may not be able to accomplish. Litigation or the failure to obtain licenses could prevent us from manufacturing or commercializing products and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. Manufacturing and supply difficulties could delay or preclude commercialization of our products and substantially increase our expenses. We currently use contract manufacturers to make and supply us with the tanespimycin active pharmaceutical ingredient. We currently formulate the final drug product for tanespimycin injectable suspension formulation at our facilities and use a contract manufacturer to fill the final drug product vials. In the future, we expect to use a contract manufacturer to conduct the entire tanespimycin injectable suspension formulation and filling process. We maintain a limited inventory of tanespimycin drug product at our facilities in Hayward, California, and we also maintain a limited inventory at the facilities of an outside contractor. In our epothilone program, we rely on contract manufacturers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient for KOS-1584. Drug product for KOS-1584 is formulated by an outside contractor. We maintain limited inventories of formulated drug product for KOS-1584 at our facilities in Hayward, 24 Table of Contents California and at the facilities of outside contractors. For all of our projects, drug product is distributed to clinical sites primarily through outside contractors. If any of our or our contract manufacturers’ manufacturing or inventory facilities encounter delays, are destroyed or otherwise become unavailable to us, then the clinical development of our product candidates or submissions for their regulatory approval, and therefore commercialization, could be delayed or precluded. In addition, in our clinical trials for tanespimycin, tanespimycin is being evaluated in combination with another pharmaceutical compound. If any of the manufacturers of the drug compounds used in these combination therapy clinical trials are unable to continue to manufacture these drug compounds, or those manufacturers’ manufacturing or inventory facilities encounter delays, are destroyed or otherwise become unavailable, then the clinical development of tanespimycin, or submissions for its regulatory approval, and therefore commercialization, could be delayed or precluded. Adverse effects would be particularly acute if problems arise with our sole sourcing or inventory relationships. Alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all because manufacturing processes for our product candidates are complex and may be subject to a lengthy regulatory approval process. A number of factors could cause prolonged interruptions in the manufacturing and supply of our product candidates, including: • the failure of a supplier to provide raw materials or intermediates used for manufacture of our product candidates; • equipment malfunctions or failures; • the failure to manufacture in accordance with current good manufacturing practices, FDA or other regulatory requirements; • the delay of product shipments due to U.S. custom regulations or third-party carriers used to transport our product candidates, and damage to our product candidates while they are in transit; • changes in FDA or other regulatory authority requirements or standards that require modifications to the manufacturing processes or facilities used in the production of our product candidates; • action by the FDA or other regulatory authorities to suspend production of one or more of our product candidates; or • difficulties in scaling-up production of our product candidates for large clinical trials or commercial supply. While our manufacturing personnel have extensive experience from working at other companies, we as a company have no experience manufacturing products for commercial sale. We may encounter difficulties in scaling-up our manufacturing processes and equipment. We may not be able to achieve such scale-up in a timely manner or at a commercially reasonable cost, if at all. In addition, our facilities in Hayward, California are located within the San Francisco Bay Area, an area where earthquakes periodically occur. They are also located in a designated flood zone. Our access to any raw materials, intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients or formulated drug product for our product candidates sourced or inventoried through our facilities in Hayward, California may be subject to interruption, damage or loss in the event of an earthquake or flood. As discussed above, we rely upon outside contractors to manufacture and supply to us raw materials, intermediates, active pharmaceutical ingredients and formulated drug product for our product candidates. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates and their components may adversely affect our ability to continue clinical development of our product candidates in a timely manner and may adversely affect any future profit margins and our ability to commercialize any products that we may develop on a timely and competitive basis. 25 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES Dependence on contract manufacturers involves a number of additional risks, many of which are outside of our control, including: • failure of a contract manufacturer to manufacture products to our specifications or to deliver products in the quantities, timeframe or manner that we require; • a decision by the FDA or other regulatory authorities not to approve our use of a particular contract manufacturer to supply our products; • intellectual property rights to any improvements in a manufacturing process or new manufacturing processes being owned by or shared with a contract manufacturer; • termination of an agreement with a contract manufacturer or increased prices charged by a contract manufacturer; or • a contract manufacturer declaring bankruptcy or otherwise going out of business. Any of these factors could cause us to delay or suspend clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our products and could result in significantly increased costs. In addition, our future contract manufacturers may not be in the United States, and we currently utilize contract manufacturers located outside the United States. Consequently, we may face additional manufacturing difficulties due to a number of potential factors, including importation and customs issues, political uncertainties and a potentially limited ability to enforce our contractual rights against parties not located within the United States. We face intense competition from pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and academic groups. We face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies and products. These organizations may develop or currently possess technologies or products that are superior alternatives to ours. For example, companies with competing Hsp90 inhibitors include Biogen Idec Inc., which has initiated Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials in solid tumors with its oral synthetic Hsp90 inhibitor; Infinity Pharmaceuticals, which has initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trials of its intravenous Hsp90 inhibitor in gastrointestinal stromal tumors, and has an oral formulation in preclinical development in collaboration with MedImmune, Inc. (now a part of the AstraZeneca group of companies); Abraxis BioScience, Inc., which has an albumin-bound particle suspension formulation of 17-AAG in preclinical development; Vernalis plc, which has announced that it has selected an intravenous and an oral Hsp90 inhibitor preclinical development candidate in collaboration with Novartis AG and initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial in late 2007; Serenex, Inc., which has initiated Phase 1 clinical trials for its oral Hsp90 inhibitor in solid and hematological tumors and has agreed to be acquired by Pfizer; and Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp., which initiated Phase 1 clinical trials for its Hsp90 inhibitor in melanoma, as well as other companies reported to be pursuing Hsp90 inhibitors. Competing epothilones in clinical development include those being developed by Novartis AG, which is reported to be in Phase 3 clinical trials; and Schering AG, which is reported to be in Phase 2 clinical trials. In addition, IXEMPRA(TM) (ixabepilone), an epothilone developed by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, was approved by the FDA in October 2007 for use in breast cancer and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company is reported to be in numerous post-marketing clinical trials of ixabepilone. Gastrointestinal motility competitors include Chugai Pharmaceuticals, whose motilide agonist is reported to be in Phase 2 clinical trials. Thus, it is possible that, even if we are successful in developing any of our product candidates, one or more compounds of our competitors will be approved and marketed before our own. This could place us and our current or potential future partners at a significant disadvantage and could prevent us from realizing significant commercial benefit from such compounds. 26 Table of Contents Further, our competitors in the polyketide gene-engineering field may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products or may hold or develop patents or other proprietary rights that may prevent us from practicing our technologies and pursuing our programs. We also face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for partnering arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to additional technologies. These competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or products that are superior to ours. Any products that we develop through our technologies will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets. Development of pharmaceutical products requires significant investment and resources. Many of the organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staffs, facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in discovery and developing drugs, obtaining regulatory approvals and product manufacturing and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in more rapidly developing and marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our technologies and products or that would render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • our ability to develop novel product candidates with attractive pharmaceutical properties and to secure and protect intellectual property rights based on our innovations; • the efficacy and safety of our product candidates; • the speed at which we, Pfizer and potential future partners develop our product candidates; • our, Pfizer’s and potential future partners’ ability to design and successfully execute appropriate clinical trials; • our, Pfizer’s and potential future partners’ ability to obtain regulatory approvals to market our product candidates and the timing and scope of any regulatory approvals; • our, Pfizer’s and potential future partners’ ability to manufacture commercial quantities and sell any product candidates that are approved for marketing; • acceptance of future products by physicians and other healthcare providers; and • the development of effective pricing and reimbursement strategies. If we face product liability claims, these claims will divert our management’s time and we will incur litigation costs, and if we are held liable, our business, financial condition and results of operation may be materially harmed. We face an inherent business risk of liability claims in the event that the use of our potential products in clinical trials or otherwise, or any other products manufactured in our facility, results in personal injury or death. Even though we have obtained product liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover claims that may be made against us. Product liability insurance is expensive, difficult to obtain and may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any claims against us, regardless of their merit, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation, because litigation related to these claims would strain our financial resources in addition to consuming the time and attention of our management. If we are sued for any injuries caused by our products or products manufactured at our facility, our liability could exceed our total assets. 27 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES We use hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials. Some of these materials may be novel, including bacteria with novel properties and bacteria that produce biologically active compounds. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling, shipment and disposal of these materials. We could be subject to civil damages in the event of an improper or unauthorized release of, or exposure of individuals to, hazardous materials. In addition, we could be sued for injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties or our current or potential future partners of these materials, and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and total assets. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development or commercialization efforts. In the event we do not comply with any of these laws or regulations, we may incur significant fines, our governmental licenses or permits may be revoked or we may face additional penalties, any of which could harm our business. We have a stockholders rights plan and anti-takeover provisions in our corporate charter documents that may result in outcomes with which you do not agree. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of those shares without further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future may adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for third parties to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors and prevents our stockholders from acting by written consent. These provisions and other provisions of our bylaws and of Delaware law applicable to us could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. This could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. This is because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team. We have adopted a rights agreement under which all stockholders have the right to purchase shares of a new series of preferred stock at an exercise price of $70.00 per one one-hundredth of a share (subject to adjustment), if a person acquires more than 20% of our common stock. The rights plan could make it more difficult for a person to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. The rights plan could also reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock and result in the market price being lower than it would be without the rights plan. In addition, the existence of the rights plan itself may deter a potential acquirer from acquiring us. As a result, either by operation of the rights plan or by its potential deterrent effect, mergers and acquisitions of us that our stockholders may consider in their best interests may not occur. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. During the period from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007, our common stock traded between $3.20 and $7.35 on the 28 Table of Contents NASDAQ Global Market. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • delay or failure in initiating, conducting, completing or analyzing clinical trials or unsatisfactory design of or data from these trials; • our ability to enter into new partnering arrangements on favorable terms, or at all; • announcements of data from clinical trials or other developments that do not meet the expectations of analysts, investors or other third parties; • developments in clinical trials for potentially competitive product candidates; • changes in the United States or foreign health care systems or regulations; • regulatory approvals for competitive product candidates or delays or failures in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • new products or services introduced or announced by us or our competitors; • announcements of technological developments in research by us or our competitors; • published reports by securities analysts; • announcements of expirations, terminations or amendments of our current license agreements, or announcements that we have entered into new partnering, licensing or similar arrangements; • departures of key personnel; • developments or disputes as to patent or other proprietary rights; • litigation or an unfavorable outcome in litigation; • sales of our common stock; • announcements of, and actual or anticipated fluctuations in, our financial results; and • economic and other external factors, disasters or crises. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Market and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If this type of litigation were instituted against us, we would be faced with substantial costs and management’s attention and resources would be diverted, which could in turn seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our quarterly and annual results of operations will fluctuate, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline, creating investor losses. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: • expiration or termination of licensing arrangements, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our, Pfizer’s or potential future partners’ efforts leading to milestone payments and royalties under our licensing arrangements with Pfizer, or any future partnering arrangements that we may establish; • the progress of our product candidates in clinical trials, and therefore, the timing of expenses for those clinical trials; 29 Table of Contents KOSAN BIOSCIENCES • the timing and willingness of Pfizer and potential future partners to develop and commercialize our products; • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect Pfizer’s and potential future partners’ research and development expenditures; and • costs and expenses related to any litigation or administrative proceedings in which we may be involved. If our revenues decline or do not grow due to the failure to enter into new partnering arrangements or as a result of the expiration, termination or amendment of our current licensing agreements or other factors, we may not be able to reduce our operating expenses correspondingly. In addition, we expect operating expenses to continue to increase since, absent any new partnering arrangements with third parties, we will be required to independently to fund any development and clinical trial activities that we may undertake. Failure to achieve anticipated levels of revenues could therefore significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters or years may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price may decline. If we are unable to favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could be adversely affected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC, on an annual basis, our management is required to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to make its annual assessment are complex and require significant documentation and testing. While our internal controls over financial reporting were deemed effective by both our management and our independent auditors as of December 31, 2007, there may be changes in our systems, processes or operations that will affect the effectiveness of internal controls in the future. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Our future assessments of internal control over financial reporting may continue to result in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in the future, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting, investor confidence and our stock price could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 