Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. Such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are not the only ones facing us. Other risks or events that are not presently known to or anticipated by us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The risk factors set forth below are organized into three categories: “Industry Risks”, “Company Risks” and “Investment Risks.” Within each of these categories, the individual risk factors are arranged in a sequence which roughly corresponds with our view as to their order of significance, beginning with those that we consider to be of higher significance. Industry Risks The mainland China market is key to our current and future success and political instability in this market could seriously harm our business and reduce our revenue. Our customers in mainland China accounted for approximately 84% of our total revenues in 2014. Our dependence on revenue from the mainland China market is significant, and adverse political, legal or economic changes in mainland China may harm our business and cause our revenues to decline. The Chinese government has instituted a policy of economic reform which has included encouraging foreign trade and investment, and greater economic decentralization. However, the Chinese government may discontinue or change these policies, or these policies may not be successful. Moreover, despite progress in developing its legal system, mainland China does not have a comprehensive and highly developed system of laws, particularly as it relates to foreign investment activities and foreign trade. Enforcement of existing and future laws, regulations and contracts is uncertain, and implementation and interpretation of these laws and regulations may be inconsistent. As the Chinese legal system develops, new laws and regulations, changes to existing laws and regulations, and the interpretation or enforcement of laws and regulations may adversely affect business operations in and revenue from mainland China. While Hong Kong has had a long history of promoting foreign investment, its incorporation into China means that the uncertainty related to mainland China and its policies may now also affect Hong Kong. Exports from mainland China are key to our current and future success and uncompetitive cost conditions in this market, or a potential backlash against mainland Chinese-made products arising from inadequate product safety and quality standards, and/or fraudulent behavior by sellers, could reduce our revenue and seriously harm our business. Mainland China is the largest supplier of consumer products to the world. Our actual and potential customers are mainly suppliers who are based in mainland China. Should mainland China manufacturers’ production costs go up substantially (for example, due to the further appreciation of the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”), wage and product input price inflation, reduced export rebates and new environmental or labor regulations), products from mainland China may become less competitive on price versus other supply markets. There is also increasing competition from alternative cheaper emerging supply markets in the Asia-Pacific region, such as Vietnam and Indonesia. If products from mainland China become less competitive on price, buyers may shift their production sources or supply sources to other cheaper alternative markets or even bring their production in-house or to their own home countries, which would likely in turn have a negative impact on the demand in mainland China for our various export-focused media and marketing services. 5 In recent years, there have been several highly publicized incidents involving products made in mainland China not meeting consumer standards in overseas markets. More recently, there have been reports of fraudulent behavior whereby sellers in mainland China have taken orders and payment and then not delivered the products. If these kinds of issues continue or worsen, there may be a strong backlash against products made in mainland China and our business and financial condition may consequently suffer. International trade, and especially imports from the Greater China region (which includes mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan), is subject to political, legal and economic instability, which may inhibit our ability to be successful. The international markets in which we operate are subject to risks, including: · fluctuations in regional and/or global economic conditions; · fluctuations in the availability of trade finance, especially for small and medium enterprises in the Greater China region; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · governments could increase trade protection measures including tariffs, quotas, import duties or taxes, thereby significantly reducing demand for imported goods; · political instability; · the threat of terrorist attacks; · conflicting and/or changing legal and regulatory requirements; · restrictions placed on the operations of companies with a foreign status; · significant changes in tax laws and regulations (or the interpretation, practice or policies in respect thereof by tax authorities), tax rates and tax reporting requirements; · the loss of revenues, property and equipment from expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, terrorism and other political risks; · adverse governmental actions, such as restrictions on transfers of funds; and · oil embargoes or significant fluctuations in oil prices. In 2014, we derived approximately 95% of our revenues from customers in the Greater China region. We expect that a majority of our future revenues will continue to be generated from customers in this region. At the time of the Asian economic crisis of 1997 and 1998, and the global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, our revenues and operating results were adversely affected, and our sales declined. Future reductions in trade between Greater China and the world may cause our business to be harmed and our revenues to decrease. Our industry is intensely competitive, evolving and subject to rapid change. If we are unable to compete effectively, we will lose current customers and fail to attract new customers. If that happens, our business may not be successful and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Our industry is intensely competitive, particularly in the online space, which is becoming increasingly crowded with new market participants. Barriers to entry are minimal, and competitors are able to launch new websites and other media at a low cost. We constantly face threats from competition, including from non- 6 traditional competitors and new forms of media. We compete for our share of customers’ marketing and advertising budgets with other online marketplaces, trade publications and trade shows. Competitors vary in size, geographic scope, industries served and the breadth of the products and services offered. We may encounter competition from companies which offer more comprehensive content, services, functionality and/or lower prices. We may also encounter competition from companies offering software services and e-commerce transactional platforms. Many of our current and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and/or other resources than we have. Also, others may have more experience and greater name recognition. In addition, many of our competitors may have established relationships with one another and with our current and potential suppliers and buyers and may have extensive knowledge of our industry. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address customer needs. Accordingly, our competitors may develop and rapidly acquire significant market share. We endeavor to monitor significant business, market, competitive, financial, economic, political, legal, regulatory and/or other relevant trends and developments in the various markets and jurisdictions in or with which we actually or may potentially conduct our business and/or operations; to evaluate the corresponding opportunities and/or risks for us, if any; and to strategize, adapt and respond as appropriate (in which case we may have to incur significant expenditures to implement our strategies). However, we may not always be successful in correctly spotting, evaluating, appreciating the extent, significance or impact of, or in implementing appropriate strategies, initiatives or other measures in response to, such trends, developments, opportunities and risks; or we may fail or be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all. If that happens, we may fail to adapt and compete effectively and to grow our business and revenues, or we may incur significant costs to address lost time and opportunity, or we may suffer other costs or adverse consequences; in which event, our business and financial condition could thereby be harmed. Current and future economic uncertainty, slowdowns, or recessions have reduced and may continue to reduce demand and spending for business-to-business marketing services. This has in the past adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our revenues and operating results. The revenue and profitability of our business depends significantly on the overall demand for business-to-business media services. We believe that the demand for these services of ours is subject to a number of potentially negative factors, such as the large recent decline in global trade, the fact that many economies in the world have recently been in a recession and ongoing economic uncertainties. In addition, potential sovereign debt risks could adversely affect foreign trade. Accordingly, the overall level of global demand for mainland China’s and Asia’s exports may not be sustainable in the foreseeable future. As a result of the global market conditions, we may incur operating losses and net losses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve positive cash flow from operations. We have a significant fixed operating expense, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues. We depend upon Internet search sites and other online marketing channels to attract a significant portion of the users who visit our websites, and if we were listed less prominently in Internet search result listings, or if we are unable to rely on our other online marketing channels as a cost-effective means of driving visitors to our websites, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from users who search for content through Internet search sites, such as Google, Baidu, Bing and other Microsoft-powered search sites. A critical factor in attracting users to our websites is whether we are prominently displayed in such Internet search results. Search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search site. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the user’s Internet search. From time to time, search sites revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications may cause our websites to be listed less prominently in unpaid search results, which will result in decreased traffic from search site users to our websites. 7 Our websites may also become listed less prominently in unpaid search results for other reasons, such as search site technical difficulties, search site technical changes and changes we make to our websites. In addition, search sites have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search site guidelines and have decided not to list such companies’ websites in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently or not at all in search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our websites will likely decline, which could harm our operating results. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which also could harm our operating results and financial condition. We also rely on other online marketing channels (such as “pay per click” marketing) as an important means of driving visitors to our websites. However, the cost of such online marketing channels can change very frequently (often daily), and it is unclear whether such online marketing channels will remain cost-effective for us. If we are unable to rely on such online marketing channels as a cost-effective means of driving visitors to our websites, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed; or if we continue to rely on such marketing channels despite their increased costs, our marketing expenditures will increase, which also could harm our operating results and financial condition. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may have a material impact on our operating results, revenues, and profits. Because we operate internationally and report our operating results, revenues and profits in U.S. Dollars, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, especially in the RMB and other Asian currencies, may have a material impact on our operating results. The RMB strengthened during the last few years against the U.S. Dollar; however, in 2014 the RMB slightly weakened against the U.S. Dollar. Although we bill in RMB and have expenses in RMB in mainland China, if the RMB appreciates against the U.S. Dollar, our current and potential supplier customers may become less competitive with suppliers from other regions, leading to less demand for our advertising services. In addition, we have investments in operations and commercial properties in mainland China, the net assets of which are exposed to foreign currency translation risks. Further, we have significant amounts of deposits denominated in RMB, which are kept with commercial banks located in Hong Kong, and which are exposed to foreign currency fluctuation risks. To the extent significant currency fluctuations occur in the RMB and other Asian currencies, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Currently, we do not hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Evolving regulation of the Internet and commercial e-mail may affect us adversely. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing legislation and regulation by governments and agencies become more likely. We use e-mail as a significant means of communicating with our existing and potential customers and users. We also provide “@globalsources.com” e-mail addresses to our clients, for their use. The laws and regulations governing the use of e-mail for marketing purposes continue to evolve, and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the Internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation and/or changes to existing laws. Existing, new or additional legal prohibitions on the transmission of unsolicited commercial e-mail (commonly known as “spam”), coupled with aggressive enforcement, could reduce our ability to promote our services in a cost-efficient manner and our ability to facilitate communications between suppliers and buyers and, as a result, adversely affect our business and financial condition. 8 In addition to legal restrictions on the use of e-mail, Internet service providers, various operators of Internet mailbox services, anti-spam organizations and others typically attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited e-mail and are increasing the number and volume of unsolicited e-mails they are blocking. With this increasing vigilance also comes an increased rate of “false positives”, i.e., legitimate e-mails being wrongly identified as “spam.” If an Internet or other service provider or software program identifies e-mail from us (or from our clients to whom we have provided “@globalsources.com” e-mail addresses) as “spam”, we could be placed on a restricted list that would block our e-mails to our actual or potential customers or users who maintain e-mail accounts with these Internet service or other providers or who use these software programs or our e-mails could be routed to bulk folders and ignored. If we are unable to communicate by e-mail with our actual or potential customers or users as a result of legislation, blockage of our e-mails, routing of our e-mails to bulk folders, or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The laws governing Internet transactions and market access over the Internet are evolving and remain largely unsettled. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet may harm our business and financial condition by increasing our costs and administrative burdens. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws apply to the Internet. Changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. It is possible that new laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations in the United States, the European Union, mainland China and elsewhere will be adopted covering issues affecting our business, including: · privacy, data security, the use of “cookies” and the use of personally identifiable information; · copyrights, trademarks and domain names; and · marketing practices, such as telemarketing, e-mail or direct marketing or online behavioral advertising. Increased government regulation of, or the application of existing laws to, online activities or other relevant business, operational or marketing practices, could: · decrease the growth rate of our business; · reduce our revenues; · increase our operating expenses; or · expose us to significant liabilities. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is still evolving. Therefore, we might be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any impairment in the value of these important assets could cause our share price to decline. We cannot be sure what effect any future material non-compliance by us with these laws and regulations or any material changes in these laws and regulations could have on our business, operating results and financial condition. 9 We endeavor to monitor significant relevant legal and regulatory developments that could impact our business and operations. However, we may not always be successful in correctly spotting, evaluating, appreciating the extent, significance or impact of, or in adapting and implementing appropriate measures in response to, such developments; or we may fail or be unable to do so in a timely manner or at all. If that happens, we may incur significant legal liabilities, costs in mitigating or otherwise addressing the issue, or other adverse consequences, and our business, operating results and financial condition could thereby be harmed. Changes in laws and standards relating to data collection and use practices and the privacy of Internet users and other individuals could impair our efforts to maintain and grow our audience and thereby decrease our advertising revenue. We collect information from our users who register for services or respond to surveys. Subject to each user’s permission (or right to decline), we may use this information to inform our users of products and services that may be of interest to them. We may also share this information with our advertising clients for those who have granted us permission to share their information with third parties. In addition, we also use “cookies” in our websites and engage in various online behavioral advertising practices. Governments in various jurisdictions, including the United States and the European Union, have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information of Internet users. In addition, growing public concern about privacy, data security, the use of “cookies”, and online behavioral advertising practices, has led to or may result in increased legal and governmental regulation, and/or self-regulation of these practices by the Internet advertising and direct marketing industry. Because many of the proposed laws or regulations are in their early stages, we cannot yet determine the impact these regulations may have on our business and financial condition over time. Although, to date, our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations have not hurt our business and financial condition, additional or more burdensome laws or regulations, including consumer privacy and data security laws, could be enacted or applied to us or our customers. Such laws or regulations could impair our ability to collect user information that helps us to provide more targeted advertising to our users, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our audience and maximize advertising revenue from our advertising clients. Customer or user concerns regarding Internet security or fraud, or data privacy issues, may deter the adoption or use of our online products and services. Our business and financial success depends on our reputation and our customers’ and users’ confidence in the security of our products and services, our anti-fraud measures and our data privacy policies and practices. Widely publicized security breaches or fraud involving the Internet or online services generally, or our failure to prevent security breaches or fraud by our customers or users, or “phishing” activities by third parties who masquerade as us, or as our customers or users, in an attempt to obtain personal data from our other customers or users, or computer malware, viruses or hacking activities occurring on or through the Internet or our systems, may harm our reputation and cause our current and potential customers and users not to adopt or use our products and services, thereby adversely affecting our revenues. We may also be required to incur additional costs to protect against security breaches and fraud, or to alleviate problems caused thereby. In addition, increasing public awareness and concerns about data use and collection practices and other privacy issues could deter the adoption or use of our online products and services, thereby adversely affecting our revenues. Magazine advertising has declined in recent years and may continue to decline, which could adversely impact our revenue. In the past years, global business-to-business print advertising has significantly declined which has led to a decrease in our print advertising revenue. Print advertising is generally facing many challenges and may continue to decline and not recover. The growth in alternative forms of media, such as the Internet, has increased the competition for advertising dollars, which in turn could reduce the levels of expenditures for magazine advertising or suppress magazine advertising rates. Our customers may decide to use less print advertising as part of their overall marketing campaigns and the rates we charge for print advertising may decline, thereby adversely affecting our revenue. 10 Digital magazines may not become widely adopted and this may have an adverse effect on our competitive position. Technology, particularly digital technology used in the media industry, continues to evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology have led to alternative methods for the distribution of magazine content. Many publishers including ourselves have launched various types of digital magazines, often to complement print magazine editions. Our initiatives may not become widely adopted by buyers and other users, or advertisers, which could have a significant adverse effect on our competitive position and our business and results of operations. The successful operation of our business depends significantly on the quality, performance and reliability of the telecommunications and Internet infrastructure globally, and especially in mainland China and the Asia-Pacific region, where we derive most of our revenue and where the vast majority of our sales representatives are located. We derived approximately 41% of our revenue from Internet-related services in 2014 and poor performance or failures of the telecommunications and Internet infrastructure anywhere in the world could negatively impact our business. We are likely to continue to derive the majority of our Internet-based marketplace business and revenues from mainland China and the Asia-Pacific region. The quality, performance and reliability of some of the telecommunications and Internet infrastructure and telephone line availability in mainland China and many other countries in the Asia-Pacific region could fail and/or become unreliable. In mainland China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the government authorities. In addition, the national networks are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the mainland China government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a mainland China user can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure that a more sophisticated or flexible Internet infrastructure will be developed in mainland China. Our mainland China users may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with mainland China’s Internet infrastructure. Furthermore, the Internet infrastructure in mainland China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. These issues and problems may contribute to lower than expected adoption of many of our services and may cause our growth and revenues to fall below expectations, or we may have to incur significant costs to address or mitigate them, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Outbreaks of H1N1, avian influenza, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (“SARS”), Ebola, norovirus or other widespread public health problems could adversely affect our business and financial condition. In the event of future outbreaks of H1N1, avian influenza, SARS, Ebola, norovirus or other widespread public health problems, some ways in which our business and financial condition might be adversely affected could include the following: · quarantine or travel restrictions (whether required by government or public health authorities, or self-imposed) could result in the closure of some of our offices and other disruptions to our operations; · sickness or death of our key officers and employees; · a general slowdown in international trade and the global economy; 11 · our trade shows may have to be cancelled; and · exhibitor and visitor participation at our trade shows could be significantly curtailed or otherwise adversely affected. Climate change and other environment-related regulations in supply markets and overseas demand markets could increase the costs of certain groups of our supplier and/or buyer community, or otherwise harm their business or financial viability. As a result, they may reduce or cease their usage of our services, thereby adversely affecting our revenue. In many jurisdictions, there is a growing trend of increasing concerns, and legal, regulatory, political and policy developments, in the area of climate change and other environmental issues. These may discourage, or may involve the imposition of certain prohibitions, restrictions, standards, levies and/or taxes in respect of, certain types of manufacturing processes, products and/or imports, which may in turn increase the costs of affected manufacturers, suppliers, exporters, buyers and/or importers or otherwise harm their business or financial viability. Those of our supplier and/or buyer community who are so affected may consequently reduce or cease their usage of our services, in which case our revenue would be adversely affected. Company Risks Online advertising rates in our sectors have declined over the past few years, and if we are not able to slow or reverse this trend or to substantially grow the total number of customers using our services, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The marketing and pricing decisions of our competitors strongly influence our business and therefore affect our financial condition. For example, in mainland China, online advertising rates in our sectors have declined over the past few years. If online advertising rates continue to decline, if customers choose lower value packages, or if we are unable to make up for such declines by growing our customer base, it could affect the relative proportions of our online, print and trade show revenue mix, our overall margins could be adversely impacted and our business and financial condition could suffer. If our current and potential customers are not willing to renew and adopt our services, we may not attract and retain a critical mass of customers, our business may not be successful, and our financial condition could be adversely affected. Our services will be attractive to suppliers only if buyers use our services to identify suppliers and purchase their products. The content, products and suppliers currently available through our various media, or made available by suppliers, may not be sufficient to attract and retain buyers as users of our services. In addition, customers for our core export marketing services may reduce their focus on exports and shift more of their focus and marketing on the mainland China domestic market, where our products and services are generally less developed and extensive. If buyers and suppliers do not accept our media and services, or if we are unable to attract and retain a critical mass of buyers and suppliers for our media and services, our business will suffer and our revenues may decrease. Generally, suppliers’ advertising contracts with us for our online and print media are for 6 to 24 months in duration, while most booth contracts are for trade shows that will be held within the next 24 months. A significant percentage of our customers do not renew their contracts and we experience high customer turnover from year to year. If we cannot replace non-renewing customers with new customers, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 12 We may not innovate at a successful pace, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our industry is rapidly adopting new technologies and standards to create and satisfy the demands of users and advertisers. It is critical that we continue to innovate by anticipating and adapting to these changes to ensure that our content-delivery platforms and services remain effective and interesting to our users, advertisers and partners. In addition, we may discover that we must make significant expenditures to achieve these goals. If we fail to accomplish these goals, we may lose users and the advertisers that seek to reach those users, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may be required to record an impairment charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The carrying amounts of our goodwill and intangible assets as of December 31, 2014 were approximately $11.5 million and $26.3 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded an impairment charge of $2.2 million on intangible assets relating to one of our investments relating to our FashionSZshow exhibition business. Significant adverse changes in the business climate, or economic, competitive and other factors, may affect the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If any of these factors impair the value of these assets, accounting rules would require that we reduce their carrying value and recognize an impairment charge, which would reduce our reported assets and earnings in the year in which the impairment charge is recognized. There are various factors that could adversely affect our ability to operate our trade show business successfully and profitably. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from our trade show business. Our trade shows attract exhibitors from Greater China and the rest of Asia, and attendees from all over the world, and represent the great majority of our trade show business. Our trade shows may continue to be expanded into new categories and locations and we are uncertain as to our ability to attract and retain the quality and quantity of exhibitors and buyers that would enable such new trade show initiatives to be successful. Also, because of the complexities, competition and uncertainties associated with the expansion of our shows into new categories and locations, we may not achieve our desired sales objectives. Furthermore, in order to implement our trade show growth strategy and/or to cope with the scope or speed of expansion of our trade shows, our management, personnel and other resources may be strained and/or we may have to continue hiring additional personnel and incurring additional expenditures. In addition, our new or expanded trade show initiatives may erode the customer base of our other pre-existing trade shows. If we are unable or fail to manage these issues and execute the operations appropriately and effectively, it would jeopardize our ability to be successful in the trade show business and adversely affect our financial condition. From time to time, we may also discontinue our trade shows in a particular location, due to a reduction of exhibitor-interest and/or buyer-demand resulting from changes in the market conditions associated with that location or due to other factors such as those described above and below. Any such discontinuation could have an adverse impact on our overall trade show revenues. We rely heavily on cooperation with various government bodies, trade associations and other relevant parties for marketing and selling booths to exhibitors. The availability of government subsidies to exhibitors in some jurisdictions (e.g., mainland China) is also a significant factor in attracting exhibitors to our trade shows. If we fail to achieve such cooperation or if such cooperation is unsuccessful, or if government subsidies are not available or granted or are withdrawn, the success of our trade show business could be jeopardized, and our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. 13 Our trade show business also requires us to make substantial non-refundable deposits and progress payments to secure desirable venues and dates far in advance of conducting the trade show. The market for desirable dates and locations is often highly competitive and critical to the success of the show. If we cannot secure desirable dates and locations for our trade shows, their profitability and future prospects would suffer, and our financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Several other factors could also negatively affect our financial performance in this business, including: · natural catastrophes, labor strikes and transportation shutdowns; · the spread of H1N1, avian influenza, SARS, Ebola, norovirus and other similar epidemics; · civil unrest, political instability and the threat of terrorist attacks; · conflicting and/or changing legal and regulatory requirements; · changing and/or adverse governmental policies and actions; · decrease in demand for booth space; · we may not always be able to obtain the required trade show licenses (where applicable), which may limit the number of trade shows we are able to hold; · our sales representative companies’ inability to effectively expand their staff and infrastructure; · inability to renew our venue contracts on favorable terms or at desired times; · a slowdown in product demand from outlet markets; and · sudden closure of event venue sites due to unforeseen circumstances. In view of the various risks outlined above, we can give no assurances that our operation of the trade show business will be instrumental to our success or that our financial condition will not be adversely affected. Our trade shows in Hong Kong face various competitive threats that may adversely affect their success, profitability and viability. There are substantial and long-established trade shows in Hong Kong and southern mainland China which compete with our trade shows in Hong Kong, and which now have access to expanded venue space. Many of these competing trade show events and/or venues are owned and/or organized by, and/or sponsored, funded, endorsed and/or otherwise strongly supported by, governmental or statutory bodies, which may continue to further develop and/or expand such trade show events and/or venues in competition with ours or engage in other competitive actions. For example, the Hong Kong Trade Development Council (“HKTDC”), a government-subvented statutory body and the largest trade show organizer in Hong Kong, competes aggressively with our trade shows at the AsiaWorld-Expo exhibition venue in Hong Kong. The HKTDC is also a co-owner of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre (“HKCEC”), and is able to secure and has secured most of the favorable exhibition venue time-slots at the HKCEC for the HKTDC’s own trade shows. The HKCEC was recently expanded, and the HKTDC and the HKCEC (as well as other exhibition organizers and trade associations) have from time to time been pressing the Hong Kong government to consider supporting a further expansion (“Phase 3”) of the HKCEC. There have also been some industry and political pressures for more large-scale convention and exhibition centers to be built in Hong Kong. As a result of such developments, and especially if HKCEC Phase 3 proceeds or other exhibition venues are built, our overall competitiveness may be harmed, we may not be able to attract the desired quantity and quality of exhibitors and buyers to our trade shows, and the viability of our trade show business may be jeopardized. 14 The long-term growth and viability of our trade shows in Hong Kong depend significantly on the continued or improved attractiveness of the AsiaWorld-Expo exhibition venue (at which they are held) to exhibitors and buyers. If the economic, transportation, urban, tourism and other infrastructures and developments surrounding the AsiaWorld-Expo (which is located near the Hong Kong International Airport) are not further planned, built, improved and implemented appropriately or at all, and we are unable to secure bookings at and switch to other more attractive alternative exhibition venues for our Hong Kong trade shows, the overall competiveness and viability of our trade show business may be jeopardized. In addition, in June 2012, the Hong Kong government adopted a competition law that prohibits any agreement or concerted practice amongst undertakings, or any conduct by an undertaking with a substantial degree of market power, that has the object or effect of preventing, distorting or restricting competition in Hong Kong. This competition law would apply to private enterprises, but at the same time all Hong Kong statutory bodies (such as the HKTDC) would be excluded from the application of the competition law, unless Hong Kong’s Chief Executive-in-Council specifies, through subsequent regulations, which statutory bodies are not to be exempted. During the Hong Kong Legislative Council’s debate concerning this law, the Hong Kong government indicated that the HKTDC would not be one of the “non-exempted” statutory bodies covered by any such regulation to be made by Hong Kong’s Chief Executive-in-Council. If so, this means that while we will have to comply with the Hong Kong competition law regime, the HKTDC need not, thereby resulting in an uneven playing field that could jeopardize the competitiveness and viability of our trade show business in Hong Kong. Any re-branding of our media or re-organization of product verticals covered by our media could lead to a loss of customer recognition, affinity and loyalty, in which event our business could be adversely affected. Customer recognition, affinity and loyalty associated with our brands and the specialized product verticals covered by our various media are important to the success of our business. From time to time, we may re-brand some of our media and/or re-organize some of the product verticals covered by our various media. This could lead to a loss of the customer recognition, affinity and loyalty associated with the affected brands and/or product verticals concerned, in which event our business could be adversely affected. The loss of one or more of our executive officers could harm our business and financial condition. Our growth and success depend significantly on the continued services of our executive officers and other key members of our management. The loss of their services and/or that of other key executives, including our executive chairman, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating officer and chief information officer, or senior management personnel of our acquired subsidiaries, or significant changes in our executive management team, whether as a result of resignation, service termination, retirement, succession planning or otherwise, may be disruptive to our business and operations and/or could jeopardize the success and viability of our business and financial condition. If competitors hire our key personnel, it could allow them to compete more effectively by diverting customers from us and facilitating more rapid development of their competitive offerings. We may not be able to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel cost-effectively, or to successfully manage increases in personnel headcount required for business expansion purposes, which could impact the quality of our content and services and the effectiveness and efficiency of our management, resulting in increased costs and jeopardizing the success and viability of our business and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain at commercially reasonable rates qualified technical, sales support management, marketing, customer support, financial and accounting, legal and other managerial personnel. The competition for personnel in the industries in which we operate is intense. Our personnel may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Loss of personnel may also result in increased costs for replacement hiring and training. If we fail to attract and hire new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, we may not be able to operate our business effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly, or maintain the quality of our content and services. If this were to occur, our financial condition could be adversely affected. 15 In addition, any increases in personnel headcount required for business expansion purposes may strain our management and other resources and involve significant costs. If we are unable or fail to manage such issues effectively, it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We rely heavily on independent sales representative companies for the sales and marketing of our products and services. If we lose the services of these sales representative companies or their employees, or if they perform poorly, or if we fail to effectively manage our relationship with them, our business and revenues could be harmed. We have agreements with various independent sales representative companies, whom we rely heavily upon for the sales and marketing of our products and services. Eight main sales representative companies in mainland China were responsible for approximately 71% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014. These independent sales representatives collect cash from our customers on our behalf and deposit such collections into designated bank accounts owned by them whereby, for managing the credit risks, our senior employees are the authorized signatories to withdraw cash from such bank accounts in China. Generally, either we or the sales representative companies may terminate the service agreement between them and us upon short notice. It is possible that we may not retain some of our sales representative companies, or they may not retain some of their sales personnel (due to competition from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel) or be able to replace them with equally qualified personnel. Furthermore, if a sales representative company terminates its agreement with us, some of our customers with a direct relationship with that sales representative company or its personnel may terminate their relationship with us. Although these sales representative companies and their employees are independent from us, there can be no assurance that our reputation and our business, and our financial condition, will not be harmed by their acts or omissions. If sufficient numbers of employees are not recruited, or properly trained, integrated, motivated, retained and managed, by these sales representative companies, or if they or their employees perform poorly or fraudulently, or otherwise fail to perform their roles and responsibilities adequately, appropriately or as required, or if our relationships with these sales representative companies fail or deteriorate or we are otherwise unable or unsuccessful in effectively managing our relationship with them, our business and revenues may be harmed. In addition, although we have long-standing relationships with a majority of these independent sales representatives, for whom there is no recent history of default in transferring client payments received by them to us, if any of these sales representatives go bankrupt or otherwise fail to transfer such moneys to our own bank accounts, we could be exposed to credit risk. The value of our commercial properties in mainland China, Hong Kong and Singapore may fall below the carrying value, requiring us to recognize an impairment charge; or we may not be able to fully rent out any excess unutilized space in our investment properties. We own commercial properties in Shenzhen’s new commercial business district, which are equivalent in standard to “Grade A” private office premises in Hong Kong (“Grade A” private office premises in Hong Kong are defined by the Hong Kong Rating and Valuation Department and generally understood by the Hong Kong property market to mean premises situated in buildings designed for commercial purposes which are modern with high quality finishes; have a flexible layout; have large floor plates; have spacious, well decorated lobbies and circulation areas; have effective central air-conditioning; have good lift services zoned for passengers and goods deliveries; have professional management; and have parking facilities normally available). In addition, we own commercial properties in Hong Kong and Shanghai, and in February 2014 we acquired a commercial property in Singapore. The total carrying amount of our owned Shenzhen, Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore properties was approximately $142.18 million, and their total market value was approximately $242.52 million as of December 31, 2014. However, real estate markets are cyclical and valuation year-on-year is uncertain, given global and country-specific demand and supply drivers. As a result, we may not be able to recover the carrying value of our owned properties, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge in future earnings. 16 If and to the extent we are unable to fully rent out and generate rental income from any excess unutilized space in our investment properties, our operating results may be adversely affected thereby. We may not be successful in identifying, financing, consummating and/or effectively integrating acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic alliances, in order to expand our business. In such event, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We are regularly evaluating potential strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or other investments, or other opportunities for growth. We believe that these are key components of our business strategy. However, we may not be successful in identifying such opportunities, or we may not be able to negotiate satisfactory terms or consummate them successfully, or we may not have sufficient access to capital to enter into or to take advantage of them. In these circumstances, our growth potential, competitiveness and/or business success, and therefore our financial condition, may be harmed. If we do identify and consummate such opportunities, there is still a risk that we may not be able to integrate any new businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and operations, or to manage our relationships with our joint venture or alliance partners successfully. Alternatively, even if we are successful in doing so, we may not achieve expected results, or we may not realize other expected benefits. In such circumstances, our financial condition could be adversely affected. In order to finance such opportunities, we may use equity securities, debt, cash, or a combination of the foregoing. Any issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity may result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders, reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Any debt financing is likely to have financial and other covenants based on our performance, results or other conditions, and there could be an adverse impact on us if we do not observe, maintain, achieve or comply with applicable financial covenants, such as minimum performance results, or other conditions. In addition, the related increases in expenses could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our lengthy sales and implementation cycle could cause delays in concluding sales contracts with customers, thereby adversely affecting our business objectives and success, and therefore our financial condition. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long and unpredictable and may have delays associated with the lengthy budgeting and approval processes of our customers. This lengthy sales and implementation cycle may affect our ability to estimate our revenue in future quarters and could cause delays in the conclusion of sales contracts with customers, thereby adversely affecting our business objectives and success, and therefore our financial condition. Our plans to expand into the mainland China domestic business-to-business market may fail or underperform. We have various media properties serving the mainland China domestic market and we intend to grow this, in particular by adding online services and trade shows. We are generally less competitive in this market than the export market and may not be successful. Competition is intense and price points tend to be very low, which may adversely affect the success of our plans to expand into the mainland China domestic business-to-business market. We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely 17 affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates; by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to potential or actual tax reviews in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of such tax reviews and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of a tax review or related litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows. The failure of or security breaches to our computer systems, network and communications hardware and software could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on the high availability, good performance and strong security of our computer systems, network, and associated hardware and software. Any system interruptions, poor performance or security breaches impacting on Global Sources Online or any of our online sites may drive buyers and other registered users away and reduce the attractiveness of these sites to advertisers, therefore adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. We host our key customer-facing computer systems with major Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and data center facilities in Hong Kong. Interruptions to these service providers’ and/or their partners’ hosting services could result from natural disasters as well as catastrophic hardware failures, software problems, extended power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. While these service providers may have their own disaster recovery capabilities and/or be able to provide us with disaster recovery facilities on request in such circumstances, nevertheless, if there is any failure, inability or delay on their part in providing such disaster recovery facilities as committed, serious and prolonged disruptions to our systems and services could result. Although we support the integrity of our security with IDS (Intrusion Detection Systems), anti-virus and other tools as a precaution against computer malware, viruses, hackings, denial-of-service and other cyber intrusions, such security systems and programs are not completely foolproof or error-free, and new updates to deal with the latest viruses or security threats may not yet be available or may not yet have been implemented. Hence, security breaches could still occur, and we cannot give any assurances that we will always be able to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized access to our servers. Any such unauthorized access to our database servers, including abuse by our employees, could result in the theft of confidential customer or user information contained in our database servers. If such confidential information is compromised, we could lose customers or become subject to liability or litigation and our reputation could be harmed, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to legal liability for publishing or distributing advertisements or other content in our trade publications or websites, or at our trade shows. We may be subject to legal claims or liabilities relating to the advertising or other content on Global Sources Online or our other websites, or the downloading and distribution of such content, as well as legal claims or liabilities arising out of the products or companies featured in our trade publications and at our trade shows. Claims or liabilities could involve matters such as: libel and defamation; negligent misstatements; false or misleading advertisements; patent, trademark, copyright, design or other intellectual property infringement; fraud; invasion of privacy; direct or indirect, or primary or secondary, liability for illegal, prohibited, restricted, controlled, unlicensed, fake, defective, poor quality, hazardous, contaminated or injurious products or substances advertised on our websites or in our publications or exhibited at our trade shows; or other legal theories, for example, based on aiding and abetting our advertisers or exhibitors in our role as a publisher, website operator or trade show organizer (for example, by allegedly facilitating or providing the means for any unlawful or infringing activities conducted through the medium of our websites or publications or at our trade shows), or based on the nature, creation or distribution of our content (for example, the use of hypertext links to other websites operated by third parties). 18 Media companies have been sued in the past, sometimes successfully, based on the content published or made available by them. Like many companies in our industry, we have received notices of claims based on content made available in our publications, on our website or at our trade shows. In addition, some of the content provided on Global Sources Online is manually entered from data compiled by other parties, including governmental and commercial sources, and this data may have errors, or we may introduce errors when entering such data. If our content is improperly used or if we supply incorrect information, our users or third parties may take legal action against us. In addition, we may violate usage restrictions placed on text or data that is supplied to us by third parties. Regardless of the merit of such claims or legal actions, they could divert management time and attention away from our business, result in significant costs to investigate and defend, and damage our reputation (which could result in client cancellations or overall decreased demand for our products and services), thereby harming our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are not successful in defending against such claims or legal actions, we may be liable to pay substantial damages. Our insurance may not cover claims or legal actions of this type, or may not provide sufficient coverage. We may be subject to legal liability for the supplier verification services that we offer to buyers. In addition to supplier-provided information, we also offer verification services (by ourselves and/or through third parties whom we engage) to buyers in respect of certain data from certain of our supplier customers. These verification services include: verification of some of a supplier’s company and business details; supplier credit profiles and credit reports; and supplier capability assessment. We may be subject to legal claims and actions for any inaccurate, erroneous, incomplete or misleading information provided in connection with such verification services. While we may have liability disclaimers associated with such verification services, such liability disclaimers may nevertheless be insufficient to deter a complainant from attempting to raise a claim or to institute legal action against us, or may be held by a court to be invalid or unenforceable. As for those verification services which are not provided directly by us but by third parties engaged by us, a complainant may nevertheless attempt to hold us responsible for such third parties. Regardless of the merit of any such claims or legal actions, they could divert management time and attention away from our business, result in significant costs to investigate and defend, and damage our reputation (which could result in client cancellations or overall decreased demand for our products and services), thereby harming our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are not successful in defending against such claims or legal actions, we may be liable to pay substantial damages. Our insurance may not cover claims or legal actions of this type, or may not provide sufficient coverage. Our intellectual property protection is limited, and others may infringe upon it, which may reduce our ability to compete and may divert our resources. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part upon our proprietary technology, content and information databases, the goodwill associated with our trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. We have relied on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other contractual restrictions to protect ourselves. However, our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Although we have filed (and continue to file) applications for and have obtained registration of many of our key trademarks in various jurisdictions, we may not always be able to obtain successful registrations. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our software and services. If others are able to develop or use technology and/or content we have developed, our competitive position may be negatively affected. We have in the past co-developed, and may in the future co-develop, some of our intellectual property with independent third parties. In these instances, we take all action that we believe is necessary and advisable to protect and to gain ownership of all co-developed intellectual property. However, if such third parties were to introduce similar or competing online products and services that achieve market acceptance, the success of our online services and business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be harmed. We cannot determine whether future patent, copyright, service mark or trademark applications, if any, will be granted. No certainty exists as to whether our current intellectual property or any future intellectual property that we may develop will be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or will provide us with any competitive advantages. 19 Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Intellectual property laws provide limited protection. Moreover, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection for intellectual property as the laws of the United States. Such laws may not always be sufficient to prevent others from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our content, technologies or trademarks. In addition, policing our intellectual property rights worldwide is a difficult task, and we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or to identify infringers. Litigation may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, regardless of its outcome, which may limit our ability to develop new services and compete for customers. If third parties claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, our ability to use technologies and products may be limited, and we may incur substantial costs to resolve these claims. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the Internet and software industries. Defending against these claims could be expensive and divert our attention from operating our business. We expect third-party infringement claims involving Internet technologies and software products and services to increase. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay substantial damage awards and be forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license with costly royalties or cease using the products and services that contain the infringing technology or content. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or content or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. All of this could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not have, in all cases, conducted formal or comprehensive investigations or evaluations to confirm that our content and trademarks do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we cannot be certain that we do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. If we are found to have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights, the value of our brands and our business reputation could be impaired, and our business and financial condition could suffer. Apart from the U.S. treasury bills which we hold, a significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held as cash deposits with various banks. In the event of an insolvency of any such banks, we may not be able to recover our cash from them in full or in part, or there may be prolonged delays in such recovery. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held as cash deposits with various commercial banks. A majority of such balances are held in banks located outside mainland China. Although we have not recognized any losses to date on our cash and cash equivalents, in the event of an insolvency of any such banks, we may not be able to recover our cash from them in full or in part, or there may be prolonged delays in such recovery. This could materially adversely affect the value or liquidity of our cash and cash equivalents and result in an impairment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. The commercial real estate properties which we own in mainland China constitute a substantial portion of our assets, and there are legal ownership risks associated with these properties, given the fact that the interpretation of mainland China laws and regulations involves uncertainty. The mainland China legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions can only be used as a reference. For some time now, the mainland China government has been promulgating laws and regulations in relation to economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to developing a comprehensive system of commercial law, including laws relating to property ownership and development. However, due to the fact that these laws and regulations have not been fully developed, and because of the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, interpretation of mainland Chinese laws and regulations involves a degree of uncertainty. 20 Some of these laws may be changed without being immediately published or may be amended with retroactive effect. In addition, any litigation in mainland China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. All these uncertainties may cause difficulties in the enforcement of our land use rights, entitlements under its permits, and other statutory and contractual rights and interests relating to the commercial real estate properties which we own in mainland China and which constitute a substantial portion of our assets. The failure of outside parties to meet committed service levels and information accuracy expectations may make our services less attractive to customers and harm our business and financial condition. We rely on outside parties for some information, licenses, product delivery, telecommunications and technology products and services. We rely on relationships and/or contractual agreements with software developers and providers, systems integrators and other technology or telecommunications firms to support, enhance and develop our products and services. Although we have contracts with technology providers to enhance, expand, manage and maintain our computer and communications equipment and software, these service providers may not provide acceptable services. Services provided by third parties include providing application licenses, hosting our Global Sources Online servers and database, maintaining our communications and managing the network and data centers which we rely on for the provision of our services. These relationships may not continue or may not be available on the same commercial terms in the future, which could cause customer dissatisfaction and/or a delay in the launch of new software or services. We license some components of our technology from third parties. These licenses may not be available to us on the same commercial terms in the future. The loss of these licenses could delay the release or enhancement of our services until equivalent technology could be licensed, developed, or otherwise obtained. Any such delay could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. These factors may deter customers from using our services, damage our business reputation, cause us to lose current customers, and harm our ability to attract new customers, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition. We have no direct control over the accuracy, timeliness, or effectiveness of the information, products and services or performances of these outside parties. As a result of outside party actions, we may fail to provide accurate, complete and current information about customers and their products in a timely manner and to deliver information to buyers and/or other registered users in a satisfactory manner. Our inability to maintain or acquire effective Internet domain names could adversely impact our online business. If we are not able to prevent third parties from acquiring Internet domain names that are similar to the various Internet domain names that we own, third parties could create confusion that diverts traffic to other websites away from our online services, thereby adversely affecting our business and financial condition. Furthermore, if we are unable to acquire the preferred or appropriate Internet domain names that we may wish to use for any new or additional websites that we may wish to launch from time to time (for example, if such Internet domain names are already registered by third parties), the timing, scale or effectiveness of our launch efforts could be adversely impacted. The acquisition and maintenance of Internet domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies. The regulation of Internet domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain relevant Internet domain names. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing such addresses and laws protecting proprietary rights is unclear. 21 Should our directors or officers incur personal liabilities in connection with the performance of their duties, such liabilities could be substantial. Our insurance coverage for such directors’ or officers’ liabilities may be inadequate, and we may have to indemnify them (if, and to the extent, applicable and permissible) out of our own funds. Our insurance coverage for the potential personal liabilities of our directors and officers is limited and may not be sufficient to cover the scope or extent of such liabilities. In such event, our directors and officers may have to rely in whole or in part on indemnities from out of our funds (see “Personal Liability of Directors and Indemnity” under Item 10 for a description of the personal liabilities of our directors and the indemnities by us which may be available to our directors and officers). If and to the extent such indemnities are applicable and permissible, they could be substantial. We may be required to record an impairment charge on our accounts receivable if we are unable to collect the outstanding balances from our customers. We generally collect our fees in advance from customers in markets with higher risk. We have a large number of customers and no individual customer represents more than 10% of our accounts receivable. We estimate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on our analysis of the accounts receivable, historical bad debts, customer creditworthiness and current economic trends. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain adequate impairment allowance for doubtful accounts. However, while credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the allowances we established, if the bad debts significantly exceed our impairment allowance, our operating results and liquidity could be adversely affected. Investment Risks Our quarterly operating results may have seasonal fluctuations and as a result, we may fail to meet analyst, investor and/or shareholder expectations. We typically experience seasonal quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our revenue. Currently, most of our largest trade shows are expected to be held in the second quarter and fourth quarter of each year. The net result of the above seasonality is that second and fourth quarter revenues are likely to be substantially higher than the first and third quarter revenues. In 2014, approximately 29% of our revenue was generated during the second quarter and approximately 32% during the fourth quarter. The first quarter accounted for approximately 17% of our revenue in 2014 and the third quarter accounted for approximately 22% of our revenue in 2014. In addition, certain expenses associated with future revenues are likely to be incurred in the preceding quarters, which may cause profitability to be lower in those preceding quarters. Also, because event revenue is recognized when a particular event is held, we may also experience fluctuations in quarterly revenue based on the movement of annual trade show dates from one quarter to another. As a result of seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, we may fail to meet analyst, investor and/or shareholder expectations. There is a limited public market for our shares and the trading volume for our shares is low, which may limit your ability to sell your shares or purchase more shares. As of February 28, 2015, we had approximately 968 registered shareholders, and a total of 30,218,703 issued and outstanding common shares of par value $0.01 each, out of which approximately 17,639,899 issued and outstanding common shares were tradable on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”). Because of the small number of shareholders and the small number of publicly tradable shares, we cannot be sure that an active trading market will develop or be sustained or that you will be able to sell or buy common shares when you want to. As a result, it may be difficult to make purchases or sales of our common shares in the market at any particular time or in any significant quantity. If our shareholders sell our common shares in the public market, the market price of our common shares may fall. In addition, such sales may create the perception by the public of difficulties or problems with our products and services or management. As a result, these sales may make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time or price that is appropriate. 22 Sales of our common shares by our major shareholders could depress the price of the common shares. Sales of common shares by our major shareholders could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common shares. As of February 28, 2015, we had 30,218,703 common shares issued and outstanding, out of which at least 14,445,169 common shares issued and outstanding are beneficially owned by people who may be deemed “affiliates”, as defined by Rule 405 of the Act. Of these 14,445,169 shares, 12,288,938 shares are “restricted securities” which can be resold in the public market only if registered with the SEC or pursuant to an exemption from registration. We cannot predict what effect, if any, that the sales of such restricted shares or the availability of shares for sale, will have on the market price of the common shares from time to time. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for the common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through an offering of our equity securities. Merle A. Hinrich, our Executive Chairman, is also our major shareholder and he may take actions that conflict with your interest. As of February 28, 2015, Mr. Merle Allan Hinrich beneficially owned approximately 41.60% of our total issued and outstanding common shares, and may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of up to 45.87% of our total issued and outstanding common shares (as described in Item 7 below). Mr. Hinrich is also our Executive Chairman. Accordingly, Mr. Hinrich has substantial voting influence over the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the opposition of actions requiring shareholder approval, such as adopting amendments to our articles of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. Such concentration of ownership and substantial voting influence may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even if a change of control is in the best interest of all shareholders. There may be instances in which the interests of our major shareholder may conflict or be perceived as being in conflict with the interests of a holder of our securities or the interest of the Company. Because we are governed by Bermuda law rather than the laws of the United States and our assets are outside of the United States, our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their rights because of differences in the laws of the jurisdictions. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda. In addition, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of our assets is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or to realize against them judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States federal securities laws. We have been advised by our legal counsel in Bermuda, Appleby, that there is some uncertainty as to the enforcement in Bermuda, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws, although final and conclusive judgments in the courts of the United States against our Company under which a sum of money is payable (not being a sum of money payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature, in respect of a fine or other penalty, or in respect of multiple damages as defined in The Protection of Trading Interests Act 1981 of Bermuda) would be enforced by the Supreme Court of Bermuda as a debt against our Company, subject to certain conditions and exceptions. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, and this may depress our share price. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or the displacement of our management. These provisions may discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for the shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions may also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. These provisions include: 23 · providing for a staggered Board of Directors, so that it would take three successive annual general meetings to replace all directors; · requiring the approval of 100% of shareholders for shareholder action by written consent; · establishing advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that may be acted upon by shareholders at a general meeting; and · with respect to engaging in business combinations with, or proposed by or on behalf of, any interested shareholder or its affiliate, requiring the approval of not less than two-thirds of the holders of our voting shares (other than shares held by that interested shareholder or any affiliate or associate of such interested shareholder), voting together as a single class, or by a simple majority if the business combination is approved by a majority of the continuing directors or if certain prescribed conditions are met assuming that we will receive fair market value in exchange for such business combination. In this context, a “business combination” includes, among others, (i) any mergers, (ii) any asset sales and other material transactions resulting in a benefit to the interested shareholder or any of its affiliates or associates or (iii) the adoption of a plan for our liquidation or dissolution; an “affiliate” or an “associate” have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”); a “continuing director” is a member of our Board of Directors that is not an affiliate or associate or representative of an interested shareholder and was a member of our board prior to such person becoming an interested shareholder; and an “interested shareholder” is any person (other than us or any of our subsidiaries, or any profit sharing, employee share ownership or other employee benefit plan, or any of the shareholders of Trade Media Holdings Limited that received our shares pursuant to a share exchange agreement prior to the listing of our shares on NASDAQ) that owns or has announced its intention to own, or with respect to any of our affiliates or associates, within the prior two years did own, at least 15% of our voting shares. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and have disclosure obligations that are different than those of other U.S. domestic reporting companies, so you should not expect to receive information about us in the same amount and/or at the same time as information received from, or provided by, U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to some of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the SEC. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or file proxy statements with the SEC, and we and our directors and executive officers are not subject to certain disclosure obligations that would otherwise be required if we were a U.S. domestic issuer. Hence, our shareholders, potential shareholders and the investing public in general should not expect to receive information about us in the same amount and/or at the same time as information received from, or provided by, U.S. domestic reporting companies. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and did, follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of otherwise applicable Nasdaq Global Select Market requirements, which may result in less protection than is accorded to investors under rules applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and did, follow certain home country corporate governance practices instead of those otherwise required under the applicable rules of the Nasdaq Global Select Market for domestic U.S. issuers, provided that we disclose the requirements we are not following and describe the home country practices we are following. From time to time, we have followed and may follow home country practice in Bermuda in lieu of Nasdaq Global Select Market rules requiring shareholders to approve equity compensation plans and material revisions thereto. Under the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (as amended) (the “Companies Act”), there is no general requirement for equity compensation plans of a Bermuda company to be approved by way of a shareholders’ resolution, which is different than the requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market listing standards. As such, while we may choose to seek shareholder approval for any equity compensation plans, our memorandum of association and bye-laws do not require any such approvals. See “Item 24 16.G – Corporate Governance.” We may in the future elect to follow home country practices in Bermuda with regard to other matters. Following our home country governance practices as opposed to the requirements that would otherwise apply to a U.S. company listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market may provide less protection to you than what is accorded to investors under the applicable rules of the Nasdaq Global Select Market applicable to domestic U.S. issuers. Our share prices may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors. Our share price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors such as quarterly variations in operating results; announcements of new services or pricing options by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; failure to meet our financial guidance and/or the financial forecasts of analysts; the operating and share price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; news reports relating to trends in the Internet and the information technology industry; reports, articles, commentaries, blogs or online postings about us by analysts, short sellers, our competitors, our customers, our users and/or others; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; or changes in laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or by NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our shares. U.S. persons that hold our common shares could be subject to material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if we were considered to be a PFIC for any taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation generally will be a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which, after applying the relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of its subsidiaries, either (i) 75% or more of its gross income is “passive income” (generally including (without limitation) dividends, interest, annuities and certain royalties and rents not derived in the active conduct of a business) or (ii) the average value of its assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% of the total value of its assets. Although the application of the PFIC rules is unclear, there is a risk that we could be treated as having become a PFIC in a prior year, and there can be no assurance that we will not be considered a PFIC for the current year or any subsequent year. A U.S. person that holds our common shares should consult its own tax advisor regarding possible adverse tax consequences to such person if we are considered to be a PFIC. 