Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decrease. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of large operating losses and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have never been profitable. We have incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception. As of June 28, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,059.6 million. Our net loss for the year ended June 28, 2008 was $23.4 million. Our net loss for the year ended June 30, 2007 was $82.2 million. For the year ended July 1, 2006, our net loss was $87.5 million, which included an $18.8 million loss on conversion of convertible debt and early extinguishment of debt, and an aggregate of $11.2 million of restructuring charges, partially offset by an $11.7 million tax gain. We may not be able to achieve profitability in any future period and if we are unable to do so, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. We may not be able to maintain positive gross margins. We may not be able to maintain positive gross margins due to, among other things, new product transitions, changing product mix or facility under-utilization. Additionally, we must continue to reduce our costs and improve our product mix to offset price erosion on certain product categories. In particular, over the last fiscal year we have introduced a family of tunable products that account for an increasing percentage of our overall product revenues. In the quarter ended June 28, 2008 we were capacity constrained in our delivery of these products due to component supply and production limitations. In addition, we have not yet achieved targeted margins on these products as we introduce them into large-scale production. Although we have plans in place both to address production constraints and improve margins in our tunable products, any failure to do so will adversely affect our financial results, including our goal to achieve cash flow positive operations. In addition, over the next two fiscal quarters we expect to incur, in total, an additional $1 million to $1.5 million of manufacturing overhead costs in connection with our transfer of the substantial portion of our San Jose manufacturing operations to our Shenzhen site. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to evolving technologies and customer requirements. The market for telecommunications equipment is characterized by substantial capital investment and diverse and evolving technologies. For example, the market for optical components is currently characterized by a trend toward the adoption of pluggable components and tunable transmitters that do not require the customized interconnections of traditional fixed wavelength gold box devices and the increased integration of components on subsystems. Our ability to anticipate and respond to these and other changes in technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products will be significant factors in our ability to succeed. We expect that new technologies will continue to emerge as competition in the telecommunications industry increases and the need for higher and more cost efficient bandwidth expands. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products or products in development uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or unmarketable. The market for optical components continues to be characterized by excess capacity and intense price competition which has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Even though the market for optical components has been gradually recovering from the industry-wide slump experienced at the beginning of the decade, particularly in the metro market segment, there continues to be excess capacity for many optical components companies, intense price competition among optical component manufacturers and continued consolidation in the industry. As a result of this excess capacity, and other industry factors, pricing pressure remains intense. The continued uncertainties in the telecommunications industry and the global economy make it difficult for us to anticipate revenue levels and therefore to make appropriate estimates and plans relating to cost management. Continued uncertain demand for optical components has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Historically, we have generated most of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For example, in the fiscal year ended June 28, 2008 and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, our three largest customers accounted for 33% and 41% of our revenues, respectively. Revenues from any of our major customers may decline or fluctuate significantly in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to offset any decline in revenues from our existing major customers with revenues from new customers or other existing customers. We and our telecom customers depend upon a limited number of major telecommunications carriers. Our dependence on a limited number of customers is due to the fact that the optical telecommunications systems industry is dominated by a small number of large companies. These customers in turn depend primarily on a limited number of major telecommunications carrier customers to purchase their products that incorporate our optical components. Many major telecommunication systems companies and telecommunication carriers are experiencing losses from operations. The further consolidation of the industry, coupled with declining revenues from our major customers, may have a material adverse impact on our business. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers and our customers may decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with little or no advance notice to us. Our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders. While our customers generally provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, in most cases they are not contractually committed to buy any quantity of products beyond those in purchase orders previously submitted to us. Our customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short- and long-term financial and operating goals and result in excess and obsolete inventory. As a result of our global operations, our business is subject to currency fluctuations that have adversely affected our results of operations in recent quarters and may continue to do so in the future. Our financial results have been materially impacted by foreign currency fluctuations and our future financial results may also be materially impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. At certain times in our history, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the U.K. pound sterling have had a major negative effect on our profit margins and our cash flow. Despite our change in domicile from the United Kingdom to the United States in 2004 and the transfer of our assembly and test operations from Paignton, U.K. to Shenzhen, China, a significant portion of our expenses are still denominated in U.K. pounds sterling and substantially all of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these two currencies and, to a lesser extent, other currencies in which we collect revenues and or pay expenses will continue to have a material effect on our operating results. For example, from the end of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 to the end of our fiscal year ended June 28, 2008, the Swiss Franc has appreciated 16% relative to the U.S. dollar, and could continue to appreciate in the future. Additional exposure could also result should the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Chinese Yuan vary more significantly than it has to date. We engage in currency hedging transactions in an effort to cover some of our exposure to such currency fluctuations, and we may be required to convert currencies to meet our obligations. Under certain circumstances, these transactions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are increasing manufacturing operations in China, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in China. We are taking advantage of the comparatively low costs of operating in China. We have recently transferred substantially all of our assembly and test operations, chip-on-carrier operations and manufacturing and supply chain management operations to our facility in Shenzhen, China, and have also transferred certain iterative research and development related activities from the U.K. to Shenzhen, China. We are also transferring certain non-telecom manufacturing operations from our San Jose, California facility to our Shenzhen facility. The substantial portions of our assembly and test and related manufacturing operations are now concentrated in our single facility in China. To be successful in China we will need to: • qualify our manufacturing lines and the products we produce in Shenzhen, as required by our customers; • attract qualified personnel to operate our Shenzhen facility; and • retain employees at our Shenzhen facility. There can be no assurance we will be able to do any of these. Employee turnover in China is high due to the intensely competitive and fluid market for skilled labor. To operate the facility, and to the extent we are unable to retain our existing workforce, we will need to continue to hire direct manufacturing personnel, administrative personnel and technical personnel, obtain and retain required legal authorization to hire such personnel, and incur the time and expense to hire and train such personnel. 12 Table of Contents Operations in China are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than our operations in other countries. In particular, the political, legal and economic climate in China, both nationally and regionally, is fluid and unpredictable. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations such as those related to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property and other matters. In addition, we may not obtain or retain the requisite legal permits to continue to operate in China and costs or operational limitations may be imposed in connection with obtaining and complying with such permits. We have, in the past, been advised that power may be rationed in the location of our Shenzhen facility, and were power rationing to be implemented, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to complete manufacturing commitments on a timely basis or, alternatively, could require significant investment in generating capacity to sustain uninterrupted operations at the facility, which we may not be able to do successfully. We intend to export the majority of the products manufactured at our Shenzhen facility. Under current regulations, upon application and approval by the relevant governmental authorities, we will not be subject to certain Chinese taxes and will be exempt from certain duties on imported materials that are used in the manufacturing process and subsequently exported from China as finished products. However, Chinese trade regulations are in a state of flux, and we may become subject to other forms of taxation and duties in China or may be required to pay export fees in the future. In the event that we become subject to new forms of taxation or export fees in China, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may also be required to expend greater amounts than we currently anticipate in connection with increasing production at the Shenzhen facility. Any one of the factors cited above, or a combination of them, could result in unanticipated costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in operating results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. The timing of order placement, size of orders and satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria, as well as order or shipment delays or deferrals, with respect to our products, may cause material fluctuations in revenues. Our lengthy sales cycle, which may extend to more than one year, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary from period to period and it may be difficult to predict the timing and amount of any variation. Delays or deferrals in purchasing decisions by our customers may increase as we develop new or enhanced products for new markets, including data communications, industrial, research, semiconductor capital equipment, military and biotechnology markets. Our current and anticipated future dependence on a small number of customers increases the revenue impact of each such customer’s decision to delay or defer purchases from us. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future revenue sources and, as a result, operating results for any quarterly period in which material orders fail to occur, or are delayed or deferred could vary significantly. Because of these and other factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be an indication of future performance. In future periods, results of operations may differ from the estimates of public market analysts and investors. Such a discrepancy could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may incur additional significant restructuring charges that will adversely affect our results of operations. Over the past nine years, we have enacted a series of restructuring plans and cost reduction plans designed to reduce our manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses. In 2001, we reduced manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses in response to the initial decline in demand in the optical components industry. In connection with our acquisitions of NNOC in November 2002 and New Focus in March 2004, we enacted restructuring plans related to the consolidation of our operations, which we expanded in September 2004 to include the transfer of our main corporate functions, including consolidated accounting, financial reporting, tax and treasury, from Abingdon, U.K. to our U.S. headquarters in San Jose, California. In May, September and December 2004, we announced restructuring plans, including the transfer of our assembly and test operations from Paignton, U.K. to Shenzhen, China, along with reductions in research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. These cost reduction efforts were expanded in November 2005 to include the transfer of our chip-on-carrier assembly from Paignton to Shenzhen. The transfer of these operations was completed in the quarter ended March 31, 2007. In May 2006, we announced further cost reduction plans, which included transitioning all remaining manufacturing support and supply chain management, along with pilot line production and production planning, from Paignton to Shenzhen. This was substantially completed in the quarter ended June 30, 2007. We have spent an aggregate of $32.8 million on these restructuring programs. On January 31, 2007, we adopted an overhead cost reduction plan which included workforce reductions, facility and site consolidation of our Caswell, U.K. semiconductor operations within our existing U.K. facilities and the transfer of certain research and development activities to our Shenzhen facility. As of December 27, 2007, this plan was substantially complete. , We have incurred expenses of $7.7 million with respect to this cost reduction plan, the substantial portion being personnel severance and retention related expenses. As a result of the completion of this plan, we have saved approximately $8 million per fiscal quarter in expenses when compared to the quarter ended December 30, 2006. 13 Table of Contents We plan on taking further advantage of the relatively lower operating costs in our Shenzhen facility by completing the transfer of most of the manufacturing operations from our San Jose, California non-telecom facility to Shenzhen over the next two quarters. We expect related charges to be approximately $0.8 million to $1.0 million over the next two quarters, with anticipated cost savings of approximately $0.4 to $0.5 million a quarter thereafter, compared to the quarter ended March 29, 2008, and we expect to incur approximately 1.0 million to $1.5 million of additional manufacturing overhead costs in the next two fiscal quarters in connection with this transfer. The substantial portion of the restructuring charges is expected to be for personnel related severance and retention costs. We may incur charges in excess of amounts currently estimated for these restructuring and cost reduction plans. We may incur additional charges in the future in connection with future restructurings and cost reduction plans. These charges, along with any other charges, have adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our results of operations for the periods in which such charges have been, or will be, incurred. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory, and we may incur inventory-related charges. We need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements. Accurately forecasting customers’ product needs is difficult. Some of our products and supplies have in the past, and may in the future, become obsolete while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer specifications or a decrease in customer demand. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off unsaleable or obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have from time to time incurred significant inventory-related charges. Any such charges we incur in future periods could significantly adversely affect our results of operations. Bookham Technology plc may not be able to utilize tax losses and other tax attributes against the receivables that arise as a result of its transaction with Deutsche Bank. On August 10, 2005, Bookham Technology plc purchased all of the issued share capital of City Leasing (Creekside) Limited, a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank. Creekside was entitled to receivables of £73.8 million (approximately $135.8 million, based on an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.8403, in effect on September 2, 2005) from Deutsche Bank in connection with certain aircraft subleases and these payments have been applied over a two-year term to obligations of £73.1 million (approximately $134.5 million based on an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.8403) owed to Deutsche Bank. As a result of the completion of these transactions, Bookham Technology plc has had available through Creekside cash of approximately £6.63 million (approximately $12.2 million based on an exchange rate of £1.00 to $1.8403). We expect Bookham Technology plc to utilize certain expected tax losses and other tax attributes to reduce the taxes that might otherwise be due by Creekside as the receivables are paid. In the event that Bookham Technology plc is not able to utilize these tax losses and other tax attributes when U.K. tax returns are filed for the relevant periods (or these tax losses and other tax attributes do not arise), Creekside may have to pay taxes, reducing the cash available from Creekside. In the event there is a future change in applicable U.K. tax law, Creekside and in turn Bookham Technology plc, would be responsible for any resulting tax liabilities, which amounts could be material to our financial condition or operating results. Our products are complex and may take longer to develop than anticipated and we may not recognize revenues from new products until after long field testing and customer acceptance periods. Many of our new products must be tailored to customer specifications. As a result, we are constantly developing new products and using new technologies in those products. For example, while we currently manufacture and sell discrete gold box technology, we expect that many of our sales of gold box technology will soon be replaced by pluggable modules. New products or modification to existing products often take many quarters to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. We often incur substantial costs associated with the research and development and sales and marketing activities in connection with products that may be purchased long after we have incurred the costs associated with designing, creating and selling such products. In addition, due to the rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenue from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty, particularly in the present economic climate, the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, or the effect that any cancellation or modification would have on our results of operations. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. Our manufacturing lines have passed our qualification standards, as well as our technical standards. However, our customers also require that we pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, encounter quality control issues as a result of relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain customer qualification of our manufacturing lines or we may experience delays in obtaining customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. Such delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our operating results and customer relationships. 14 Table of Contents Delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or the manufacturing operations of our subcontractors. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect gross margins, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues, competitive position and reputation. Furthermore, even if we are able to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, we may be unable to recognize revenues at the time of delivery based on our revenue recognition policies. We may experience low manufacturing yields. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Higher volumes due to demand for a fixed, rather than continually changing, design generally results in higher manufacturing yields, whereas lower volume production generally results in lower yields. In addition, lower yields may result, and have in the past resulted, from commercial shipments of products prior to full manufacturing qualification to the applicable specifications. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive or inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. We depend on a limited number of suppliers who could disrupt our business if they stopped, decreased or delayed shipments. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of raw materials and equipment used to manufacture our products. Some of these suppliers are sole sources. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers and, therefore, these suppliers generally may stop supplying us materials and equipment at any time. Our reliance on a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of materials or equipment we use to manufacture our products could adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our intellectual property rights, including patents, design rights, trade secrets, trademarks, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We maintain an active program of identifying technology appropriate for patent protection. Our practice is to require employees and consultants to execute non-disclosure and proprietary rights agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting arrangements. These agreements acknowledge our exclusive ownership of all intellectual property developed by the individuals during their work for us and require that all proprietary information disclosed will remain confidential. Although such agreements may be binding, they may not be enforceable in full or in part in all jurisdictions and any breach of a confidentiality obligation could have a very serious effect on our business and the remedy for such breach may be limited. Our intellectual property portfolio is an important corporate asset. The steps we have taken and may take in the future to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. We cannot assure investors that our competitors will not successfully challenge the validity of our patents or design products that avoid infringement of our proprietary rights with respect to our technology. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other similar technologies, that any patents will be issued from any application pending or filed by us or that, if patents are issued, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, we cannot assure investors that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights under those patents will provide a competitive advantage to us. Further, the laws of certain regions in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Asia-Pacific, Southeast Asia and Latin America, may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, the U.K. and continental European countries. This is especially relevant now that we have transferred all of our assembly and test operations and chip-on-carrier operations, including certain engineering related functions, from our facilities in the U.K. to Shenzhen, China and as our competitors establish manufacturing operations in China to take advantage of comparatively low manufacturing costs. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others which could result in expensive litigation or require us to obtain a license to use the technology from third parties, or we may be prohibited from selling certain products in the future. Companies in the industry in which we operate frequently receive claims of patent infringement or infringement of other intellectual property rights. We have, from time to time, received such claims, including from competitors and from companies that have substantially more resources than us. 15 Table of Contents For example, on March 4, 2008, we filed a declaratory judgment complaint captioned Bookham, Inc. v. JDS Uniphase Corp. and Agility Communications, Inc., Civil Action No. 5:08-CV-01275-RMW, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division. Our complaint seeks declaratory judgments that our tunable laser products do not infringe any valid, enforceable claim of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,658,035, 6,654,400, 6,687,278, and that all claims of the aforementioned patents are invalid and unenforceable. Our complaint also contains affirmative claims for relief against JDS Uniphase Corp. and Agility Communications, Inc. for statutory unfair competition, and for intentional interference with economic advantage. On July 21, 2008, JDS Uniphase Corp. and Agility Communications, Inc. answered our complaint and asserted counterclaims against Bookham for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,658,035, 6,654,400, 6,687,278, which JDS Uniphase Corp. acquired from Agility Communications, Inc. The counterclaims are focused on our tunable laser product line, but no disclosure of particular alleged infringing products has yet been made. JDS Uniphase Corp. seeks unspecified compensatory damages, treble damages and attorney fees from Bookham, and an order enjoining Bookham from future infringement of the patents-in-suit. No litigation schedule or trial date has yet been set. Any adverse ruling by the court, including an injunction that could prohibit us from using the technology covered by the patents in our products, or prolonged litigation may have an adverse effect on our business and any resolution may not be in our favor. Third parties may in the future assert claims against us concerning our existing products or with respect to future products under development. We have entered into and may in the future enter into indemnification obligations in favor of some customers that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding that we are infringing other parties’ proprietary rights. If we do infringe a third party’s rights, we may need to negotiate with holders of those rights relevant to our business. We have from time to time received notices from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property and where appropriate have entered into license agreements with those third parties with respect to that intellectual property. We may not in all cases be able to resolve allegations of infringement through licensing arrangements, settlement, alternative designs or otherwise. We may take legal action to determine the validity and scope of the third-party rights or to defend against any allegations of infringement. In the course of pursuing any of these means or defending against any lawsuits filed against us, we could incur significant costs and diversion of our resources. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, it is unlikely that we could increase our prices to cover such costs. In addition, such claims could result in significant penalties or injunctions that could prevent us from selling some of our products in certain markets or result in settlements that require payment of significant royalties that could adversely affect our ability to price our products profitably. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. Certain companies in the telecommunications and optical components markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Optical component suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. In the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could inhibit or prohibit our production and sale of existing products and our development of new products for our markets. Licenses granting us the right to use third-party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, in the event we are granted such a license it is likely such license would be non-exclusive and other parties, including competitors, may be able to utilize such technology. Our larger competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, which could result in lost sales and lower revenues. The market for fiber optic components and modules is highly competitive and such competition could result in our existing customers moving their orders to competitors. We are aware of a number of companies that have developed or are developing optical component products, including tunable lasers, pluggables and thin film filter products, among others, that compete directly with our current and proposed product offerings. Certain of our competitors may be able to more quickly and effectively: • respond to new technologies or technical standards; • react to changing customer requirements and expectations; • devote needed resources to the development, production, promotion and sale of products; and • deliver competitive products at lower prices. Many of our current competitors, as well as a number of our potential competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and industry alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing 16 Table of Contents resources than we do. In addition, market leaders in industries such as semiconductor and data communications, who may also have significantly more resources than we do, may in the future enter our market with competing products. All of these risks may be increased if the market were to further consolidate through mergers or other business combinations between competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors and aggressive competition in the market may result in lower prices for our products or decreased gross margins. Any such development would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues internationally and therefore are subject to additional risks associated with the extent of our international operations. For the years ended June 28, 2008, June 30, 2007 and July 1, 2006, 25%, 23% and 21% of our revenues, respectively, were derived in the United States and 75%, 77% and 79% of our revenues, respectively, were derived outside the United States. We are subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: • currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulty in enforcing or adequately protecting our intellectual property; • foreign taxes; • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets; and • foreign regulations. Any of these risks, or any other risks related to our foreign operations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will be adversely affected if we cannot manage the significant changes in the number of our employees and the size of our operations. We have significantly reduced the number of employees and scope of our operations because of declining demand for certain of our products and continue to reduce our headcount in connection with our on-going restructuring and cost reduction efforts. During periods of growth or decline, management may not be able to sufficiently coordinate the roles of individuals to ensure that all areas of our operations receive appropriate focus and attention. If we are unable to manage our headcount, manufacturing capacity and scope of operations effectively, the cost and quality of our products may suffer, we may be unable to attract and retain key personnel and we may be unable to market and develop new products. Further, the inability to successfully manage a more geographically diverse organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management, could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We may be faced with product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects, including consequential damages. Such defects could, moreover, impair the market’s acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, we may assume product warranty liabilities related to companies we acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In order to mitigate the risk of liability for damages, we carry product liability insurance with a $26 million aggregate annual limit and errors and omissions insurance with a $5 million annual limit. We cannot assure investors that this insurance would adequately cover our costs arising from defects in our products or otherwise. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for highly skilled technical people is extremely intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of services of these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similar to other technology companies, we rely upon stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as key components of our executive and employee compensation structure. Historically, these components have been critical to our ability to retain important personnel and offer competitive compensation packages. Without these components, we would be required to significantly increase cash compensation levels (or develop alternative compensation structures) in order to retain our key employees. Accounting rules relating to the expensing of equity compensation may cause us to substantially reduce, modify, or even eliminate, all or portions of our equity compensation programs which may, in turn, prevent us from retaining or hiring qualified employees. 17 Table of Contents Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside of our control. Our business and operating results are vulnerable to interruption by events outside of our control, such as earthquakes, fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, political instability, military conflict and uncertainties arising out of terrorist attacks, including a global economic slowdown, the economic consequences of additional military action or additional terrorist activities and associated political instability, and the effect of heightened security concerns on domestic and international travel and commerce. We may not be able to raise capital when desired on favorable terms, or at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. The rapidly changing industry in which we operate, the length of time between developing and introducing a product to market and frequent changing customer specifications for products, among other things, makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or otherwise have the capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies. In the past, we have sold shares of our common stock in public offerings, private placements or otherwise in order to fund our operations. On November 13, 2007, we completed a public offering of 16,000,000 shares of common stock that generated $40.8 million of cash, net of underwriting commissions and expenses. On March 22, 2007, pursuant to a private placement, we issued 13,640,224 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to 4,092,066 shares of common stock. In September 2006, pursuant to a private placement, we issued an aggregate of 11,594,667 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,898,667 shares of common stock. In January and March 2006, pursuant to a private placement, we issued an aggregate of 10,507,158 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,086,001 shares of common stock. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of securities held by existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Litigation Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we are subject to environmental and import/export laws and regulations that may expose us to liability and increase our costs. We historically handled small amounts of hazardous materials as part of our manufacturing activities and now handle more and different hazardous materials as a result of the manufacturing processes related to the New Focus division of our non-telecom segment, the optical components business acquired from Nortel Networks and the product lines we acquired from Marconi. Consequently, our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use and handling of hazardous substances and waste disposal. We may incur costs to comply with current or future environmental laws. As with other companies engaged in manufacturing activities that involve hazardous materials, a risk of environmental liability is inherent in our manufacturing activities, as is the risk that our facilities will be shut down in the event of a release of hazardous waste. The costs associated with environmental compliance or remediation efforts or other environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business. Under applicable EU regulations, we, along with other electronics component manufacturers, are prohibited from using lead and certain other hazardous materials in our products. We have incurred unanticipated expenses in connection with the related reconfiguration of our products, and could lose business or face product returns if we failed to implement these requirements properly or on a timely basis. In addition, the sale and manufacture of certain of our products require on-going compliance with governmental security and import/export regulations. Our New Focus division has, in the past, been notified of potential violations of certain export regulations which on one occasion resulted in the payment of a fine to the U.S. federal government. We may, in the future, be subject to investigation which may result in fines for violations of security and import/export regulations. Furthermore, any disruptions of our product shipments in the future, including disruptions as a result of efforts to comply with governmental regulations, could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and results of operations. Litigation regarding Bookham Technology plc’s and New Focus’ initial public offering and follow-on offering and any other litigation in which we become involved, including as a result of acquisitions or the arrangements we have with suppliers and customers, may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. On June 26, 2001, a putative securities class action captioned Lanter v. New Focus, Inc. et al., Civil Action No. 01-CV-5822, was filed against New Focus, Inc. (“New Focus”) and several of its officers and directors, or the Individual Defendants, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Also named as defendants were Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, Chase Securities, Inc., U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray, Inc. and CIBC World Markets Corp., or the Underwriter Defendants, the underwriters in New Focus’s initial public offering. Three subsequent lawsuits were filed containing substantially similar allegations. These complaints have been consolidated. 18 Table of Contents On November 7, 2001, a Class Action Complaint was filed against Bookham Technology plc and others in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed an Amended Class Action Complaint, described below. The Amended Class Action Complaint names as defendants Bookham Technology plc, Goldman, Sachs & Co. and FleetBoston Robertson Stephens, Inc., two of the underwriters of Bookham Technology plc’s initial public offering in April 2000, and Andrew G. Rickman, Stephen J. Cockrell and David Simpson, each of whom was an officer and/or director at the time of Bookham Technology plc’s initial public offering. Various plaintiffs have filed similar actions asserting virtually identical allegations against more than 300 other public companies, their underwriters, and their officers and directors arising out of each company’s public offering. These actions, including the action against New Focus and the action against Bookham Technology plc, have been coordinated for pretrial purposes and captioned In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, 21 MC 92. On April 19, 2002, plaintiffs filed a Consolidated Amended Class Action Complaint in the New Focus action and an Amended Class Action Complaint in the Bookham Technology plc action (together, the “Amended Class Action Complaints”). The Amended Class Action Complaints assert claims under certain provisions of the securities laws of the United States. They allege, among other things, that the prospectuses for Bookham Technology plc’s and New Focus’s initial public offerings were materially false and misleading in describing the compensation to be earned by the underwriters in connection with the offerings, and in not disclosing certain alleged arrangements among the underwriters and initial purchasers of ordinary shares, in the case of Bookham Technology plc, or common stock, in the case of New Focus, from the underwriters. The Amended Class Action Complaints seek unspecified damages (or, in the alternative, rescission for those class members who no longer hold our or New Focus common stock), costs, attorneys’ fees, experts’ fees, interest and other expenses. In October 2002, the Individual Defendants were dismissed, without prejudice, from the action subject to their execution of tolling agreements. In July 2002, all defendants filed Motions to Dismiss the Amended Class Action Complaints. The motions were denied as to Bookham Technology plc and New Focus in February 2003. Special committees of the board of directors authorized the companies to negotiate a settlement of pending claims substantially consistent with a memorandum of understanding negotiated among class plaintiffs, all issuer defendants and their insurers. The plaintiffs and most of the issuer defendants and their insurers entered into a stipulation of settlement for the claims against the issuer defendants, including Bookham Technology plc and New Focus. This stipulation of settlement was subject to, among other things, certification of the underlying class of plaintiffs. Under the stipulation of settlement, the plaintiffs would dismiss and release all claims against participating defendants in exchange for a payment guaranty by the insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in the related cases, and the assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of certain claims the issuer defendants may have against the underwriters. On February 15, 2005, the District Court issued an Opinion and Order preliminarily approving the settlement provided that the defendants and plaintiffs agree to a modification narrowing the scope of the bar order set forth in the original settlement agreement. The parties agreed to the modification narrowing the scope of the bar order, and on August 31, 2005, the District Court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement. On December 5, 2006, following an appeal from the underwriter defendants the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned the District Court’s certification of the class of plaintiffs who are pursuing the claims that would be settled in the settlement against the underwriter defendants. Plaintiffs filed a Petition for Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc with the Second Circuit on January 5, 2007 in response to the Second Circuit’s decision and have informed the District Court that they would like to be heard as to whether the settlement may still be approved even if the decision of the Court of Appeals is not reversed. The District Court indicated that it would defer consideration of final approval of the settlement pending plaintiffs’ request for further appellate review. On April 6, 2007, the Second Circuit denied plaintiffs’ petition for rehearing, but clarified that the plaintiffs may seek to certify a more limited class in the District Court. In light of the overturned class certification on June 25, 2007, the District Court signed an Order terminating the settlement. The actions against Bookham Technology plc and New Focus remain stayed while litigation proceeds in six test cases against other companies which involve claims virtually identical to those that have been asserted against Bookham Technology plc and New Focus. It is uncertain whether there will be any revised or future settlement. If a settlement does not occur and litigation against Bookham Technology plc and New Focus continues, the Company believes that both Bookham Technology plc and New Focus have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the Amended Class Action Complaints and therefore believes that such claims will not have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. On November 12, 2007, Xi’an Raysung Photonics Inc. filed a civil suit against Bookham, Inc., and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Bookham Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., in the Xi’an Intermediate People’s Court in Shanxi Province of the People’s Republic of China. The complaint filed by Xi’an Raysung Photonics Inc. alleges that Bookham, Inc. and Bookham Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. breached an agreement between the parties pursuant to which Xi’an Raysung Photonics Inc. had supplied certain sample components and was to supply certain components to Bookham, Inc. and Bookham Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Xi’an Raysung Photonics Inc. has increased its request that the court award damages of 20,000,000 Chinese Yuan (approximately $2.9 million based on an exchange rate of $1.00 to 6.85495 Chinese Yuan as in effect on June 28, 2008) and require that Bookham, Inc. and Bookham Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. pay its legal fees in connection with the suit. Bookham, Inc. and Bookham Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. believes they have meritorious defenses to the claims made by Xi’an Raysung Photonics Inc. and therefore believes that such claims will not have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any litigation to which we are subject may be costly and, further, could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and under Delaware laws could hinder a takeover attempt. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitations of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors serving staggered three year terms and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. All of these provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short-term, to the interests of the stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions also may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying changes in control or management of us. Risks Related to Our Common Stock A variety of factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to be volatile or decline. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. In addition to the matters discussed in other risk factors included herein, some of the reasons for the fluctuations in our stock price are: • fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in our business, operations or prospects; • hiring or departure of key personnel; • new contractual relationships with key suppliers or customers by us or our competitors; • proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; • financial results that fail to meet public market analysts’ expectations and changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other optical technology companies or the telecommunication industry in general; • future sales of common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock; • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; • acts of war, terrorism, or natural disasters; • industry, domestic and international market and economic conditions; • low trading volume in our stock; • developments relating to patents or property rights; and • government regulatory changes. Since Bookham Technology plc’s initial public offering in April 2000, Bookham Technology plc’s ADSs and ordinary shares, our shares of common stock and the shares of our customers and competitors have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations, in many cases without any direct relationship to the affected company’s operating performance. An outgrowth of this market volatility is the significant vulnerability of our stock price and the stock prices of our customers and competitors to any actual or perceived fluctuation in the strength of the markets we serve, regardless of the actual consequence of such fluctuations. As a result, the market prices for these companies are highly volatile. These broad market and industry factors caused the market price of Bookham Technology plc’s ADSs, ordinary shares, and our common stock to fluctuate, and may in the future cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, regardless of our actual operating performance or the operating performance of our customers. We may incur significant costs from class action litigation due to our expected stock volatility. Our stock price may fluctuate for many reasons, including as a result of public announcements regarding the progress of our product development efforts, the addition or departure of key personnel, variations in our quarterly operating results and changes in 20 Table of Contents market valuations of companies in our industry. Recently, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, as our stock price may be, holders of that stock have occasionally brought securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit were without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. In addition, if the suit were resolved in a manner adverse to us, the damages we could be required to pay may be substantial and would have an adverse impact on our ability to operate our business. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance the development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect your rights as a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the holders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may in the future issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 