RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this annual report, the considerations listed below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares, warrants, ADSs or ADWs. The risks set forth below comprise all material risks currently known to us. However, there may be additional risks that we do not currently know of or that we currently deem immaterial based on the information available to us. These factors should be considered carefully, together with the information and financial data set forth in this document. Risks Related to the Airline Industry Future terrorist attacks, the threat of attacks or regional instability, medical epidemics or threats or fears of epidemics may worsen conditions in the airline industry. The terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001 had a significant negative effect on the global economy, political stability and market conditions around the world. Airlines, in particular, experienced significant revenue losses and incurred substantial additional costs, principally as a result of a decrease in demand for air travel, significantly higher costs of insurance and passenger and aircraft security, and decreases in the resale prices of some types of aircraft. Regional instability following hostilities in Iraq has also had a material adverse effect on the airline industry. Any future terrorist attack, military action, or the threat of attacks or action, in the Middle East or elsewhere, could result in a general reduction in airline passenger traffic and prices for airline travel, newly imposed air traffic restrictions in affected regions and an increase in fuel or insurance costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, passenger volumes may significantly decrease in the event of a medical epidemic or threat or fear of an epidemic. For example, the outbreak of SARS in 2003 resulted in a sharp reduction in air traffic and revenue related to Asia. The prolonged existence of a medical epidemic, or the perception that an outbreak has not been contained or may occur again in the future, may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our air services to or from affected countries. Insurance costs increased significantly after September 11, 2001, and may increase in the future, and the amount of available insurance coverage may be further limited as the result of similar events. Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, insurance premiums for airlines increased significantly, especially for risks relating to terrorism. In the event of further terrorist attacks or acts of war, insurance premiums may be increased further or insurance may be made available only with additional limitations on coverage. Any failure to obtain adequate insurance coverage or insurance coverage at financially acceptable terms in the future would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government support of airlines may have a distorting effect on competition in the airline industry. Following the events of September 11, 2001, a number of countries took measures to help airlines extend coverage for damage caused to third parties on the ground as a result of terrorist acts, since the coverage available in the insurance market was limited. The French State and the Netherlands offered airlines, for a charge, an extension of coverage for loss amounts that exceeded the insurance coverage available in the market. From November 1, 2002, France and the Netherlands phased out this additional coverage at the direction of the European Commission, and European airline companies were required to obtain insurance coverage from private insurance companies. The United States, however, passed legislation permitting federal authorities to maintain government guarantees in favor of U.S. airline companies covering damage caused to third parties on the ground, passengers, crew and aircraft, at cost levels substantially below those borne by European airlines. In addition, in February 2005, the U.S. government took over US Airways pensions for machinists and attendants in exchange for a financial stake in US Airways. Further, in May 2005, the U.S. government agreed to take over United 9 Table of Contents Airlines pensions in exchange for a financial stake in its parent company, UAL Corp. Added to the substantial subsidies received from U.S. federal authorities and the costs of new security measures assumed by the U.S. federal authorities following the events of September 11, 2001, the reduced insurance costs paid by U.S. airlines have offered, and continue to offer, U.S. airlines a significant competitive advantage over their European competitors, particularly on routes over the North Atlantic. In addition, four of the major U.S. airlines have filed for bankruptcy support under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code. Similar protections offered by governmental authorities in the future may have a material adverse effect on our business. High fixed costs and low profit margins may limit profitability in the airline industry. The airline industry is characterized by low gross profit margins and high fixed costs. The expenses of each flight do not vary significantly with the number of passengers or amount of cargo carried and, therefore, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in the pricing or traffic mix could have a significant effect on operating and financial results. Accordingly, a minor shortfall from expected business levels could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. The airline industry is by nature cyclical and seasonal, which may cause our results to vary widely. Our businesses are highly sensitive to local, regional and international economic conditions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to changing economic and political conditions prevailing from time to time in the principal markets throughout the world. Because both business and leisure airline travel is discretionary, our business tends to experience severe adverse financial results during general economic downturns. In addition, during an economic downturn, we may also be required to accept delivery of new aircraft that we have agreed to purchase even if the new aircraft are not required for our current operations, or may be unable to dispose of unnecessary aircraft on financially acceptable terms. The airline industry tends to be seasonal in nature. The demand for scheduled airline services is lowest during the winter months, which generally results in seasonal fluctuations in revenues and results of operations. Our results of operations for the interim periods of any financial year may not be indicative of our results of operations for the full year. Changes in international, regional and local regulation and legislation could significantly increase our costs of operations or reduce our revenues. Our operations are subject to a high degree of international, European and national regulation covering most aspects of its operation, including traffic rights, fare setting, operating standards (the most important of which relate to safety, security and aircraft noise), airport access and slot availability. Additional laws and regulations and additional or increased taxes, airport and navigation rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase our cost of operations or reduce our revenues. The ability of European carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between European and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots are not available. Laws or regulations enacted in the future may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to the Business The integration of Air France and KLM may be difficult and may not result in the benefits that we currently expect. The development of Air France-KLM requires the integration of two major and complex activities that were run separately until March 31, 2004. Air France-KLM may encounter difficulties with the integration of the activities of Air France and KLM and may not be able to achieve all of the objectives of and the synergies expected to result from the combination. 10 Table of Contents Regulatory authorities have imposed conditions and may impose additional conditions that could reduce the expected benefits of the combination. Air France and KLM, in order to secure the approval of the combination by the European Commission on February 11, 2004, agreed to make a number of concessions in respect of the operations of Air France-KLM, including a commitment to release take-off and landing slots to competitors at certain airports. We do not believe that compliance with these undertakings has had or will have a material adverse effect on our operations. Substantial competition from other major airlines, high-speed rail travel and “low-cost” airlines may harm our business. The airline industry is highly competitive and prone to price discounting. The air travel market in the European Union has been fully liberalized and any European airline is able to compete with Air France and KLM in their domestic and European markets. Liberalization of the European market and the resulting competition among carriers has led to a general decrease of airfares and an increase in the number of competitors in many lines of business. We currently face substantial competition from other carriers. This competition is likely to increase further. With respect to short-haul and medium-haul flights in or from France, the Netherlands and other European countries, we currently face competition from providers of alternative forms of transportation. In particular, we compete directly with the French high-speed train system (the TGV) on transportation to major French cities, which are the targeted market for Air France’s La Navette shuttle services. The Eurostar train service to London competes directly with Air France’s flights to London. An expansion of the TGV system within France or high-speed rail service within Europe generally could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we face increasing competition from low-cost airlines that have become significant competitors in the European airline industry in recent years. The percentage of routes on which we compete with carriers having substantially lower operating costs has grown significantly over the past decade. Such competition is likely to continue at this level or intensify in the future. Moreover, the increase in pricing transparency resulting from the use of the Internet has enabled consumers to more easily obtain the lowest fare on any given route. Continued or increased competition from other carriers, including low-cost airlines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by high jet fuel prices. After labor costs, fuel costs constitute the single largest portion of our operating costs and have a major impact on our results of operations. For the year ended March 31, 2006, fuel costs represented 17.5% of our operating expenses, an increase of 3.2 percentage points from the prior year. The price of jet fuel is usually correlated to the price of petroleum. The average price of Brent IPE petroleum for the financial year ended March 31, 2006 was $58.8 per barrel and between January and March 2006 was $62.7 per barrel, and between April and June 2006 was $67.0 per barrel. The price of Brent IPE petroleum on July 18, 2006 was U.S.$76.33 per barrel. The average price of jet fuel for the financial year ended March 31, 2006 was $598.0 per ton and between January and March 2006 was $613.9 per ton. These rates are very high by historical standards. Jet fuel costs may be affected by a number of factors, including fluctuations in the euro/dollar exchange rate, political events, war or the threat of war, and the coordinated pricing decisions of producer cartels such as OPEC. We seek to reduce this risk by hedging against the price of petroleum. We have additionally introduced a fuel surcharge per flight leg as from May 2004 which as of the date of this annual report reached €16 on medium-haul flights and €40 on long-haul flights for Air France and €22 on medium-haul flights and €52 on long-haul flights for KLM. We have also introduced a fuel surcharge on cargo operations. Notwithstanding the application of hedging policies, the introduction of a fuel surcharge and possible adjustments in fares across the industry during periods of sustained high fuel prices, high jet fuel costs have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 11 Table of Contents results of operations in the past, and may have such an effect on us in the future. In addition, while we purchase our fuel in dollars, our reporting currency is the euro. Adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may further exacerbate the effects of high fuel prices. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and increases in interest rates may negatively affect our results. Given the international nature of our business, we receive a large part of our revenues and incur an even larger part of our expenses in certain foreign currencies, particularly dollars, and will be exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between those currencies and the euro. Our dollar revenues are less than our dollar costs, such as fuel costs and payments under aircraft operating leases. As a result, the sharp decline of the dollar against the euro has had a positive impact on our profitability by decreasing our costs more rapidly than its revenues. However, if the dollar were to increase in value against the euro, our costs would rise more rapidly than revenues, negatively affecting profitability. We estimate that Air France-KLM’s net exposure to the dollar (dollar costs minus dollar revenues) for the current financial year is approximately $2.4 billion. We seek to reduce this risk by hedging against currency fluctuations. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Exchange Rate Risk”. With respect to the British pound and Japanese yen, we currently have more revenues than costs in those currencies, so that a decrease in their value would have a negative effect on our profitability. As a result, significant increases in the value of the dollar or, to a lesser extent, decreases in the value of the pound or yen, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, despite our efforts to hedge against these fluctuations. We are also exposed to increases in interest rates. Most of Air France-KLM’s net debt had variable rates of interest. We seek to reduce this risk by entering into swap arrangements. A significant rise in interest rates could substantially increase the cost of this debt, reducing our net income. See “Item 11: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Interest Rate Risk”. The failure of an alliance to develop or the decision by other members not to participate fully or to withdraw from an alliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Maintenance and development of alliances and other strategic relations are critical to our business. Air France and KLM are members of the SkyTeam alliance with Aeroflot (since April 2006), Aeroméxico, Alitalia, Continental Airlines, CSA Czech Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Korean Air and Northwest Airlines. We also have a joint venture with Alitalia. The success of these alliances depends in part on the actions and strategic plans of the other airlines over which we have little control. The failure of an alliance to develop or the decision by other members not to participate fully or to withdraw from the alliance altogether could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we believe that further industry consolidation is likely, whether through additional alliances or otherwise. A failure to maintain or develop strategic alliances could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our development of new routes depends on access to a limited number of “slots” at international airports that may be withdrawn if not sufficiently used. Our ability to add additional flights to the existing schedules of Air France and KLM will be constrained, in part, by the availability of slots at the world’s main airports. In the European Union, air carriers must generally use an allocated slot at a minimum of 80% of the level of use during the period the slot was assigned. Air France and KLM may lose flight slots granted to them should they not use those slots at an 80% level. In addition, Air France and KLM have committed to the European Commission to make slots available to competitors on certain routes under certain circumstances. 12 Table of Contents Compliance with environmental regulations may affect our existing or future operations and result in additional costs. The airline industry is subject to environmental laws and regulations and will be subject to further environmental laws and regulations in the future. These environmental laws and regulations relate to, among other things, aircraft noise and aircraft engine emissions, the use and handling of hazardous materials, air emissions and environmental contamination clean-up. In recent years, French, Dutch, E.U. and U.S. regulatory authorities have issued a number of directives and other regulations including regulations relating to aircraft noise and age. These requirements impose high fees, taxes and substantial ongoing compliance costs on airlines, particularly as new aircraft brought into service will have to meet the environmental requirements during their entire service life. We expect to incur expenditures on an ongoing basis to comply with such regulations. Compliance with these laws could restrict our ability to modify or expand facilities or continue operations, or could require us to install costly pollution control equipment or incur other significant expenses, including remediation costs. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Regulation of Air France-KLM—Other Regulatory and Legal Issues—Environmental Protection and Anti-Noise Standards”. The assurances to KLM and the State of the Netherlands could limit our ability to take certain actions. In connection with the combination, Air France and KLM granted certain assurances to the State of the Netherlands. The assurances granted to the State of the Netherlands have a term of five or eight years from completion of the exchange offer, depending on the assurance in question. The State assurances are intended to preserve the network quality of KLM at Schiphol airport, which, according to the State of the Netherlands, is a matter of public interest for the Netherlands, and include certain binding commitments by both Air France and KLM. In addition, Air France and KLM agreed to certain assurances designed to preserve basic principles underlying the business combination. These assurances could limit our ability to respond to changes in the competitive or economic environments in which we will operate, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms in the future. Because the airline industry is by its nature capital intensive, Air France and, in particular, KLM have incurred significant indebtedness and capital commitments to finance their ongoing operations. Air France and KLM have been able to finance their operations and capital needs in part because their main assets, aircraft, have been attractive as security to lenders and other financiers. However, there can be no assurance that aircraft or any other assets held by Air France or KLM will continue to provide attractive security for lenders. Any prolonged restriction on the ability to raise money in the market in the future could adversely affect our ability to borrow, which could in turn have an adverse impact on its business and results of operations. Unfavorable outcomes of lawsuits may weaken our liquidity position. We are involved in various legal actions for which we have not recorded provisions because management believes they are without merit. Unfavorable outcomes of such actions could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and weaken our liquidity position. See “Item 4: Information on the Company—Business—Legal Proceedings”. High labor costs or an inability to conclude future collective labor agreements on satisfactory terms may result in a decrease in our operating margins. Wage rates have a significant effect on our operating results. Our profitability could suffer if it is not able to conclude future collective labor agreements on satisfactory terms with our employees. For the year ended March 31, 2006, labor costs represented 31% of our operating expenses. 13 Table of Contents Labor disruptions could result in reduced revenues and increased costs. If we are not able in the future to renew our collective labor agreements or other key agreements with our employees in a satisfactory way, or if any strike, work stoppage or work slowdown occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Disruption of air traffic control and other airport services may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations rely upon the services of third parties such as those provided by air traffic controllers and public safety officials, and we use the services of third parties such as handling and private security agents in the ordinary course of its business. We have no direct control over the activities of these third parties and could be directly affected by any change, interruption or termination of their activities. Any interruption in the normal business activities of these third parties, such as operational malfunctioning or a series of prolonged strikes, or an increase in airport or rental fees charged in connection with the use of these services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The closure of terminal 2E at Roissy-CDG may affect our existing or future operations and result in additional costs. Air France terminated operations in terminal 2E at Roissy-CDG on May 23, 2004, following the collapse of part of the roof of the newly built terminal. Terminal 2E was constructed and is owned by Aéroports de Paris (ADP) and was used primarily for Air France long- and medium-haul flights. Air France flights have been rerouted to the five other terminals at Roissy-CDG. Despite the unavailability of the facilities in terminal 2E, Air France has maintained its schedule as originally planned by relying on the remainder of the airport’s facilities. Certain Air France-KLM and SkyTeam flights have been reassigned to other terminals and certain long-haul flight times have been revised to accommodate the longer time required for ground services such as check-in, boarding and connections. In spite of the diminished service offerings available at terminal 2E and the increased costs associated with reassigning flights to other terminals, we believe these events have had no significant impact on our results of operations. Although we are currently seeking compensation from the entities or persons liable for damages and the supplemental costs incurred in connection with the collapse of terminal 2E, there can be no guarantee that all of these costs will be reimbursed. Additionally, there can be no guarantee that Roissy-CDG’s remaining facilities will be sufficient to accommodate our regularly scheduled flights or that we will be able to maintain its flight schedule without incurring additional costs due to the rerouting of passengers or corresponding delays, which could have an adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have been obliged to adopt new accounting standards that have materially changed our financial statements and financial reporting. We currently prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the E.U., pursuant to E.U. regulations that require that all companies whose securities are listed in the European Union, including Air France-KLM, to apply IFRS in preparing their financial statements for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2005. We prepare a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity, net income and certain other disclosures to U.S. GAAP. Applying IFRS as adopted by the E.U. to our financial statements has had an effect on a number of areas, including, among others, accounting for share-based compensation, goodwill and intangible assets, asset depreciation and classification of balance sheet positions as debt or equity. Principal differences in accounting methods between IFRS and French GAAP relate particularly to the first application of international financial information standards (IFRS 1), deferred taxes (IAS 12), investments in associates (IAS 28), consolidation and 14 Table of Contents separate financial statements (IAS 27) and business combinations (IFRS 3). Because our financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the E.U. differ from financial statements prepared in accordance with French GAAP, the methods used by the financial community to assess our financial performance and value publicly-traded securities, such as price-to-earnings ratios and debts-to-equity ratios, could be affected. Risks Related to our Securities Substantial sales of our shares or ADSs, or the issuance by us of equity-linked securities, could cause the price of our shares, ADSs, warrants and ADWs to decline. The number of our shares available for sale or trading in the public markets has increased or may increase as a result of the exchange offer and the following other factors: • shares representing 14.1% of the share capital of Air France-KLM held in Air France-KLM savings plans on behalf of employee shareholders became eligible for sale from May 2004 by those employee shareholders. 15,396,727 of these shares remain eligible for sale; • in May 2004, 45,093,299 subscription warrants for new or existing shares were created to remunerate KLM shareholders, of which 2,682 have been exercised as of March 31, 2006 resulting in the purchase of 1,788 Air France-KLM shares and in 45,090,617 warrants still outstanding; and • on April 19, 2005, Air France completed an offering of €449,999,989.50 principal amount of 2.75% bonds due April 1, 2020 convertible into and exchangeable for new and/or existing shares of Air France-KLM. A total of 21,951,219 Air France-KLM shares may be issued upon conversion or exchange. The increase in the number of our shares eligible for sale or trading, or the perception that sales may occur, could adversely affect the market or the market price of our shares, ADSs, warrants and ADWs. In addition, we may in the future issue equity-linked securities to finance its operations. This could adversely affect the market for, or the market price of, our shares, ADSs, warrants and ADWs. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the dollar and the euro may reduce the dollar market value of our ADSs as well as the dollar value of any dividends that we may pay. We will pay any cash dividends on our shares in euro, and the ADS depositary will convert such euro amounts into dollars to pay any dividends on the ADSs. Exchange rate movements will affect the dollar value of these dividends as well as any other dollar distributions paid to you if you hold ADSs. Exchange rate movements will also affect the market value of our ADSs and ADWs. Our interest in KLM may be diluted. The State of the Netherlands may exercise an option to acquire the number of KLM preference shares B necessary to provide the State of the Netherlands with 50.1% of the capital stock and voting rights of KLM, irrespective of the total issued share capital of KLM at any given moment in the event that any key country served by KLM restricts, terminates or will restrict or terminate KLM’s operation of scheduled air services because of that country’s view that: • a substantial part of the share capital of KLM is not demonstrably Dutch-owned, or • KLM is not effectively controlled by Dutch nationals. If the State of the Netherlands exercises this option, it will have the power, acting alone, to influence matters submitted for a vote of KLM shareholders. The amended state option has an initial duration of three years from 15 Table of Contents completion of the exchange offer but may be renewed by the State of the Netherlands up to three times for periods of 12 months each. The State of the Netherlands agreed to exercise the voting rights attached to the preference shares B acquired upon any exercise of the amended state option in accordance with the best interests of KLM and the best interests of Air France-KLM and our shareholders. However, any determination made by the State of the Netherlands as to the best interests of KLM, us and our shareholders might not correspond to our views or the views of our shareholders as to such interests. In addition, any dispute involving the State of the Netherlands, France and a government of a key country served by KLM under the relevant bilateral treaty over Dutch ownership or under certain bilateral treaties, effective control of KLM, could divert management attention and have an impact on our business. Because we are subject to nationality-based ownership and control restrictions, non-European Union nationals, and in some cases, European Union nationals, may be compelled to sell our shares or ADSs. To hold a license and an Air Operator Certificate allowing them to operate scheduled airline services on European routes, European airlines, including Air France and KLM, must at all times be majority owned and effectively controlled by E.U. nationals. In addition, applicable bilateral air traffic treaties with non-E.U. countries typically require that the air carriers designated by each country to operate the routes covered by the relevant bilateral treaty be substantially- or majority-owned and effectively controlled by that country or its nationals. Either country that is a party to a bilateral treaty may withdraw or amend the terms and conditions of the operating authorization of an air carrier designated by the other country if the air carrier does not satisfy these ownership and control requirements. Our interest in KLM may be diluted as a consequence of the application of these requirements to KLM as explained in this annual report under the heading “—Risks Related to the Business—Our interest in KLM may be diluted”. In addition, in order to protect our authority to operate airline services in Europe and under relevant bilateral treaties, our articles of association, and the deposit agreement relating to our ADSs, contain compulsory transfer provisions whereby non-E.U. and, in certain cases, E.U. nationals, may be forced to sell all or part of their Air France-KLM shares or ADSs if 45% or more of our share capital or voting rights are held, directly or indirectly, by non-French nationals. See “Item 10: Additional Information—Form and Holding of Shares—Compulsory Transfer of Shares” and “Item 10: Additional Information—American Depositary Shares—Limitations on the Right to Own, Transfer or Vote Air France-KLM ADSs; Compulsory Transfer of Air France-KLM Shares”. If you fail to comply with the notification requirements under French law and our articles of association, you could be deprived of some or all of your voting rights and be subject to a fine. Holders of our shares, including shares represented by ADSs, are subject to various notification requirements under our articles of association and French law. Under the French Commercial Code, any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others that becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 33.3%, 50%, 66.6%, 90% or 95% of our outstanding shares or voting rights must notify Air France-KLM and the French Authority for Financial Markets within five trading days of crossing any of these thresholds. This notification requirement also applies to shareholders when their holding of shares or voting rights falls below any of these thresholds. If you fail to comply with these notification requirements, your shares, including shares represented by ADSs, in excess of the relevant notification threshold may be deprived of voting rights for up to two years on the demand of any shareholder or group of shareholders holding a minimum of 5% of our outstanding shares or voting rights. In addition, all or part of your voting rights may be suspended for up to five years by a French commercial court, at the request of the chairman of our board of directors, any Air France-KLM shareholder or the French Authority for Financial Markets (the “AMF”), and you may be subject to a fine of €18,000. 16 Table of Contents In addition, under our articles of association, any individual or entity, acting alone or in concert with others that becomes the owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 0.5% of our outstanding shares or voting rights or a multiple thereof up to 50% must notify us within 15 calendar days of crossing the ownership threshold. If you fail to comply with this notification requirement, your shares, including shares represented by ADSs, may be deprived of voting rights for up to two years on the demand of any one or more shareholders owning, together, at least 0.5% of our share capital. For a more detailed description of these notification requirements, see “Item 10: Additional Information—Requirements Applicable to Shareholdings Exceeding Certain Percentages” and “Item 10: Additional Information—American Depositary Shares—Requirements Applicable to Shareholders Exceeding Certain Percentages”. Holders of our ADSs may have difficulty exercising some of their rights as shareholders. The ADS depositary may use discretion to take action or exercise rights on behalf of each ADS holder in a number of circumstances, including the exercise of rights that holders of ADSs may have to subscribe for or acquire new Air France-KLM shares. In addition, holders of our ADSs will only be able to exercise their voting rights by instructing the ADS depositary to vote on their behalf, and, therefore, the process for exercising voting rights will take longer for holders of our ADSs than for holders of our shares. For this reason, a deadline will be set by the ADS depositary by which it must receive voting instructions from all our ADS holders. The ADS depositary will not exercise voting rights with regard to any ADSs for which it does not receive voting instructions by the deadline. See “Item 10: Additional Information—American Depositary Shares—Voting Rights”. Under French law, holders of our securities have limited rights to call shareholders’ meetings or to submit shareholder proposals, which could adversely affect their ability to participate in our governance. In general, under French law, only our board of directors may call a meeting of shareholders. In limited circumstances, a shareholders’ meeting may be called by an attorney appointed by a court at the request of the holders of 5% or more of Air France-KLM’s capital stock or a duly qualified group of shareholders who have held their shares in registered form for at least two years and together hold at least 1% of Air France-KLM’s voting rights. In addition, only shareholders or groups of shareholders representing at least 5% of Air France’s share capital may submit proposed resolutions for meetings of shareholders. As a result, the ability of holders of our shares to participate in and influence our governance is limited. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to file less information with the SEC, which may limit the information available to holders of our securities. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from rules under the Exchange Act that impose certain disclosure and procedural requirements for the solicitation of proxies for shareholder meetings. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short-swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and related rules with respect to their purchases and sales of our securities. Moreover, we are not required to file periodic reports with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act are required to file their reports. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about Air France-KLM than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the United States. Our ADS and ordinary share price could be volatile and could drop unexpectedly and investors may not be able to sell their ADRs or ordinary shares at or above the price they paid. The price at which our ADSs and ordinary shares trade may be influenced by a large number of factors, some of which will be related to the airline industry and equity markets generally. As a result of these factors, 17 Table of Contents investors may not be able to resell their ADSs or ordinary shares at or above the price which they paid for them. In particular, the following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares: • Announcements by us of intended acquisitions, disposals or financings or speculation about such acquisitions, disposals or financings; • Sales of blocks of our shares by significant shareholders; • Potential litigation involving us or the airline industry generally; • Changes in recommendations by securities research analysts; • Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and fuel prices; • The performance of other companies in the airline sector; • Regulatory developments in the principal markets in which we operate; • International political and economic conditions, including the effects of terrorist attacks, military operations and other developments stemming from such events and the uncertainty related to these developments; and • General economic and market conditions. 18 Table of Contents 