ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we are faced with. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks of dependence on customers who represent more than 10% of net revenues. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from sales of application platform solutions directly to EMC and Tektronix and our revenues may decline significantly if these customers reduce, cancel or delay purchases of our application platform services, or terminate or curtail their relationships with us. For the years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, sales to EMC, our largest customer, accounted for 59%, 51% and 35%, of our total net revenues, respectively. These sales are primarily attributable to a limited number of products pursuant to non-exclusive contracts. In fiscal year 2009, we won new business to provide additional products to EMC. Gross margins as a percentage of net revenues associated with EMC decreased as this new business ramped up. To the extent that our sales associated with EMC increase as a percentage of our total net revenues, our overall gross margin percentage may decrease. For the years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, sales to Tektronix, our second largest customer, accounted for 11%, 20% and 13%, of our total net revenues, respectively. These sales are primarily attributable to a limited number of products pursuant to a non-exclusive contract. The nature of the products we sell to Tektronix is largely project driven; thus, our sales to Tektronix are subject to volatility from period to period. Upon completion of their projects, there is no assurance we will sell products to Tektronix for any new projects. We have limited visibility into their future projects. If EMC or Tektronix do not require our application platform solutions and services for their future projects, our sales to these customers would decline and our operating results would be harmed. Accordingly, the success of our business will depend, to some degree, on these customers' willingness to continue to utilize our application platform solutions in their existing and future products. Our financial success is dependent upon the future success of the application platform solutions we sell to these customers and the continued growth of these customers, whose industries have a history of rapid technological change, short product lifecycles, consolidation and pricing and margin pressures. These customers have the right to enter into agreements with alternative suppliers for the application platform solutions we provide or for portions of those solutions or for similar products, are not obligated to purchase any minimum quantity of products from us and may choose to stop purchasing from us at any time, with or without cause. For example, during the quarter ended September 30, 2011, EMC began dual sourcing the integration of one of their product lines. Our sales associated with the portion of the EMC product being sourced away from us had an annualized run rate of approximately $40 million at the time of the dual-sourcing transition. A significant reduction in sales to these customers, or significant pricing and additional margin pressures exerted on us by these customers, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if these customers delay or cancel purchases of our application platform solutions, as a result of dissatisfaction or otherwise, our operating results would be harmed and we may be unable to accurately predict revenues, profitability and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Risks related to business strategy. Our future success is dependent upon our ability to generate significant revenues from application platform solution relationships. Our sales are derived under an indirect sales model. We work with our customers to design an application platform branded with their name. The customers then perform all of the selling and marketing efforts related to sales of their branded appliance. There are multiple risks associated with our strategy including: •our reliance on our customers to perform all of the selling and marketing efforts associated with further sales of the application platform solution we develop with them; •a significant reliance on our customers' application software products, which could be technologically inferior to competitive products and result in limitations on our application platform sales, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer; •our customers will most likely continue selling their software products as separate products in addition to selling them in the form of an application platform, which will require us to effectively communicate the benefits of delivering their software in the form of an application platform; •continued consolidation within the data storage, network security and communications industries that results in existing customers being acquired by other companies; •our ability to leverage strategic relationships to obtain new sales leads; •our ability to provide our customers with high quality application platform solutions at competitive prices; •there is no guarantee that design wins will result in actual orders or sales. A "design win" occurs when a new customer or a separate division within an existing customer notifies us that we have been selected to integrate the customer's application. There can be delays of several months or more between the design win and when a customer initiates actual orders. The design win may never result in actual orders or sales. Further, if the customer's plans change, we may commit significant resources to design wins that do not result in actual orders; and •the expenditure of significant product design and engineering costs, which if not recovered through application platform sales could negatively affect our operating results. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to establish relationships with new customers while expanding sales within our existing customer base. We have begun to pursue (and in some cases won) large opportunities which we expect to have a more significant impact on our net revenues. We expect that these larger opportunities can be leveraged over our existing infrastructure without requiring us to incur significant additional operating costs. If we are unsuccessful in winning larger opportunities we may have to pursue smaller opportunities. These smaller opportunities will have less of an impact on our revenue growth and may not be leveraged as effectively over our existing infrastructure, which could require us to increase our infrastructure and associated operating costs, which would negatively impact our operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to effectively create and market value-added services for our customers. We believe our success will depend on our ability to create and market value-added services for current and prospective customers. We believe that our services are a key competitive differentiation point and an important element of the total solution we offer. These services are offered to ease the 12 Table of Contents integration of applications into an end-user's network, improve application integrity and security, ensure longer application uptimes, automate the management of deployed applications, and potentially create new customer revenue streams. If our current and prospective customers do not find the current services we offer to be of value to them or their end users, they may decide to perform these services in-house or we may lose their business to competitors. We believe that we must continue to effectively identify and create new service offerings to remain competitive, as well as effectively market any new service offerings to current and prospective customers. If we are unsuccessful in identifying, developing and marketing any new services that our current and prospective customers perceive to be of value to them or their end users, they may decide to perform these services in-house or we may lose their business to competitors If this were to occur, our revenues and operating results would be adversely impacted. Our business could be harmed if we fail to adequately integrate new technologies into our application platform solutions and services or if we invest in technologies that do not result in the desired effects on our current and/or future product offerings. As part of our strategy, we review opportunities to incorporate products and technologies that could be required in order to add new customers, retain existing customers, expand the breadth of product offerings or enhance our technical capabilities. Investing in new technologies presents numerous risks, including: •we may experience difficulties integrating new technologies into our current or future application platform solutions; •our new application platform solutions may be delayed because selected new technologies themselves are delayed or have defects and/or performance limitations; •we may incorporate technologies that do not result in the desired improvements to our current and/or future application platform solutions and services; •we may incorporate new technologies that either may not be desired by our customers or may not be compatible with our customers' existing technology; •new technologies are unproven and could contain latent defects, which could result in high product failure rates; and •we could find that the new application platform solutions and/or technologies that we choose to incorporate into our application platform solutions are technologically inferior to those utilized by our competitors. If we are unable to adequately integrate new technologies into our application platform solutions and services or if we invest in technologies that do not result in the desired effects on our current and/or future application platform solutions and services, our business could be harmed and operating results could suffer. Risks related to the application platform markets. If application platforms are not increasingly adopted as a solution to meet a significant portion of companies' software application needs, the market for application platform solutions may not grow, which could negatively impact our revenues. We expect that all of our future revenues will come from sales of application platform solutions and related services. As a result, we are substantially dependent on the growing use of application platforms to meet businesses' software application needs. Our revenues may not grow and the market price of our common stock could decline if the application platform market does not grow as rapidly as we expect. 13 Table of Contents Our expectations for the growth of the application platform market may not be fulfilled if end users continue to use general-purpose servers or proprietary platforms. The role of our application platform solutions could, for example, be limited if general-purpose servers or proprietary platforms out-perform application platforms, provide more capabilities and/or flexibility than application platforms or are offered at a lower cost. This could force us to lower the prices of our application platform solutions or could result in fewer sales of these products, which would negatively impact our revenues and decrease our gross margins. To an extent, the application platform market is trending towards virtual application platforms and services and cloud computing. A virtual application platform is a software solution, comprised of one or more virtual machines that is packaged, maintained, updated, and managed as a unit. Cloud computing is a web-based concept, whereby vendors provide customers with a virtual (i.e. web-based) network appliance infrastructure, reducing the customer's need to purchase appliance hardware. While we currently provide a limited number of virtual application platform solutions, our revenues and operating results may be negatively impacted if current and prospective customers move toward using virtual or cloud-based platforms provided by other vendors. The application platform solutions and services that we sell are subject to rapid technological change and our sales will suffer if these solutions are rendered obsolete by new technologies. The markets we serve are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, potentially short product lifecycles, changes in customer demands and evolving industry standards. In the application platform market, we attempt to mitigate these risks by utilizing standards-based hardware platforms and by maintaining an adequate knowledge base of available technologies. However, the application platform solutions that we sell could be rendered obsolete if products based on new technologies are introduced or new industry standards emerge and we are not able to incorporate these technological changes into our application platform solutions. In addition, we depend on third parties for the base hardware of our application platforms and we are at risk if these third parties do not integrate new technologies. Releasing new products and services prematurely may result in quality problems, and delays may result in loss of customer confidence and market share. We may be unable to design new application platform solutions and services or achieve and maintain market acceptance of them once they have come to market. Furthermore, when we do release new or enhanced products and services, we may be unable to manage the transition from the older products and services to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excessive inventories of older products and deliver enough new products and services to meet customer demand. To remain competitive in the application platform market, we must successfully identify new product opportunities and partners and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Our failure to select the appropriate partners and keep pace with rapid industry, technology or market changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks related to financial results. We have a history of losses and may continue to experience losses in the future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, we have incurred significant net losses and could incur net losses in the future. At September 30, 2011 and September 30, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $103 million and $139 million, respectively. Although we have been profitable for the past two fiscal years, this profitability was primarily the result of our increased revenues while we controlled spending. This increase in our revenues in fiscal years 2010 and 2011 was significantly impacted by our increased sales volumes with EMC and Tektronix. These customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum 14 Table of Contents quantity of application platform services from us and may choose to stop purchasing from us at any time, with or without cause. If either of these customers were to significantly reduce purchases of our application platforms solutions or terminate their relationships with us our revenues and operating results would be harmed and our profitability may deteriorate or we may no longer be profitable. If we do not maintain or grow profitability, the market price for our common stock may decline. Even if we maintain or grow profitability there can be no guarantee that our stock price will increase. If the application platform solutions and services that we sell become more commoditized and competition in the data storage, network security, and communications markets continues to increase, then our gross margin as a percentage of net revenues may decrease and our operating results may suffer. Products and services in the data storage, network security, and communications markets may be subject to further commoditization as these industries continue to mature and other businesses introduce additional competing products and services. Our gross margin as a percentage of revenues for our application platform solutions and services may decrease in response to changes in our product mix, competitive pricing pressures, or new product introductions into these markets. If we are unable to offset decreases in our gross margins as a percentage of revenues by increasing our sales volumes, or by decreasing our product costs, operating results will decline. We expect that our high volume, low margin products will continue to grow relative to our low volume, high margin products. This change in the mix of sales of our application platform solutions would adversely affect our gross margin as a percentage of new revenues. To maintain our gross margins, we also must continue to reduce the manufacturing cost of our application platform solutions. Our efforts to produce higher margin application platform solutions, continue to improve our application platform solutions and produce new application platform solutions may make it difficult to reduce our manufacturing cost per product. If we fail to respond adequately to pricing pressures, to competitive application platform solutions with improved performance or to developments with respect to the other factors on which we compete, we could lose customers or orders and may lose new customer opportunities. If we are unable to offset decreases in the prices we are able to charge our customers and/or our gross margin percentage with increased sales volumes, our business will suffer. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may also fluctuate for various reasons, which could cause our operating results to fall below expectations and thus impact the market price of our common stock. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We base our expected quarterly revenues on forecasts received from our customers, however, none of our customers are obligated to purchase any quantity of our application platform solutions in the future nor are they obligated to meet forecasts of their product needs. Our operating expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues and gross margins, which are partially dependent on our customers' ability to accurately forecast and communicate their future product needs. If revenues or gross margins in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, operating results could suffer and the market price of our common stock could decline. Factors affecting quarterly operating results include: •the availability and/or price of products from suppliers; •the degree to which our customers are successful in reselling application platform solutions to their end customers; •our customers' consumption of their existing inventories of our application platform solutions; •the variability of orders we receive from customers who have project-based businesses, especially in the communications market; 15 Table of Contents •the loss of key suppliers or customers; •the product mix of our sales; •the timing of new product introductions by our customers; •price competition; •the timing of engineering projects; and •changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing if there is a material adverse change in our business. In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to provide for a line of credit. We view this line of credit as a source of available liquidity to fund fluctuations in our working capital requirements. This facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. However, if we wish to borrow under this facility in the future, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations. As a result of the industry-wide hard drive supply shortage, we have accelerated our purchasing of materials in an effort to meet future demand; however, this may impact our working capital requirements which may require us to draw on our line of credit facility to maintain our liquidity. In addition, this line of credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank expires on March 31, 2012. After that, we may need to secure new financing to continue funding fluctuations in our working capital requirements. However, we may not be able to secure new financing, or financing on favorable terms, if we experience an adverse change in our business. As of the date of issuance of these financial statements, we had $10 million in available credit on this facility as a result of the outstanding $8 million letter of credit. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our operating results could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements, including those related to: •collectibility of accounts receivable; •inventory write-downs; •stock-based compensation; •valuation of intangible assets; •warranty reserves; •our ability to realize deferred tax assets; and •accruals for loss contingencies. 16 Table of Contents We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these and other estimates if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. An intangible asset represents a portion of our assets, and any impairment of the intangible asset would adversely impact our operating results. At September 30, 2011, the carrying value of our intangible asset, which consists of customer relationships associated with an acquisition we completed in fiscal year 2008, was approximately $5.2 million, net of accumulated amortization. We will continue to incur non-cash charges relating to the amortization of our intangible asset over its remaining useful life. Future determinations of significant write-offs of the intangible asset resulting from an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of the intangible asset could have a significant impact on our operating results and affect our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Although we do not believe that any impairment of the intangible asset exists at this time, in the event that any indicators of possible impairment exist, we may record charges which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Such indicators include, but are not limited to, a worsening in customer attrition rates compared to historical attrition rates, or lower than initially anticipated cash flows associated with customer relationships. Risks related to competition. Competition in the application platform market is significant and if we fail to compete effectively, our financial results will suffer. In the application platform market, we face significant competition from a number of different types of companies. Our competitors include companies who market general-purpose servers, server virtualization software, specific-purpose servers and application platforms as well as companies that sell custom integration services utilizing hardware produced by other companies. Many of these companies are larger than we are and have greater financial resources and name recognition than we do, as well as significant distribution capabilities and larger, more established service organizations to support their products. Our larger competitors may be able to leverage their existing resources, including their extensive distribution capabilities and service organizations, to provide a wider offering of products and services and higher levels of support on a more cost-effective basis than we can. We expect competition in the application platform market to increase significantly as more companies enter the market and as our existing competitors continue to improve the performance of their current application platform solutions and to introduce new application platform solutions and technologies. Such increased competition could adversely affect sales of our current and future products. In addition, competing companies may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive terms to customers than we can. If our competitors provide lower cost products with greater functionality or support than our application platform solutions, or if some of their products are comparable to ours and are offered as part of a range of products that is broader than ours, our application platform solutions could become undesirable. Even if the functionality of competing products is equivalent to ours, we face a risk that a significant number of customers would elect to pay a premium for similar functionality from a larger vendor rather than purchase products from us. We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competition by offering a wide variety of software integration, branding, supply-chain management, engineering, support, logistics and fulfillment services. If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competition, we may be forced to offer price reductions to maintain certain 17 Table of Contents customers. As a result, our revenues may not increase and may decline, and our gross margins may decline. Furthermore, increased competition could lead to higher selling expenses which would negatively affect our business and future operating results. We may begin to compete directly with our technology partners as we continue to pursue higher volume opportunities. If we fail to differentiate ourselves from, and compete with our technology partners effectively, our growth may be limited. We believe our future success will depend on our ability to win new business with larger customers. Historically, we pursued primarily small to medium-sized companies which may not have had the design, integration, and logistics capabilities that we offer to our customers. The competition for these customers was primarily limited to integrators similar in size and resources to us. As we pursue larger opportunities, we will be competing with companies larger than us and that have more resources. Additionally, as we continue to pursue high volume opportunities, future customers may not require the additional services that we offer and may opt to purchase their platforms directly from our technology partners. In some cases, we may begin to compete with some of our larger technology partners who also perform integration services. These larger technology partners typically have lower costs of materials, which would enable them to provide a buyer with a lower cost alternative than we would be able to offer. If we fail to provide buyers with competitive solutions to those offered by our technology partners or effectively market our service offerings to these larger prospective customers, our growth may be limited. Risks related to marketing and sales efforts and customer service. We need to effectively manage our sales and marketing operations to increase market awareness and sales of our application platform solutions and to promote our brand recognition. If we fail to do so, our growth will be limited. Although we currently have a relatively small sales and marketing organization, we must continue to increase market awareness and sales of our application platform solutions and services and promote our brand in the marketplace. We believe that to compete successfully we will need OEMs and ISVs to recognize us as a top-tier provider of application platform solutions and services. If we are unable to increase market awareness and promote ourselves as a leading provider of application platform solutions with our available resources, we may be unable to develop new customer relationships or expand our application platform solution and service offerings at existing customers. If we are unable to effectively manage our customer service and support activities, we may not be able to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. We need to effectively manage our customer support operations to ensure that we maintain good relationships with our customers. We believe that providing a level of high quality customer support will be a key differentiator for our product offerings and may require more technically qualified staff which could be more costly. If we are unable to provide this higher level of service we may be unable to successfully attract and retain customers. If our customer support organization is unsuccessful in maintaining good customer relationships, we may lose customers to our competitors and our reputation in the market could be damaged. As a result, we may lose revenues and our business could suffer. Furthermore, the costs of providing this service could be higher than we expect, which could adversely affect our operating results. 18 Table of Contents Risks related to product manufacturing. Our revenues and operating results could be harmed as a result of the recent flooding in Thailand if we are unsuccessful in meeting customer demand due to hard drive supply chain interruptions. We are experiencing industry-wide disruptions to the hard drive supply chain as a result of the recent flooding in Thailand. Although we are working closely with our hard drive suppliers to mitigate the impact on our customers' forecasts, we may not be successful in finding availability to meet all our customers' future demand, which may impact our results of operations in the near term. If we are successful in purchasing the required amount of hard drives, we expect that there will be a short-term impact on our cash balance as we increase our inventory levels. To the extent that hard drive prices increase as a result of the increased supply pressures, we expect to recover these increased costs from our customers; however, we may be unsuccessful in recovering these costs from our customers, which would have an adverse affect on our product margins and results of operations in the near term. Although we believe we have secured sufficient quantities of material to meet most of our customers demand for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we are anticipating more significant shortages in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 as the supply chain will more than likely run short of industry demand. As such, our results of operations in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 may be impacted as a result of this supply chain shortage; however, we view this as a short term interruption as we expect any unfulfilled demand will more than likely carry into future periods. Our dependence on sole source and limited source suppliers for key application platform components makes us susceptible to supply shortages and potential quality issues that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, or at all, and could result in lost sales and customers. We depend upon single source and limited source suppliers for our industry standard processors, main logic boards, telephony boards, disk drives, hardware platforms and power supplies as well as certain of our chassis and sheet metal parts. Additionally, we depend on limited sources to supply certain other industry standard and customized components. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, shortages of or difficulties in acquiring components in the quantities and of the quality needed to produce our application platform solutions. Shortages in supply or quality issues related to these key components for an extended time would cause delays in the production of our application platform solutions, prevent us from satisfying our contractual obligations and meeting customer expectations, and result in lost sales and customers. If we are unable to buy components in the quantities and of the quality that we need on a timely basis or at acceptable prices, we will not be able to manufacture and deliver our application platform solutions on a timely or cost effective basis to our customers, and our competitive position, reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If we are able to secure other sources of supply for such components, our costs to purchase such components could increase, which would negatively impact our gross margins. Tighter management of inventories across global supply chains may lead to longer lead times for our purchases of certain inventory components. If we are unable to manage our supply chain and maintain sufficient inventories to meet customer demand, this could result in lost sales and customers. Due largely to the continued economic downturn, we have experienced tighter management of inventories across our supply chain, resulting in longer lead times to obtain inventory components from our vendors. To a significant degree, we plan our purchasing of inventory components based on forecasts of future demand from our customers. If actual order volumes from our customers exceed those forecasts, we may experience supply depletions or shortages. In some cases, this may lead to delays in our deliveries of products to our customers due to the long lead times required to obtain new supplies of certain inventory components. In other cases, this may cause our customers to cancel their 19 Table of Contents orders with us. These factors could adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause certain customers to seek other sources of product supply. Also, we may purchase larger quantities of certain inventory components in order to mitigate the risks described above. Such inventory may later become excess or obsolete, which would result in higher than expected costs to write down inventory to its net realizable value. If we do not accurately forecast our application platform materials requirements, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We use rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our application platform component requirements. Lead times for materials and components that we order may change significantly depending on variables such as specific supplier requirements, contract terms and current market demand for those components. In addition, a variety of factors, including the timing of product releases, potential delays or cancellations of orders, the timing of large orders and the unproven acceptance of new products in the market make it difficult to predict product orders. As a result, our materials requirement forecasts may not be accurate. If we overestimate our materials requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase costs and negatively impact our cash position. Our agreements with certain customers provide us with protections related to inventory purchased in accordance with the terms of these agreements; however, these protections may not be sufficient to prevent certain losses as a result of excess or obsolete inventory. If we underestimate our materials requirements, we may have inadequate inventory which could interrupt our manufacturing and delay delivery of our application platform solutions to customers, resulting in a loss of sales or customers. Any of these occurrences would negatively impact our business and operating results. If our application platform solutions fail to perform properly and conform to specifications, our customers may demand refunds, assert claims for damages or terminate existing relationships with us, and our reputation and operating results may suffer materially. As application platform solutions are complex, they may contain errors that can be detected at any point in a product's lifecycle. If flaws in design, production, assembly or testing of our application platform solutions (by us or our suppliers) were to occur, we could experience a rate of failure in our application platform solutions that could result in substantial repair, replacement or service costs and potential damage to our reputation. In addition, because our solutions are combined with products from other vendors, should problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities, control of material and manufacturing quality and costs, and product testing are critical factors in our future growth. There can be no assurance that our efforts to monitor, develop, modify and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes for our application platform solutions will be sufficient to permit us to avoid a rate of failure in our application platform solutions that results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs or potential damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the past, we have discovered errors in some of our application platform solutions and have experienced delays in the shipment of our application platform solutions during the period required to correct these errors or we have had to replace defective products that were already shipped. Errors in our application platform solutions may be found in the future and any of these errors could be significant. Significant errors, including those discussed above, may result in: •the loss of or delay in market acceptance and sales of our application platform solutions; •diversion of engineering resources; •increased manufacturing costs; 20 Table of Contents •the loss of customers; •injury to our reputation and other customer relations problems; and •increased maintenance and warranty costs. Any of these problems could harm our business and future operating results. Product errors or delays could be material, including any product errors or delays associated with the introduction of new products or versions of existing products. If our application platform solutions fail to conform to warranted specifications, customers could demand a refund for the purchase price and assert claims for damages. Moreover, because our application platform solutions may be used in connection with critical computing systems services, including providing security to protect valuable information, we may receive significant liability claims if they do not work properly. While our agreements with customers typically contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to liability claims, these limitations do not preclude all potential claims. Liability claims could exceed our insurance coverage and require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any claims for damages, even if unsuccessful, could seriously damage our reputation and business. Other risks related to our business. If the market price of our common stock is not quoted on a national exchange, our ability to raise future capital may be hindered and the market price of our common stock may be negatively impacted. At certain times in the past, the market price of our common stock has been less than $1.00 per share. Recently our stock price has been trading at market prices around $1.00. If we are unable to meet the stock price listing requirements of NASDAQ, our common stock could be de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market, among other things, this could result in a number of negative implications, including reduced liquidity in our common stock as a result of the loss of market efficiencies associated with NASDAQ and the loss of federal preemption of state securities laws, as well as the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and greater difficulty in obtaining financing. As of the date of issuance of these financial statements, we were in compliance with all applicable requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our operating results would suffer if we, our customers, or other third-party technology providers from whom we license or purchase products from, were subject to an infringement claim that resulted in protracted litigation, the award of significant damages against us or the payment of substantial ongoing royalties. Substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the technology industry. Application platform solutions may be subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in the industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlap. In the past we have received claims from third parties that our application platform solutions infringed their intellectual property rights. We do not believe that our application platform solutions employ technology that infringes the proprietary rights of any third parties. We are also not aware of any claims made against any of our customers related to their infringement of the proprietary rights of other parties in relation to products that include our application platform solutions. Other parties may make claims against us or our customers that, with or without merit, could: •be time consuming for us to address; •require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements; 21 Table of Contents •result in costly litigation, including potential liability for damages; •divert our management's attention and resources; and •cause product shipment delays. In addition, other parties may make claims against our customers related to products that are incorporated into our application platform solutions. Our business could be adversely affected if such claims resulted in the inability of our customers to continue providing the infringing product. If we fail to retain and attract appropriate levels of qualified employees and members of senior management, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract highly skilled engineering, sales, marketing, customer service and managerial personnel. If we are unable to attract a sufficient number of qualified personnel, we may not be able to meet key objectives such as developing, upgrading, or enhancing our application platform solutions and services in a timely manner, which could negatively impact our business and could hinder any future growth. If any of our manufacturing locations were to experience a significant disruption in its operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of our operations. Our manufacturing facilities and headquarters are concentrated primarily in three locations. If the operations in any one facility were disrupted as a result of a natural disaster, fire, power or other utility outage, work stoppage or other similar event, our business could be seriously harmed for a period of at least one quarter as a result of interruptions or delays in our manufacturing, engineering, or post-sales support operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative market reaction. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. As a result, we have incurred expenses and have devoted additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. The market price for our common stock may be particularly volatile, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. During the year ended September 30, 2011, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a low of $0.97 to a high of $2.33 and during fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a low of $1.07 to a high of $3.45. The market for technology and micro-cap stocks has been extremely volatile and frequently reaches levels that bear no relationship to the past or present operating performance of those companies. General economic conditions, such as recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations in the United States or abroad, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. Such litigation could result in substantial cost and a diversion of management's attention and resources. 22 Table of Contents Any decline in the market price of our common stock or negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, to complete future acquisitions of or investments in other businesses and to attract and retain qualified technical and sales and marketing personnel. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and, without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders, to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock. This preferred stock, if issued, might have preference over the rights of the holders of common stock and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The issuance of this preferred stock may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. We currently have no plans to issue preferred stock. In addition, provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our second amended and restated by-laws may deter an unsolicited offer to purchase us. These provisions, coupled with the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may delay or impede a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. For example, our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected at each annual meeting. These factors may further delay or prevent a change of control of our business. Class action lawsuits have been filed against us, our board of directors, our former chairman and certain of our executive officers and other lawsuits may be instituted against us from time to time. In December 2001, a class action lawsuit relating to our initial public offering was filed against us, our chairman, one of our executive officers and the underwriters of our initial public offering. For more information on lawsuits, see "Part I, Item 3—Legal Proceedings." We are currently attempting to settle the lawsuit filed against us related to our initial public offering. We are unable to predict the effects on our financial condition or business of the lawsuit related to our initial public offering or other lawsuits that may arise from time to time. While we maintain certain insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that claims against us will not result in substantial monetary damages in excess of such insurance coverage. This class action lawsuit, or any future lawsuits, could cause our director and officer insurance premiums to increase and could affect our ability to obtain director and officer insurance coverage, which would negatively affect our business. In addition, we have expended, and may in the future expend, significant resources to defend such claims. This class action lawsuit, or other similar lawsuits that may arise from time to time, could negatively impact both our financial condition and the market price of our common stock and could result in management devoting a substantial portion of their time to these lawsuits, which could adversely affect the operation of our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 