Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall. Risks Related to Our Business Prior to the fiscal year ended July 3, 2010, we had a history of large operating losses and we may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. We have historically incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations since our inception. As of July 3, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $1,079.6 million. Although we generated income of $11.0 million from continuing operations for the fiscal year ended July 3, 2010, we incurred losses from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008 of $25.8 million and $23.3 million, respectively. We may not be able to achieve profitability in any future periods. If we are unable to do so, we may need additional financing, which may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms or at all, to execute on our current or future business strategies. We may not be able to maintain current levels of gross margins. We may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins, to the extent that current economic uncertainty, changes in customer demand, or other factors, affects our overall revenue, and we are unable to adjust our expenses as necessary. We attempt to reduce our product costs and improve our product mix to offset price erosion expected in most product categories, but there is no assurance that we will be successful. Our gross margins can also be adversely impacted for reasons including, but not limited to, unfavorable production variances, increases in costs of input parts and materials, the timing of movements in our inventory balances, warranty costs and related returns, and possible exposure to inventory valuation reserves. Any failure to maintain, or improve, our gross margins will adversely affect our financial results, including our goal to achieve sustainable cash flow positive operations. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted by general economic and financial market conditions and such conditions may increase the other risks that affect our business. Over the past two years, the world’s financial markets have experienced significant turmoil, resulting in reductions in available credit, increased costs of credit, extreme volatility in security prices, potential changes to existing credit terms, rating downgrades of investments and reduced valuations of securities generally. In light of these economic conditions, many of our customers reduced their spending plans, leading them to draw down their existing inventory and reduce orders for optical components. While we have seen a short-term improvement in customer demand, and improvements in the economic conditions contributing to that improved customer demand, it is possible that economic conditions could experience further setbacks, and that these customers, or others, could as a result significantly reduce their capital expenditures, draw down their inventories, reduce production levels of existing products, defer introduction of new products or place orders and accept delivery for products for which they do not pay us due to their economic difficulties or other reasons. Prior to the recent improvement in customer demand, these actions had, and in future quarters could have, an adverse impact on our own revenues. In addition, the financial downturn affected the financial strength of certain of our customers, and could adversely affect others. In particular, in fiscal year 2009, we issued billings of $4.1 million for products that were shipped to Nortel Networks Corporation (“Nortel”) for which payment was not received prior to Nortel’s bankruptcy filing on January 14, 2009. As a result, the corresponding revenue was deferred, and therefore was not recognized as revenues 13 Table of Contents or accounts receivable in our consolidated financial statements at the time of such billings, as we determined that such amounts were not reasonably assured of collectability in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of July 3, 2010, the remaining uncollected contractual receivables from Nortel, from prior to its bankruptcy filing, totaled $2.7 million, which are not reflected in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In addition, our suppliers may also be adversely affected by economic conditions that may impact their ability to provide important components used in our manufacturing processes on a timely basis, or at all. These conditions could also result in reduced capital resources because of the potential lack of credit availability, higher costs of credit and the stretching of payables by creditors seeking to preserve their own cash resources. We are unable to predict the likely duration, severity and potential continuation of the recent disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries, but the longer the duration the greater the risks we face in operating our business. Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to evolving technologies and customer requirements. The market for telecommunications equipment is characterized by substantial capital investment and diverse and evolving technologies. For example, the market for optical components is currently characterized by a trend toward the adoption of pluggable components and tunable transmitters that do not require the customized interconnections of traditional fixed wavelength “gold box” devices and the increased integration of components on subsystems. Our ability to anticipate and respond to these and other changes in technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products will be significant factors in our ability to succeed. We expect that new technologies will continue to emerge as competition in the telecommunications industry increases and the need for higher and more cost efficient bandwidth expands. The introduction of new products embodying new technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products or products in development uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or unmarketable. The market for optical components continues to be characterized by excess capacity and intense price competition which has had, and may have, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There continues to be excess capacity for many optical components companies, intense price competition among optical component manufacturers and continued consolidation in the industry. As a result of this excess capacity and other industry factors, pricing pressure remains intense. The continued uncertainties in the optical telecommunications systems industry and the global economy make it difficult for us to anticipate revenue levels and therefore to make appropriate estimates and plans relating to cost management. Continued uncertain demand for optical components has had in the past, and may again have in the future, a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. Historically, we have generated most of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Our dependence on a limited number of customers is due to the fact that the optical telecommunications systems industry is dominated by a small number of large companies. These companies in turn depend primarily on a limited number of major telecommunications carrier customers to purchase their products that incorporate our optical components. For example, in the fiscal years ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, our three largest customers accounted for 29 percent, 38 percent and 38 percent of our revenues, respectively. Revenues from any of our major customers may fluctuate significantly in the future, which could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The majority of our long-term customer contracts do not commit customers to specified buying levels, and our customers may decrease, cancel or delay their buying levels at any time with little or no advance notice to us. The majority of our customers typically purchase our products pursuant to individual purchase orders or contracts that do not contain purchase commitments. Some customers provide us with their expected forecasts for our products several months in advance, but many of these customers may decrease, cancel or delay purchase orders already in place, and the impact of any such actions may be intensified given our dependence on a small number of large customers. If any of our major customers decrease, stop or delay purchasing our products for any reason, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Cancellation or delays of such orders may cause us to fail to achieve our short-term and long-term financial and operating goals and result in excess and obsolete inventory. We may make acquisitions that do not prove successful. From time to time we consider acquisitions of other businesses, assets or companies. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates at prices we consider appropriate. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully and satisfactorily negotiate the terms of the acquisition. Our management may not be able to effectively implement our acquisition plans and internal growth strategy simultaneously. We are also in an industry that is actively consolidating and there is no guarantee that we will successfully bid against third parties, including competitors, when we identify a critical target we want to acquire. The integration of acquisitions involves a number of risks and presents financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may have difficulty, and may incur unanticipated expenses related to, integrating management and personnel from these acquired entities with our management and personnel. Our failure to identify, consummate or integrate suitable acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We cannot readily predict the timing, size or success of our future acquisitions. Failure to successfully implement our acquisition plans could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Even successful acquisitions could have the effect of reducing our cash balances, diluting the ownership interests of existing stockholders or increasing our indebtedness. For example, our recent acquisition of Xtellus required an immediate issuance of a significant number of newly issued shares of our common stock and we may be required to issue a significant additional number of newly issued shares of our common stock in connection with the “value protection guarantee” provided to Xtellus shareholders in the acquisition. Acquisitions and divestitures could involve a number of other potential risks to our business, including the following, any of which could harm our business: • unanticipated costs and liabilities and unforeseen accounting charges; • delays and difficulties in delivery of products and services; • failure to effectively integrate or separate management information systems, personnel, research and development, marketing, sales and support operations; • loss of key employees; • economic dilution to gross and operating profit and earnings (loss) per share; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns and disruption of our ongoing business; • difficulty in maintaining controls and procedures; • uncertainty on the part of our existing customers, or the customers of an acquired company, about our ability to operate effectively after a transaction, and the potential loss of such customers; • damage to or loss of supply or partnership relationships; • declines in the revenue of the combined company; • failure to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of the acquisition or divestiture; and • failure to successfully further develop the combined, acquired or remaining technology, resulting in the impairment of amounts recorded as goodwill or other intangible assets. 15 Table of Contents We may not achieve, and/or sustain, our strategic objectives, anticipated synergies and cost savings and other expected benefits of our merger with Avanex, our acquisition of the high-power laser diodes business of Newport or our acquisitions of Xtellus or Mintera. We completed our merger with Avanex on April 27, 2009, our acquisition of the high-power laser diodes business of Newport on July 4, 2009, our acquisition of Xtellus on December 17, 2009, and our acquisition of Mintera on July 21, 2010. We believe we have achieved certain strategic and other financial and operating benefits as a result of some of these transactions, including, certain cost and performance synergies, and we expect additional strategic and other financial and operating benefits to accrue from certain of these transactions. However, we cannot predict with certainty which of these benefits, if any, will actually be achieved or the timing of any such benefits, or whether those benefits which have been achieved will be sustainable on a long-term basis. The following factors, among others, may prevent us from realizing these benefits: • the inability to increase product sales; • substantial demands on our management as a result of these transactions that may limit their time to attend to other operational, financial, business and strategic issues; • difficulty in: • the integration of operational, financial and administrative functions and systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is not implemented or delayed; • demonstrating to our customers that the transactions will not result in adverse changes in client service standards or business focus and helping our customers conduct business easily with us; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology, engineering and administrative infrastructures; • integrating product offerings; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively communicate our capabilities; • coordinating and integrating the manufacturing activities of our acquired businesses, including with respect to third-party manufacturers, and including executing a ramp of production capacity in South Korea and with our contract manufacturers to support the potential revenue demand for the WSS related products of Xtellus; and including managing the manufacturing activities of the laser diode business acquired from Newport while these activities are being transferred from Tucson, Arizona to Europe and Asia; • coordinating and integrating supply chains; • coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies with reduced cost; • preserving important relationships of our acquired businesses and resolving potential conflicts between business cultures; • coordinating the international activities of our acquired businesses; • unexpected liabilities associated with our acquired businesses or unanticipated costs related to the integrations; • the effect of tax laws due to increasing complexities of our global operating structure; and • employment law or regulations or other limitations in foreign jurisdictions that could have an impact on timing, amounts or costs of achieving expected synergies. Our integration with merged and acquired businesses has been and will continue to be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate these businesses in a timely manner, or at all, or that any of the anticipated benefits or our acquisition of these businesses 16 Table of Contents will be realized. Our failure to achieve the strategic objectives of our mergers and acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses and our other operating results and cash resources and could result in us not achieving the anticipated potential benefits of these transactions. In addition, we cannot assure you that the growth rate of the combined company will equal the historical growth rate experienced by any of the predecessors, including Bookham, Avanex, the high-power laser diodes business of Newport, Xtellus or Mintera. Sales of our products could decline if customer and/or supplier relationships are disrupted by our recent merger and acquisition activities. The customers of acquired or merged businesses, and/or of predecessor companies, may not continue their historical buying patterns. Any loss of design wins or significant delay or reduction in orders for the telecom, the high-power laser diodes, or the optical modules and components business’ products could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Customers may defer purchasing decisions as they evaluate the likelihood of successful integration of our products and our future product strategy, or consider purchasing products of our competitors. Customers may also seek to modify or terminate existing agreements, or prospective customers may delay entering into new agreements or purchasing our products or may decide not to purchase any products from us. In addition, by increasing the breadth of our business, the transactions may make it more difficult for us to enter into relationships, including customer relationships, with strategic partners, some of whom may view us as a more direct competitor than any of the predecessor and/or acquired and merged businesses as independent companies. Competitive positions in the market, including relative to suppliers who are also competitors, could change as a result of an acquisition or merger of a new business into Oclaro, and this could impact supplier relationships, including the terms under which we do business with such suppliers. As a result of the recent business combinations, we have become a larger and more geographically diverse organization, and if our management is unable to manage the combined organization efficiently, our operating results will suffer. As of July 3, 2010, we had approximately 2,865 employees in a total of 14 facilities around the world. As a result, we face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. Our inability to manage successfully the geographically more diverse (including from a cultural perspective) and substantially larger combined organization could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. We may not successfully transfer the wafer production from the Tucson, Arizona manufacturing operations we acquired from Newport to our European fabrication facilities and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Achieving the potential benefits of our July 4, 2009 acquisition from Newport of the laser diodes manufacturing operations in Tucson, Arizona will depend in substantial part on the successful transfer of those manufacturing operations to our European fabrication facilities. We face significant challenges in transferring these operations in a timely and efficient manner. As a result of certain of these challenges, our opportunities to increase revenues in the corresponding business were limited in the fiscal quarter ended July 3, 2010, and we expect these limitations to continue through the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. Some of the challenges involved in this transfer include: • transferring operations is placing substantial demands on our management that may limit their time to attend to other operational, financial and strategic issues; • it may take longer than anticipated to complete the transfer of wafer manufacturing operations from Tucson, Arizona to our European fabs, the results may not deliver desired yields and costs savings, any delay may cause us not to achieve expected synergies from leveraging our existing global manufacturing infrastructure, 17 Table of Contents and our ability to grow related revenues could be limited by the levels of inventory built to sustain customer demand during the period of transfer; • the costs of transferring manufacturing operations from Tucson, Arizona to our European fabs may exceed our current estimates; • delays in qualifying production of the laser diodes in our European fabs could cause disruption to our customers and have an adverse impact on our operating results; • we may experience difficulty in the integration of operational, financial and administrative functions and systems to permit effective management, and may experience a lack of control if such integration is not implemented or delayed; and • employment law or regulations or other limitations in foreign jurisdictions could have an impact on timing, amounts or costs of achieving expected synergies. Our products are complex and may take longer to develop than anticipated and we may not recognize revenues from new products until after long field testing and customer acceptance periods. Many of our new products must be tailored to customer specifications. As a result, we are developing new products and using new technologies in those products. For example, while we currently manufacture and sell discrete “gold box” technology, we expect that many of our sales of “gold box” technology will soon be replaced by pluggable modules. New products or modifications to existing products often take many quarters or even years to develop because of their complexity and because customer specifications sometimes change during the development cycle. We often incur substantial costs associated with the research and development and sales and marketing activities in connection with products that may be purchased long after we have incurred the costs associated with designing, creating and selling such products. In addition, due to the rapid technological changes in our market, a customer may cancel or modify a design project before we begin large-scale manufacture of the product and receive revenues from the customer. It is unlikely that we would be able to recover the expenses for cancelled or unutilized design projects. It is difficult to predict with any certainty, particularly in the present economic climate, the frequency with which customers will cancel or modify their projects, or the effect that any cancellation or modification would have on our results of operations. As a result of our global operations, our business is subject to currency fluctuations that have adversely affected our results of operations in recent quarters and may continue to do so in the future. Our financial results have been and will continue to be materially impacted by foreign currency fluctuations. At certain times in our history, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the U.K. pound sterling have had a major negative effect on our margins and our cash flow. Despite our change in domicile from the United Kingdom to the United States in 2004 and the transfer of our assembly and test operations from Paignton, U.K. to Shenzhen, China, a significant portion of our expenses are still denominated in U.K. pounds sterling and substantially all of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between these two currencies and, to a lesser extent, other currencies in which we collect revenues and/or pay expenses will continue to have a material effect on our operating results. From the end of our fiscal year ended June 27, 2009 to the end of our fiscal year ended July 3, 2010, the U.S. dollar appreciated 8 percent relative to the U.K. pound sterling, which favorably impacted our operating results for fiscal year 2010. If the U.S. dollar stays the same or depreciates relative to the U.K. pound sterling in the future, our future operating results may also be materially impacted. Additional exposure could also result should the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Chinese yuan, the South Korean won, the Israeli shekel, the Swiss franc or the Euro vary more significantly than they have to date. We engage in currency hedging transactions in an effort to cover some of our exposure to U.S. dollar to U.K. pound sterling currency fluctuations, and we may be required to convert currencies to meet our obligations. Under certain circumstances, these transactions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We have significant manufacturing operations in China, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in China. The majority of our assembly and test operations, chip-on-carrier operations and manufacturing and supply chain management operations are concentrated in our facility in Shenzhen, China. We have substantial research and development related activities in Shenzhen and Shanghai, China. To be successful in China we will need to: • qualify our manufacturing lines and the products we produce in Shenzhen, as required by our customers; • attract and retain qualified personnel to operate our Shenzhen facility; and • attract and retain research and development employees at our Shenzhen and Shanghai facilities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do any of these. Employee turnover in China is high due to the intensely competitive and fluid market for skilled labor. To operate our Shenzhen facility under these conditions, we will need to continue to hire direct manufacturing personnel, administrative personnel and technical personnel; obtain and retain required legal authorization to hire such personnel and incur the time and expense to hire and train such personnel. We are currently seeing a return of customer demand which had decreased as a result of adverse economic conditions in the preceding two years. Our ability to respond to this demand will, among other things, be a function of our ability to attract, train and retain skilled labor in China. Operations in China are subject to greater political, legal and economic risks than our operations in other countries. In particular, the political, legal and economic climate in China, both nationally and regionally, is fluid and unpredictable. Our ability to operate in China may be adversely affected by changes in Chinese laws and regulations such as those related to, among other things, taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, intellectual property, employee benefits and other matters. In addition, we may not obtain or retain the requisite legal permits to continue to operate in China, and costs or operational limitations may be imposed in connection with obtaining and complying with such permits. We have, in the past, been advised that power may be rationed in the location of our Shenzhen facility, and were power rationing to be implemented, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to complete manufacturing commitments on a timely basis or, alternatively, could require significant investment in generating capacity to sustain uninterrupted operations at the facility, which we may not be able to do successfully. We intend to continue to export the majority of the products manufactured at our Shenzhen facility. Under current regulations, upon application and approval by the relevant governmental authorities, we will not be subject to certain Chinese taxes and will be exempt from certain duties on imported materials that are used in the manufacturing process and subsequently exported from China as finished products. However, Chinese trade regulations are in a state of flux, and we may become subject to other forms of taxation and duties in China or may be required to pay export fees in the future. In the event that we become subject to new forms of taxation or export fees in China, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may also be required to expend greater amounts than we currently anticipate in connection with increasing production at our Shenzhen facility. Any one of the factors cited above, or a combination of them, could result in unanticipated costs or interruptions in production, which could materially and adversely affect our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers who could disrupt our business if they stopped, decreased, delayed or were unable to meet our demand for shipments of their products. We depend on a limited number of suppliers of raw materials and equipment used to manufacture our products. We also depend on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture certain of our products, principally Fabrinet in Thailand. Some of these suppliers are sole sources. We typically have not entered into long-term agreements with our suppliers other than Fabrinet and, therefore, these suppliers generally may stop supplying us materials and equipment at any time. Our reliance on a sole supplier or limited number of suppliers could result in delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality, and an inability to identify and qualify another supplier in a timely manner. Given the recent macroeconomic downturn, some of our suppliers that may be small or 19 Table of Contents undercapitalized may experience financial difficulties that could prevent them from supplying us materials and equipment. Any supply deficiencies relating to the quality or quantities of materials or equipment we use to manufacture our products could materially adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. As customer demand has recently increased in our markets, and in adjacent markets, lead times for the purchase of certain materials and equipment from suppliers required to meet this demand have increased and in some cases have limited our ability to rapidly respond to increased demand, and may continue to do so in the future. These conditions have been exacerbated by suppliers, customers and companies reducing their inventory levels in response to the economic conditions described above. In addition, Fabrinet’s manufacturing operations are located in Thailand. Thailand has been subject to political unrest in the recent past, including the temporary interruption of service at one of its international airports, and may again experience such political unrest in the future. If Fabrinet is unable to supply us with materials or equipment, or if they are unable to ship our materials or equipment out of Thailand due to political unrest, this could materially adversely affect our ability to fulfill customer orders and our results of operations. Fluctuations in our operating results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our revenues and other operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future. The timing of order placement, size of orders and satisfaction of contractual customer acceptance criteria, as well as order or shipment delays or deferrals, with respect to our products, may cause material fluctuations in revenues. Our lengthy sales cycle in both of our segments, which may extend to more than one year, may cause our revenues and operating results to vary from period to period and it may be difficult to predict the timing and amount of any variation. Delays or deferrals in purchasing decisions by our customers may increase as we develop new or enhanced products for new markets, including data communications, industrial, research, military, consumer and biotechnology markets. Our current and anticipated future dependence on a small number of customers increases the revenue impact of each such customer’s decision to delay or defer purchases from us, or decision not to purchase products from us. Our expense levels in the future will be based, in large part, on our expectations regarding future revenue sources and, as a result, operating results for any quarterly period in which material orders fail to occur, or are delayed or deferred could vary significantly. Because of these and other factors, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be indicative of our future performance. In future periods, our results of operations may differ, in some cases materially, from the estimates of public market analysts and investors. Such a discrepancy, or our failure to meet published financial projections, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The investment of our cash balances and our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At July 3, 2010, we had $111.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, including $4.5 million in restricted cash. We have historically invested these amounts in U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. government agency securities, corporate debt, money market funds, commercial paper and municipal bonds. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. In September 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., or Lehman, filed a petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In the quarter ended January 2, 2010, we sold a Lehman security with a par value of $0.8 million for $0.1 million. We recorded the impairment charges for the Lehman security of $0.7 million in fiscal year 2009 in “Other income (expense)” in our consolidated statement of operations. We may in the future experience declines in the value of our short-term investments, which we may determine to be other-than-temporary. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We may record additional impairment charges that will adversely impact our results of operations. We review our goodwill, intangible assets and long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review goodwill annually. During the fiscal year ended June 27, 2009, we determined that the goodwill related to our New Focus and Avalon reporting units was fully impaired. Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets for fiscal year 2009, net of $2.8 million associated with the discontinued operations of the New Focus business, amounted to $9.1 million. During fiscal year ended July 3, 2010, we recorded goodwill of $20.0 million and other intangible assets of $9.8 million primarily in connection with our acquisitions of the Newport high-power laser diodes business and Xtellus. We anticipate recording additional goodwill and intangible assets when the purchase accounting for our acquisition of Mintera is complete. In the event that we determine in a future period that impairment of our goodwill, intangible assets or long-lived assets exists for any reason, we would record additional impairment charges in the period such determination is made, which would adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We may incur additional significant restructuring charges that will adversely affect our results of operations. Over the past nine years, we have enacted a series of restructuring plans and cost reduction plans designed to reduce our manufacturing overhead and our operating expenses. Such charges have adversely affected, and will continue to adversely affect, our results of operations for the periods in which such charges have been, or will be, incurred. Additionally, actual costs have in the past, and may in the future, exceed the amounts estimated and provided for in our financial statements. Significant additional charges could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in the periods that they are incurred and recognized. For instance, we accrued $5.4 million and $2.2 million in restructuring charges during fiscal year 2009 and 2010, respectively, in connection with our merger with Avanex. On July 4, 2009, we completed the exchange of our New Focus business to Newport for Newport’s Tucson wafer fabrication facility which resulted in us incurring $0.5 million in restructuring charges in fiscal year 2010 in connection with the transfer of the Tucson manufacturing operations to our European facilities, an activity which has inherent risk as to ability to execute and timing to completion. While restructuring activities associated with our acquisitions of Xtellus and Mintera are expected to be more limited, the costs and execution risk of the corresponding actions could be significant. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory, and we may incur inventory-related charges. We need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements. Accurately forecasting customers’ product needs is difficult. Some of our products and supplies have in the past, and may in the future, become obsolete while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer specifications or a decrease in customer demand. We also have exposure to contractual liabilities to our contract manufacturers for inventories purchased by them on our behalf, based on our forecasted requirements, which may become excess or obsolete. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off non-saleable or obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have from time to time incurred significant inventory-related charges. Any such charges we incur in future periods could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Oclaro Technology Ltd. may not be able to utilize tax losses and other tax attributes against the receivables that arise as a result of its transaction with Deutsche Bank, or in the event there are any restrictions on its ability to utilize tax losses against future income from operations. On August 10, 2005, Oclaro Technology Ltd purchased all of the issued share capital of City Leasing (Creekside) Limited (Creekside), a subsidiary of Deutsche Bank. We entered into this transaction primarily for the business purpose of raising money to fund our operations by realizing the economic value of certain of the deferred tax assets of Oclaro Technology Ltd from the third-party described more fully below. In compliance with U.K. tax 21 Table of Contents law, the transaction was structured to enable certain U.K. tax losses in Oclaro Technology Ltd to be surrendered in order to reduce U.K. taxes otherwise due on sub-lease revenue payable to Creekside. Creekside was entitled to receivables of £73.8 million (approximately $135.8 million, based on an exchange rate of $1.84 to £1.00 on September 2, 2005) from Deutsche Bank in connection with certain aircraft subleases and these payments have been applied over a two-year term to obligations of £73.1 million (approximately $134.5 million, based on an exchange rate of $1.84 to £1.00 on September 2, 2005) owed to Deutsche Bank. As a result of the completion of these transactions, Oclaro Technology Ltd has had available through Creekside cash of approximately £6.63 million (approximately $12.2 million, based on an exchange rate of $1.84 to £1.00 on September 2, 2005). We expect Oclaro Technology Ltd to utilize certain expected tax losses and other tax attributes to reduce the taxes that might otherwise be due by Creekside as the receivables are paid. In the event that Oclaro Technology Ltd is not able to utilize these tax losses and other tax attributes when U.K. tax returns are filed for the relevant periods (or these tax losses and other tax attributes do not arise or are successfully challenged by U.K. tax regulators), Creekside may have to pay taxes, reducing the cash available from Creekside. In the event there is a future change in applicable U.K. tax law, Creekside and in turn Oclaro Technology Ltd, would be responsible for any resulting tax liabilities, which amounts could be material to our financial condition or operating results. In addition, should there be any future changes in U.K. tax law, or unexpected interpretations of U.K. tax law by authorities, that otherwise limit our ability to utilize tax losses and other tax attributes of Oclaro Technology Ltd., we may experience more income tax expense in future years than would be otherwise expected. If our customers do not qualify our manufacturing lines or the manufacturing lines of our subcontractors for volume shipments, our operating results could suffer. Most of our customers do not purchase products, other than limited numbers of evaluation units, prior to qualification of the manufacturing line for volume production. Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing line, must pass through varying levels of qualification with our customers. Our manufacturing lines have passed our qualification standards, as well as our technical standards. However, our customers also require that our manufacturing lines pass their specific qualification standards and that we, and any subcontractors that we may use, be registered under international quality standards. In addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, encounter quality control issues as a result of relocating our manufacturing lines or introducing new products to fill production. We may be unable to obtain customer qualification of our manufacturing lines or we may experience delays in obtaining customer qualification of our manufacturing lines. Such delays or failure to obtain qualifications would harm our operating results and customer relationships. Delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing could result in delays in product shipments to customers and could adversely affect our business. We may experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations or the manufacturing operations of our subcontractors. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect our gross margins, and our product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the shipment schedules requested by our customers, which would negatively affect our revenues, competitive position and reputation. Furthermore, even if we are able to deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, we may be unable to recognize revenues at the time of delivery based on our revenue recognition policies. We may experience low manufacturing yields. Manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the volume of production due to customer demand and the nature and extent of changes in specifications required by customers for which we perform design-in work. Higher volumes due to demand for a fixed, rather than continually changing, design generally results in higher manufacturing yields, whereas lower volume production generally results in lower yields. In addition, lower yields may result, and have in the past resulted, from commercial shipments of products prior to full manufacturing qualification to the applicable specifications. Changes in manufacturing processes required as a result of changes in product specifications, changing customer needs and the introduction of new product lines have historically caused, and may in the future cause, significantly reduced manufacturing yields, resulting in low or negative margins on those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection rate of products during the quality control process, before, 22 Table of Contents during or after manufacture, results in lower yields and margins. Finally, manufacturing yields and margins can also be lower if we receive or inadvertently use defective or contaminated materials from our suppliers. Any reduction in our manufacturing yields will adversely affect our gross margins and could have a material impact on our operating results. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected. Our future success will depend, in large part, upon our intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, design rights, trade secrets, trademarks, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We maintain an active program of identifying technology appropriate for patent protection. Our practice is to require employees and consultants to execute non-disclosure and proprietary rights agreements upon commencement of employment or consulting arrangements. These agreements acknowledge our exclusive ownership of all intellectual property developed by the individuals during their work for us and require that all proprietary information disclosed will remain confidential. Although such agreements may be binding, they may not be enforceable in full or in part in all jurisdictions and any breach of a confidentiality obligation could have a very serious effect on our business and our remedy for such breach may be limited. Our intellectual property portfolio is an important corporate asset. The steps we have taken and may take in the future to protect our intellectual property may not adequately prevent misappropriation or ensure that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. We cannot assure you that our competitors will not successfully challenge the validity of our patents or design products that avoid infringement of our proprietary rights with respect to our technology. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other similar technologies, that any patents will be issued from any application pending or filed by us or that, if patents are issued, that the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, we cannot assure you that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights under those patents will provide a competitive advantage to us or that our products and technology will be adequately covered by our patents and other intellectual property. Further, the laws of certain regions in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including Asia-Pacific, Southeast Asia and Latin America, may not be enforced to protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, the U.K. and continental European countries. This is especially relevant now that we have transferred certain advanced photonics solution manufacturing activities from our San Jose, California facility to Shenzhen, China and transferred all of our assembly and test operations and chip-on-carrier operations, including certain engineering-related functions, from our facilities in the U.K. to Shenzhen, China. Also relevant is that our competitors and new Chinese companies are establishing manufacturing operations in China to take advantage of comparatively low manufacturing costs. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others which could result in expensive litigation or require us to obtain a license to use the technology from third parties, or we may be prohibited from selling certain products in the future. Companies in the industry in which we operate frequently are sued or receive informal claims of patent infringement or infringement of other intellectual property rights. We have, from time to time, received such claims, including from competitors and from companies that have substantially more resources than us. For example, on March 4, 2008, we filed a declaratory judgment complaint captioned Bookham, Inc. v. JDS Uniphase Corp. and Agility Communications, Inc., Civil Action No. 5:08-CV-01275-RMW, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division. Our complaint sought declaratory judgments that our tunable laser products do not infringe any valid, enforceable claim of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,658,035, 6,654,400 and 6,687,278, and that all claims of the aforementioned patents are invalid and unenforceable. On April 10, 2009, we entered into a license and settlement agreement with JDSU pursuant to which we and JDSU have settled all claims between us. In addition, on May 27, 2009, a patent infringement action captioned QinetiQ Limited v. Oclaro, Inc., Civil Action No. 1:09-cv-00372, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. QinetiQ’s original complaint alleged infringement of United States Patent Nos. 5,410,625 and 5,428,698, and sought a 23 Table of Contents permanent injunction, money damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. We filed an answer to the complaint and stated counterclaims against QinetiQ for judgments that the patents-in-suit are invalid and unenforceable. Additionally, we filed a motion to transfer venue to the Northern District of California, which was granted on December 18, 2009. After transfer, the litigation was assigned Civil Action No. 4:10-cv-00080-SBA by the Northern District Court. On June 21, 2010, QinetiQ amended its complaint to allege infringement of a third patent, U.S. Patent No. 5,379,354. We answered QinetiQ’s amended complaint and asserted fraud counterclaims against QinetiQ. A trial in this matter has not yet been set. We believe the claims asserted against us by QinetiQ are without merit and will continue to defend ourselves vigorously. Third parties may in the future assert claims against us concerning our existing products or with respect to future products under development, or with respect to products that we may acquire through a merger, acquisition or asset purchase. We have entered into and may in the future enter into indemnification obligations in favor of some customers that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding that we are infringing other parties’ proprietary rights. If we do infringe a third-party’s rights, we may need to negotiate with holders of those rights relevant to our business. We have from time to time received notices from third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property and where appropriate have entered into license agreements with those third parties with respect to that intellectual property. We may not in all cases be able to resolve allegations of infringement through licensing arrangements, settlement, alternative designs or otherwise. We may take legal action to determine the validity and scope of the third-party rights or to defend against any allegations of infringement. The recent economic downturn could result in holders of intellectual property rights becoming more aggressive in alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights and we may be the subject of such claims asserted by a third-party. In the course of pursuing any of these means or defending against any lawsuits filed against us, we could incur significant costs and diversion of our resources and our management’s attention. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, it is unlikely that we could increase our prices to cover such costs. In addition, such claims could result in significant penalties or injunctions that could prevent us from selling some of our products in certain markets or result in settlements or judgments that require payment of significant royalties or damages. If we fail to obtain the right to use the intellectual property rights of others necessary to operate our business, our ability to succeed will be adversely affected. Certain companies in the telecommunications and optical components markets in which we sell our products have experienced frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Numerous patents in these industries are held by others, including academic institutions and our competitors. Optical component suppliers may seek to gain a competitive advantage or other third parties, inside or outside our market, may seek an economic return on their intellectual property portfolios by making infringement claims against us. We currently in-license certain intellectual property of third-parties, and in the future, we may need to obtain license rights to patents or other intellectual property held by others to the extent necessary for our business. Unless we are able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, patents or other intellectual property held by others could be used to inhibit or prohibit our production and sale of existing products and our development of new products for our markets. Licenses granting us the right to use third-party technology may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Generally, a license, if granted, would include payments of up-front fees, ongoing royalties or both. These payments or other terms could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. In addition, in the event we are granted such a license, it is likely such license would be non-exclusive and other parties, including competitors, may be able to utilize such technology. Our larger competitors may be able to obtain licenses or cross-license their technology on better terms than we can, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, our larger competitors may be able to buy such technology and preclude us from licensing or using such technology. The inability to obtain government licenses and approvals for desired international trading activities or technology transfers may prevent the profitable operation of our business. Many of our present and future business activities are subject to licensing by the United States government under the Export Administration Act, the Export Administration Regulations and other laws, regulations and requirements governing international trade and technology transfer. We presently manufacture products in China 24 Table of Contents and Thailand that require such licenses. The profitable operations of our business may require the continuity of these licenses and may require further licenses and approvals for future products in these and other countries. However, there is no certainty to the continuity of these licenses, nor that further desired licenses and approvals may be obtained. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, which could result in lost sales and lower revenues. The market for optical components and modules is highly competitive and such competition could result in our existing customers moving their orders to competitors. We are aware of a number of companies that have developed or are developing optical component products, including tunable lasers, pluggables, wavelength selective switches and thin film filter products, among others, that compete directly with our current and proposed product offerings. Certain of our competitors may be able to more quickly and effectively: • develop or respond to new technologies or technical standards; • react to changing customer requirements and expectations; • devote needed resources to the development, production, promotion and sale of products; and • deliver competitive products at lower prices. Some of our current competitors, as well as some of our potential competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, broader customer relationships and industry alliances and substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, market leaders in industries such as semiconductor and data communications, who may also have significantly more resources than we do, may in the future enter our market with competing products. All of these risks may be increased if the market were to further consolidate through mergers or other business combinations between competitors. We may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors and aggressive competition in the market may result in lower prices for our products and/or decreased gross margins. Any such development could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues internationally and therefore are subject to additional risks associated with the extent of our international operations. For fiscal years ended July 3, 2010, June 27, 2009 and June 28, 2008, 19 percent, 20 percent and 18 percent of our revenues, respectively, were derived from sales to customers located in the United States and 81 percent, 80 percent and 82 percent of our revenues, respectively, were derived from sales to customers located outside the United States. We are subject to additional risks related to operating in foreign countries, including: • currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulty in enforcing or adequately protecting our intellectual property; • ability to hire qualified candidates; • foreign taxes; • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets; and • foreign regulations. Any of these risks, or any other risks related to our foreign operations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents We may face product liability claims. Despite quality assurance measures, defects may occur in our products. The occurrence of any defects in our products could give rise to liability for damages caused by such defects, including consequential damages. Such defects could, moreover, impair market acceptance of our products. Both could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In addition, we may assume product warranty liabilities related to companies we acquire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In order to mitigate the risk of liability for damages, we carry product liability insurance with a $25.0 million aggregate annual limit and errors and omissions insurance with a $5.0 million annual limit. We cannot assure you that this insurance would adequately cover any or a portion of our costs arising from any defects in our products or otherwise. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Competition for highly skilled technical people is extremely intense and we continue to face difficulty identifying and hiring qualified engineers in many areas of our business. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Our future success also depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of services of these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similar to other technology companies, we rely upon stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as key components of our executive and employee compensation structure. Historically, these components have been critical to our ability to retain important personnel and offer competitive compensation packages. In the past, the retention value of our equity incentives has declined significantly as our stock price has declined, causing many of our options to be “under water.” On December 2, 2009, we completed an option exchange program, under which certain of our key employees exchanged significantly under water options for a lesser number of options that were priced with an exercise price of $6.80 per share, which was the closing price of our common stock on December 2, 2009, the last day of the offer period. Without these components, we would be required to significantly increase cash compensation levels (or develop alternative compensation structures) in order to retain our key employees. Accounting rules relating to the expensing of equity compensation may cause us to substantially reduce, modify, or even eliminate, all or portions of our equity compensation programs which may, in turn, prevent us from retaining or hiring qualified employees and declines in our stock price could reduce or eliminate the retentive effects of our equity compensation programs. In addition, certain former Avanex, Newport, Xtellus and Mintera employees now employed by us may decide to no longer work for us with little or no notice for a number of reasons, including dissatisfaction with our corporate culture, compensation, and new roles or responsibilities, among others. We may not be able to raise capital when desired on favorable terms, or at all, or without dilution to our stockholders. The rapidly changing industry in which we operate, the length of time between developing and introducing a product to market and frequent changing customer specifications for products, among other things, makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. It is possible that we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or be able to draw down on the $25.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Capital Finance, Inc. and other lenders, or otherwise have sufficient capital resources to meet our future capital needs. If this occurs, we may need additional financing to execute on our current or future business strategies. If we raise funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of securities held by existing stockholders. If we raise funds through the issuance of debt instruments, the agreements governing such debt instruments may contain covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: (i) incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; (ii) create liens; (iii) make certain investments or acquisitions; (iv) enter into transactions with our affiliates; (v) sell certain assets; (vi) redeem capital stock or make other restricted payments; (vii) declare or pay dividends or make 26 Table of Contents other distributions to stockholders; and (viii) merge or consolidate with any entity. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, if and when needed, our ability to fund our operations, develop or enhance our products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures and operate effectively could be significantly limited. Risks Related to Regulatory Compliance and Litigation Our business involves the use of hazardous materials, and we are subject to environmental and import/export laws and regulations that may expose us to liability and increase our costs. We historically handled hazardous materials as part of our manufacturing activities. Consequently, our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use and handling of hazardous substances and waste disposal. This also includes the operations in our Tucson fab, which we acquired from Newport in July 2009. We may incur costs to comply with current or future environmental laws. As with other companies engaged in manufacturing activities that involve hazardous materials, a risk of environmental liability is inherent in our manufacturing activities, as is the risk that our facilities will be shut down in the event of a release of hazardous waste, or that we would be subject to extensive monetary liability. The costs associated with environmental compliance or remediation efforts or other environmental liabilities could adversely affect our business. Under applicable EU regulations, we, along with other electronics component manufacturers, are prohibited from using lead and certain other hazardous materials in our products. We could lose business or face product returns if we fail to maintain these requirements properly. In addition, the sale and manufacture of certain of our products require on-going compliance with governmental security and import/export regulations. We may, in the future, be subject to investigation which may result in fines for violations of security and import/export regulations. Furthermore, any disruptions of our product shipments in the future, including disruptions as a result of efforts to comply with governmental regulations, could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and results of operations. Avanex previously experienced material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting. We have also acquired private companies which had no previous reporting obligations under Sarbanes-Oxley. A lack of effective internal control over our financial reporting could result in an inability to report our financial results accurately, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed. Avanex has in the past discovered, and we may in the future discover, deficiencies, including those considered to be indicative of material weaknesses, in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a material misstatement of our financial statements or otherwise cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. This, in turn, could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and our stock price, and we could be subject to stockholder litigation. Even if we are able to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the costs of doing business may increase and our management may be required to dedicate greater time and resources to that effort. Litigation may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. On June 26, 2001, the first of a number of securities class actions was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against New Focus, Inc., now known as Oclaro Photonics, Inc. (New Focus), certain of its officers and directors, and certain underwriters for New Focus’ initial and secondary public offerings. A consolidated amended class action complaint, captioned In re New Focus, Inc. Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, No. 01 Civ. 5822, was filed on April 20, 2002. The complaint generally alleges that various underwriters engaged in improper and undisclosed activities related to the allocation of shares in New Focus’ initial public 27 Table of Contents offering and seeks unspecified damages for claims under the Exchange Act on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of common stock from May 17, 2000 to December 6, 2000. The lawsuit against New Focus is coordinated for pretrial proceedings with a number of other pending litigations challenging underwriter practices in over 300 cases, as In re Initial Public Offering Securities Litigation, 21 MC 92 (SAS), including actions against Bookham Technology plc, now known as Oclaro Technology Ltd (Bookham Technology) and Avanex Corporation, now known as Oclaro (North America), Inc. (Avanex), and certain of each entity’s respective officers and directors, and certain of the underwriters of their public offerings. In October 2002, the claims against the directors and officers of New Focus, Bookham Technology and Avanex were dismissed, without prejudice, subject to the directors’ and officers’ execution of tolling agreements. The parties have reached a global settlement of the litigation. On October 5, 2009, the Court entered an order certifying a settlement class and granting final approval of the settlement. Under the settlement, the insurers will pay the full amount of the settlement share allocated to New Focus, Bookham Technology and Avanex, and New Focus, Bookham Technology and Avanex will bear no financial liability. New Focus, Bookham Technology and Avanex, as well as the officer and director defendants who were previously dismissed from the action pursuant to tolling agreements, will receive complete dismissals from the case. Certain objectors have appealed the Court’s October 5, 2009 order to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. If for any reason the settlement does not become effective, we believe that Bookham Technology, New Focus and Avanex have meritorious defenses to the claims and therefore believe that such claims will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. On February 13, 2009, Bijan Badihian filed a complaint against Avanex Corporation, its then-CEO Giovanni Barbarossa, then interim CFO Mark Weinswig and an administrative assistant (who has since been dismissed from the action), in the Superior Court for the State of California, Los Angeles County. On June 8, 2009, after defendants filed a demurrer, plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint adding as defendants Oclaro, Inc. as successor to Avanex, and Paul Smith, who was Chairman of the Avanex Board of Directors. On April 28, 2010 Badihian filed a Second Amended Complaint, which names Avanex, Oclaro (as successor in interest), Greg Dougherty, Joel Smith III, Paul Smith, Barbarossa, and Weinswig. Messrs. Barbarossa, Dougherty and Smith III are current members of Oclaro’s Board of Directors. The Second Amended Complaint alleges that defendants failed to disclose material facts regarding Avanex’s operational performance and future prospects, or engaged in conduct which negatively impacted those future prospects. The Second Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty; (2) intentional misrepresentation; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) concealment; (5) constructive fraud; (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (7) negligent infliction of emotional distress. The Second Amended Complaint seeks at least $5 million in compensatory damages plus prejudgment interest, unspecified damages for emotional distress, punitive damages, and costs. On August 6, 2010, the parties entered into a confidential settlement agreement providing for the dismissal of the litigation with prejudice. Consistent with the terms of the settlement agreement, the Defendants deny any wrongdoing as alleged by the Plaintiff. On May 27, 2009, a patent infringement action captioned QinetiQ Limited v. Oclaro, Inc., Civil Action No. 1:09-cv-00372, was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. QinetiQ’s original complaint alleged infringement of United States Patent Nos. 5,410,625 and 5,428,698, and sought a permanent injunction, money damages, costs, and attorneys’ fees. We filed an answer to the complaint and stated counterclaims against QinetiQ for judgments that the patents-in-suit are invalid and unenforceable. Additionally, we filed a motion to transfer venue to the Northern District of California, which was granted on December 18, 2009. After transfer, the litigation was assigned Civil Action No. 4:10-cv-00080-SBA by the Northern District Court. On June 21, 2010, QinetiQ amended its complaint to allege infringement of a third patent, U.S. Patent No. 5,379,354. We answered QinetiQ’s amended complaint and asserted fraud counterclaims against QinetiQ. A trial in this matter has not yet been set. We believe the claims asserted against us by QinetiQ are without merit and will continue to defend ourselves vigorously. In addition, we are party to certain intellectual property infringement litigation as more fully described above under “— Risks Related to Our Business — Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others which could result in expensive litigation or require us to obtain a license to use the technology from third parties, or we may be prohibited from selling certain products in the future.” 28 Table of Contents Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any litigation to which we are subject may be costly and, further, could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management’s attention from our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock A variety of factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to be volatile or to decline and we may incur significant costs from class action litigation due to our expected stock volatility. The trading price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall. In addition to the matters discussed in other risk factors included herein, some of the reasons for the fluctuations in our stock price are: • fluctuations in our results of operations; • changes in our business, operations or prospects; • hiring or departure of key personnel; • new contractual relationships with key suppliers or customers by us or our competitors; • proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; • financial results that fail to meet public market analysts’ expectations and changes in stock market analysts’ recommendations regarding us, other optical technology companies or the telecommunication industry in general; • future sales of common stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock; • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages; • future issuances of common stock in connection with acquisitions or other transactions; • acts of war, terrorism, or natural disasters; • industry, domestic and international market and economic conditions, including the global macroeconomic downturn over the last two years; • low trading volume in our stock; • developments relating to patents or property rights; and • government regulatory changes. In connection with our acquisition of Xtellus in December 2009, approximately 3.7 million of the shares of our common stock that we issued to Xtellus stockholders are or were subject to sale, transfer and other disposition restrictions. The restrictions lapsed on half of such shares six months after the closing date of the transaction and lapse on the remainder of such shares 12 months after the closing date of the transaction. The sale of these shares after the restrictions lapse could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, in connection with our recent acquisition of Mintera in July 2010, we may pay up to $20.0 million in additional revenue-based consideration to former stockholders of Mintera, determined based on a set of sliding scale formulas, to the extent revenue from Mintera products is more than $29.0 million in the twelve months following the acquisition and/or more than $40.0 million in the 18 months following the acquisition. Achieving cumulative revenues of $40 million over the next 12 months and $70.0 million over the next 18 month period would lead to the maximum $20.0 million in additional consideration. This post-closing consideration, if any, will be payable in cash or, at our option, newly issued shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and stock. The issuance, if any, and subsequent sale of these shares could also negatively impact our stock price. Since Oclaro Technology Ltd’s initial public offering in April 2000, Oclaro Technology Ltd’s American Depository Shares (ADSs) and ordinary shares, our shares of common stock and the shares of our customers and competitors have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations, in many cases without any direct 29 Table of Contents relationship to the affected company’s operating performance. An outgrowth of this market volatility is the significant vulnerability of our stock price and the stock prices of our customers and competitors to any actual or perceived fluctuation in the strength of the markets we serve, regardless of the actual consequence of such fluctuations. As a result, the market prices for stock in these companies are highly volatile. These broad market and industry factors caused the market price of Oclaro Technology Ltd’s ADSs, ordinary shares, and our common stock to fluctuate, and may in the future cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, regardless of our actual operating performance or the operating performance of our customers. When the market price of a stock has been volatile, as our stock price may be, holders of that stock have occasionally brought securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit were without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. In addition, if the suit were resolved in a manner adverse to us, the damages we could be required to pay may be substantial and would have an adverse impact on our ability to operate our business. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We anticipate that we will retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance the development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect your rights as a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third-party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the holders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may in the future issue shares of authorized preferred stock at any time. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable. These include provisions: • authorizing the board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; 30 Table of Contents • creating a classified board of directors pursuant to which our directors are elected for staggered three-year terms; • permitting the board of directors to increase the size of the board and to fill vacancies; • requiring a super-majority vote of our stockholders to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which limit the right of a corporation to engage in a business combination with a holder of 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting securities, or certain affiliated persons. We do not currently have a stockholder rights plan in place. Although we believe that these charter and bylaw provisions, and provisions of Delaware law provide an opportunity for the board to assure that our stockholders realize full value for their investment, they could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, even under circumstances that some stockholders may consider beneficial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 