D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Our business model continues to change and our prospects may be difficult to evaluate based on historical performance. Commencing with the launch of the NetEase websites in 1999 until 2001, the majority of our revenues came from online advertising. In 2001, we began focusing on wireless value-added services and, to a lesser extent other fee-based premium services, which grew to account for 69.4% of total revenues in 2002 but declined each year thereafter to 3.4% of total net revenues in 2006. More recently, we have devoted significant resources to our online games business, which, in turn, grew to account for 15.9% and 35.7% of our total revenues in 2002 and 2003, respectively, and 65.8%, 81.9% and 84.6% of our total net revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. The evolution of our business focus over the past few years from solely operating the NetEase websites and selling online advertisements to providing wireless value-added and other fee-based premium services to developing and distributing online games could make it difficult for you to evaluate our future performance based on historical results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase or maintain our revenues from online games or any other services. Our business depends to a significant extent on two online games, which accounted for 65.8%, 81.9% and 84.6% of our total net revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We may not be able to maintain the popularity of these games for a variety of reasons. Two of our in-house developed massively multi-player online role-playing games, known as MMORPGs, Westward Journey Online II (which was commercially launched in August 2002) and Fantasy Westward Journey (which was commercially launched in January 2004), contributed 65.8%, 81.9% and 84.6% of our total net revenues in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We expect that we will need to continually introduce new versions or substantive upgrades of these and our other online games on a frequent basis to maintain their popularity, although changes in users’ tastes or in the overall market for online games in China could alter the anticipated life cycle of each version or upgrade or even cause our users to stop playing our games altogether. Because of the limited history of the online games market 5 Table of Contents in China, we cannot at this time estimate the total life cycle of any of our games. If we are unable to maintain the popularity of Westward Journey Online II and Fantasy Westward Journey or are unable to introduce new online games which are popular with online game users in China (as discussed in the next risk factor), our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to develop and introduce new online games timely and successfully, we will not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues will suffer. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends not only on the popularity of our existing online games but also on our ability to develop and introduce new games that our customers and users choose to buy. If we are unsuccessful at developing and introducing new online games that are appealing to users with acceptable prices and terms, our business and operating results will be negatively impacted because we would not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate revenues would suffer. The development of new games can be very difficult and requires high levels of innovation. New technologies in online game programming or operations could render our current online titles or other online games that we develop in the future obsolete or unattractive to our subscribers, thereby limiting our ability to recover development costs and potentially adversely affecting our future revenues and profitability. In particular, the online game industry in China is entering a transition phase from 2D to 3D games, with numerous new 3D game titles being launched in the market starting in recent years. In response to this trend, we have been devoting additional resources to developing or licensing 3D games and software components for such games, and we cannot assure you that such games will be successful. In particular, we have been devoting a significant portion of our research and development efforts to develop Datang, our first 2.5D game which commercially launched in July 2006, as well as two games currently in development: Tianxia II, our first 3D game, and Westward Journey Online III, which is an enhanced version of our popular Westward Journey series of games. We have conducted beta testing of Tianxia II, whereby players try the game for free and provide feedback to us regarding their satisfaction with the game. The feedback we received was less positive than management expected, and we are in the process of altering the game and adding more features to it. These changes involve significant cost, and we are not able to predict if or when we will commercially launch a new version of the game and whether the game will ultimately become popular. Moreover, we expect the beta testing of Westward Journey Online III will adversely affect our revenues from Westward Journey Online II if a significant portion of our existing players switch to the new version. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether Westward Journey Online III will be as popular as the prior version of the game or if players will stop playing both versions. In addition, we are required to devote significant resources to the ongoing operations of our online games, such as staff costs related to our “Games Masters” which supervise the activities within our games. If we fail to anticipate our users’ needs and technological trends accurately or are otherwise unable to complete the development of games in a timely fashion, we will be unable to introduce new games into the market to successfully compete. The demand for new games is difficult to forecast, in part due to the relative immaturity of the market and relatively short life cycles of Internet-based technologies. As we introduce and support additional games and as competition in the market for our games intensifies, we expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand. In particular, competition in the online game market is growing as more and more online games are introduced by existing and new market participants. 6 Table of Contents All of our games use the pay-to-play revenue model, and we may be unable to effectively address future market trends regarding new revenue models for online games in China. Except for our casual games which have contributed an insignificant amount of our revenue since their launch in 2005, all of our games use the pay-to-play revenue model whereby players purchase our prepaid point cards to pay for playing time. A number of our competitors have been transitioning to an item-billing revenue model where end users are able to play the basic functions of the online games for free and may choose to purchase in-game value-added services, including certain in-game items and premium features, which enhance the game experience. If there is an overall shift in the online game market in China to an item-billing or another revenue model, we may be unable to launch new games or new versions of existing games which effectively use such model, and we may be required to make significant research and development and selling and marketing expenditures to develop and promote such games. In that case, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Reports of violence and theft related to online games may result in bad publicity or governmental response that could have a material and adverse impact on our business. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly inspired by online games and theft of virtual items between users in online games. While we believe that such events were not related to our online games, it is possible that our reputation, as one of the leading online game providers in China, could be adversely affected by such behavior. In response to the media reports, in August 2005, the Chinese government enacted new regulations to prohibit all minors under the age of 18 from playing online games in which players are allowed to kill other players, an activity that has been termed Player Kills, or PK. The Chinese government has also taken steps to limit online game playing time for all minors under the age of 18. See below “Risks Related to the Telecommunications and Internet Industries in China—The Chinese government has taken steps to limit online game playing time for all minors. These and any other new restrictions may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.” If the Chinese government should determine that online games have a negative impact on society, it may impose certain restrictions on the online game industry, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acts of cheating by users of online games could lessen the popularity of our online games, adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations. There have been a number of incidents where users, through a variety of methods, were able to modify the rules of our online games, particularly the online game we licensed from a third party. Although these users did not gain unauthorized access to our systems, they were able to modify the rules of our online games during game play in a manner that allowed them to cheat and disadvantage our other online game users which often has the effect of causing players to stop using the game and shortening the game’s lifecycle. At one point, cheating by some of our online game users led to a decrease in the number of users of our licensed online game PristonTale, which we stopped charging for in August 2004 and stopped operating in May 2005. Although we have taken a number of steps to deter our users from engaging in cheating when playing our online games, we cannot assure you that we or the third parties from whom we license some of our online games will be successful or timely in taking corrective steps necessary to prevent users from modifying the terms of our online games. Illegal game servers could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Several of our competitors have reported that some Internet cafés have installed illegal copies of such competitors’ games on the cafés’ servers and let their customers play such games on illegal servers 7 Table of Contents without paying for the game playing time. While we already have in place numerous internal control measures to protect the source codes of our games from being stolen and to address illegal server usage and, to date, our games have not experienced such usage, our preventive measures may not be effective. The misappropriation of our game server installation software and installation of illegal game servers could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The lack of established online payment systems in China could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Online payment systems in China are not as widely available or acceptable to consumers in China as in the United States and elsewhere. Although major Chinese banks have instituted online payment systems, these systems are still at an early stage. In addition, a limited number of consumers in China have credit cards or debit cards. Concerns about secure online payment systems may limit the number of fee-based online transactions that we can service and may limit our growth in these areas. If online payment services do not develop, our ability to grow our online games and wireless value-added and other fee-based services businesses would be limited. In response to these factors and in connection with the introduction of our first online game, Westward Journey Online, at the end of 2001, we introduced a prepaid point card which we believe has facilitated the usability and growth of all of our online game services, although its development and distribution has caused us to incur additional costs. To address the difficulty of making online payments in China, users can buy this card at local stores and other locations in China. Electronic point cards can also be purchased through credit cards or online e-sales system through which players can directly credit their accounts at Internet cafés or computer stores. The points contained in the cards or directly deposited into their user accounts through the e-sales system can then be used to pay for online services, such as playing time for online games. We cannot be certain, however, that Internet users in China will be willing to continue to adopt this payment method on a wide-spread and consistent basis or that it will be immune to the security and other concerns which have thus far contributed to the relatively low level of e-commerce activity in China. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for our fee-based services, our ability to generate increased revenue will be negatively affected. We depend upon multiple printing companies and distributors to produce and deliver our prepaid point cards to the various points of sale. If such parties mishandle our cards or the related passcodes, our reputation and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We appoint multiple printers and distributors throughout China to produce and deliver our prepaid point cards to the various points of sale. We generally have cards produced by individual printers in batches of thousands, or ten of thousands, of cards, with each card having an individual passcode which enables the purchaser to deposit the points on the card into their online user account to pay for game playing time or our other fee-based services. In addition, before the cards are purchased by users of the NetEase websites, we activate them on our internal systems. In one instance in 2005, one of our printers created unauthorized duplicate batches of our cards with the same passcodes as the cards which we ordered. Because our internal system only allows a passcode for a particular card to be used once, a small number of customers were not able to use their cards because the passcode for the duplicate card had already been used. Although this incident had no material impact on our business or financial results, we have enhanced our efforts to ensure that our cards are produced and distributed in accordance with our instructions. In particular, we have focused our customer service team on quickly responding to customer complaints regarding our cards, both to maintain our reputation in the market and to identify any issues which may indicate a potential problem with a printer or distributor. We are also highly selective in our choice of such parties, and have begun 8 Table of Contents activating our cards on our internal system as close as possible to the purchase of such cards by the end-user to prevent any duplicate cards. If, however, these efforts are unsuccessful and our printers or distributors mishandle our cards or the related passcodes, our reputation and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We expect that a portion of our future revenues will continue to come from our advertising services, which represented approximately 12.1% of our total net revenues for 2006, but we may not be able to compete effectively in this market because it is relatively new and intensely competitive, in which case our ability to generate and maintain advertising revenue in the future could be adversely affected. Although we anticipate that the revenues generated by our online games will continue to constitute the major portion of our future revenues, we believe that we will continue to rely on advertising revenues as one of our primary revenue sources for the foreseeable future. Online advertising in China is still relatively new and many of our current and potential advertisers have limited experience with the Internet as an advertising medium, have not traditionally devoted a significant portion of their advertising expenditures or other available funds to Web-based advertising, and may not find the Internet to be effective for promoting their products and services relative to traditional print and broadcast media. Our ability to generate and maintain significant advertising revenue will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the development of a large base of users possessing demographic characteristics attractive to advertisers; • the development of software that blocks Internet advertisements before they appear on a user’s screen; • downward pressure on online advertising prices; and • the effectiveness of our advertising delivery and tracking system. Changes in government policy could also restrict or curtail our online advertising services. For example, since July 2006, the PRC government has enacted a series of regulations, administrative instructions and policies to restrict online medical advertising, which we believe has contributed to a slight decline in our advertising revenue from clients in this industry. As a result of these regulations, we may lose some of our existing medical advertising clients. Moreover, the acceptance of the Internet as a medium for advertising depends on the development of a measurement standard. No standards have been widely accepted for the measurement of the effectiveness of online advertising. Industry-wide standards may not develop sufficiently to support the Internet as an effective advertising medium. If these standards do not develop, advertisers may choose not to advertise on the Internet in general or through our portals or search engines. In addition, we believe that competition in the online advertising industry in China has intensified recently as new entrants have come into the market, such as Baidu.com, Inc., Tencent Inc. and other vertical Internet portals. The entry of additional, highly competitive Internet companies, whether domestic or international companies, into the Chinese market would further heighten competition for advertising spending in China. If the Internet does not become more widely accepted as a medium for advertising, our ability to generate increased revenue will be negatively affected. 9 Table of Contents Currently, we depend on the contractual relationships of Guangzhou NetEase Computer System Co., Ltd., or Guangzhou NetEase, with the two principal mobile phone companies in China at the national, provincial and local level for substantially all of our wireless value-added services revenues and the alteration or termination of these relationships could adversely impact our business. Our wireless value-added services are conducted in conjunction with the two principal mobile phone companies in China, China Mobile and China Unicom, which together service the major portion of China’s mobile phone subscribers. We rely on the national, provincial and local affiliates of these two companies to deliver substantially all of our wireless value-added services. We also offer certain of these services through China Netcom’s limited mobility regional mobile phone networks, but such services have contributed an insignificant amount of our wireless value-added services revenue to date. If our various contracts with either China Mobile or China Unicom are terminated or scaled-back, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to find appropriate replacement partners with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer these services, which could adversely affect our business. Our wireless value-added services are provided through a number of contracts with the provincial and local affiliates of China Mobile and with China Unicom, and each of these contracts is non-exclusive and of a limited term (generally six months to two years). These contracts may also be terminated in advance under certain circumstances. We cannot be certain that we will be able to renew these contracts as necessary or enter into new arrangements with these or other affiliates of China Mobile and China Unicom. We may also be compelled to amend or renew our arrangements with these mobile phone operators in ways which adversely affect our business. In the event Guangzhou NetEase’s relationships with either China Mobile or China Unicom are adversely altered or terminated, our revenue would likely be adversely affected and we may be unable to find alternatives that would replace such networks and revenue. Changes in the policies of China Mobile and China Unicom and in their enforcement of their policies has adversely affected our revenues from wireless value-added services, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in the future. China Mobile and China Unicom have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the wireless value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the mobile operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality. Also, the way such policies have been enforced as applied to third party service providers has changed in the past, and may do so again in the future. For example, China Mobile banned all cooperative arrangements known as “SMS website unions” in June 2003, effectively precluding large service providers from aggregating unregistered websites and utilizing China Mobile’s billing platform to gather fees for these services. In August 2003, China Mobile further banned service providers from using its network to charge customers for services which were deemed by it to be not purely wireless services. In addition, new billing systems for SMS services have been adopted, which require users to make two confirmations to order services via the Internet, and new policies have been implemented that enable users to more easily cancel services and prevent service providers from billing inactive users for subscription-based services. We believe that these billing systems and policies have adversely affected the growth of our revenue from wireless value-added services in 2004, 2005 and 2006. We expect that our revenue growth will continue to be adversely affected by the introduction of these billing systems and policies. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately respond to these developments or future changes in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the mobile operators’ policies are in a state of flux and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Any non-compliance with the mobile operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue from wireless value-added services. We experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our online games which appears to be a result of the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in 2003 and any recurrence of SARS, an outbreak of the H5N1 strain of bird flu (avian influenza) or another widespread public health problem could further adversely affect our business and results of operations. During April and May 2003, we experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our online game services which we believe resulted from the closure of Internet cafés in Beijing and elsewhere to prevent the spread of SARS. Many users of our online game services can only access those services at Internet cafés. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China where virtually all of our revenue is derived and in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou where most of our employees are located could have a negative effect on our operations. In addition, there has been confirmed human cases of avian influenza in PRC, Vietnam, Iraq, Thailand, Indonesia, Turkey, Cambodia and other countries which have proven fatal in some instances. If such an outbreak or any other similar epidemic were to spread in the PRC, where our operations are located, it may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations; • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees; • closure of Internet cafés and other public areas where people access the Internet; and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to retain our existing key employees and to add and retain senior officers to our management. We depend on the services of our existing key employees. Our success will largely depend on our ability to retain these key employees and to attract and retain qualified senior and middle level managers to our management team. Future changes in management could cause material disruptions to our business. We also depend on our ability to attract and retain in the future highly skilled technical, editorial, marketing and customer service personnel, especially experienced online game software developers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain such personnel or that any personnel we hire in the future will successfully integrate into our organization or ultimately contribute positively to our business. In particular, the market for experienced online game software programmers is 11 Table of Contents intensely competitive in China. While we believe we offer compensation packages that are consistent with market practice, we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire and retain sufficient experienced programmers to support our online games business. We may also be unsuccessful in training and retaining less-experienced programmers on a cost-effective basis. The loss of any of our key employees would significantly harm our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our employees. Our revenues fluctuate significantly and may adversely impact the trading price of our American Depositary Shares or any other securities which become publicly traded. Our revenues and results of operations have varied significantly in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users to the NetEase websites in the increasingly competitive Internet market in China; • successfully implement our business strategies as planned; and • update and develop our Internet applications, services, technologies and infrastructure. Historically, advertising and e-commerce revenues have followed the same general seasonal trend throughout each year with the first quarter of the year being the weakest quarter due to the Chinese New Year holiday and the traditional close of advertisers’ annual budgets and the third quarter as the strongest. Usage of our wireless value-added services and online games has generally increased around the Chinese New Year holiday and other Chinese holidays, in particular winter and summer school holidays during which school-aged users have more time to use such services and games. Accordingly, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the trading price of our American Depositary Shares or any other securities of ours which may become publicly traded to decline. Changes in accounting rules for share-based compensation may adversely affect our operating results, our stock price and our competitiveness in the employee marketplace. Our future success depends to a large degree on our continuing ability to identify, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. We have a history of using employee stock options to align employees’ interest with the interests of our shareholders and encourage quality employees to join us and retain our quality employees by providing competitive compensation packages. On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, (or SFAS 123(R)), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based compensation based on estimated fair values. As a result, our operating results contain a charge for share-based compensation expense related to employee stock options. The recognition of share-based compensation in our statement of operations would have a negative effect on our reported results and earnings per share, which could in turn negatively affect our stock price. On the other hand, if we alter our employee share incentive plan to minimize the share-based compensation expenses, it may limit our ability to continue to use share-based awards as a tool to attract and retain our employees, and it may adversely affect our operations. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to establish and maintain relationships with content providers, we may not be able to attract traffic to the NetEase websites. We rely on a number of third party relationships to attract traffic and provide content in order to make the NetEase websites more attractive to users and advertisers. Most of our arrangements with content providers are short-term and may be terminated at the convenience of the other party. Some content providers have increased the fees they charge us for their content. This trend could increase our costs and operating expenses and could adversely affect our ability to obtain content at an economically acceptable cost. Moreover, our agreements with content providers are usually non-exclusive, although certain of our competitors have been entering into exclusive arrangements for certain content, particularly online video content. If we are not able to renew our agreements with content providers or our competitors obtain exclusive rights to content which we wish to offer on the NetEase websites, the attractiveness of our portal to users will be severely impaired. Also, if other Internet companies present the same or similar content in a superior manner, it would adversely affect our visitor traffic. We expect that the increasing popularity of online video content among Internet users in China will increase our costs in future periods because it requires significant bandwidth to deliver and will likely necessitate investments by us in new video streaming technology. We believe that online video content is becoming increasingly popular among Internet users in China and that we will need to offer a wide range of video content on the NetEase websites to attract users. Although advances in video compression technology have allowed reductions in the bandwidth required to deliver video content, such content still requires significantly more bandwidth than the other forms of content we offer on the NetEase websites. If we are unable to pass on such increased costs to users, which we believe is unlikely for the foreseeable future, our costs will increase which could materially adversely affect our business and profitability. In addition, the technology for video content processing, transmission and high-speed data access systems is characterized by rapid developments and evolving industry standards. To enable users to access our video content quickly and reliably and remain competitive with other Internet portals in China and elsewhere, we anticipate that we will be required to invest in new video streaming technologies, including technologies developed by third parties, on a regular basis which will also increase our costs. We do not own Guangzhou NetEase or Beijing Guangyitong Advertising Co., Ltd., or Guangyitong Advertising, and if they or their ultimate shareholders violate our contractual arrangements with them, our business could be disrupted, our reputation may be harmed and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights which may be time consuming and expensive. Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising are owned by shareholders whose interests may differ from ours and those of our shareholders because they own a larger percentage of Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising than of our company. Specifically, the business and operations of Guangzhou NetEase, as the operator of the NetEase websites and a provider of online games and wireless value-added and other fee-based premium services, and Guangyitong Advertising, as an advertising firm, are subject to Chinese laws and regulations that differ from the laws and regulations that govern the business and operations of NetEase. For example, Chinese laws and regulations require us to verify the content of third party advertising content we place on the NetEase websites, and we are partly dependent upon the conduct of Guangyitong Advertising, which is not directly subject to those laws and regulations, in order to ensure that we remain compliant with those laws and regulations. Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising or their ultimate shareholders could violate our arrangements with them by, among other things, failing to operate and maintain the NetEase websites or their various businesses in an acceptable manner, failing to remit revenue to us on a timely basis or at all or diverting customers or business opportunities from our company. A violation of these agreements could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation in the market. If Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising or their ultimate shareholders violate our agreements with them, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our rights. This litigation could result in the disruption of our business, diversion of our resource and the incurrence of substantial costs. 13 Table of Contents Because our contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their ultimate shareholders do not detail the parties’ rights and obligations, our remedies for a breach of these arrangements are limited. Our current relationship with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their ultimate shareholders is based on a number of contracts. The terms of these agreements are often statements of general intent and do not detail the rights and obligations of the parties. Some of these contracts provide that the parties will enter into further agreements on the details of the services to be provided. Others contain price and payment terms that are subject to monthly adjustment. These provisions may be subject to differing interpretations, particularly on the details of the services to be provided and on price and payment terms. It may be difficult for us to obtain remedies or damages from Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising or their ultimate shareholders for breaching our agreements. Because we rely significantly on Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising for our business, the realization of any of these risks may disrupt our operations or cause degradation in the quality and service provided on, or a temporary or permanent shutdown of, the NetEase websites. A majority of the share capital of Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising is held by our major shareholder, who may cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that is adverse to us. Our major shareholder, William Lei Ding, holds the majority interest in Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising. As a result, Mr. Ding may be able to cause these agreements to be amended in a manner that will be adverse to our company, or may be able to cause these agreements not to be renewed, even if their renewal would be beneficial for us. Prior to our initial public offering of American Depositary Shares in 2000, a number of these agreements were amended. Although we have entered into an agreement that prevents the amendment of these agreements without the approval of the members of our Board other than Mr. Ding, we can provide no assurances that these agreements will not be amended in the future to contain terms that might differ from the terms that are currently in place. These differences may be adverse to our interests. We may not be able to conduct our operations without the services provided by Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising. Our operations are currently dependent upon our commercial relationships with Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising, and we derive most of our revenues from these companies. A portion of our revenues under our contracts with these companies is based upon preliminary and tentative amounts that have been agreed upon in advance and is subject to being trued-up at our company’s discretion by the end of each quarter. If these companies are unwilling or unable to perform the agreements which we have entered into with them, we may not be able to conduct our operations in the manner in which we currently plan. In addition, Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising may seek to renew these agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control these companies, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them. If we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not expand, and our operating expenses may increase. 14 Table of Contents We issued US$100.0 million of zero coupon convertible subordinated notes due July 2023 which we may not be able to repay in cash and could result in dilution of our earnings per share. In July 2003, we issued US$100.0 million aggregate principal amount of zero coupon convertible subordinated notes due July 2023. The notes are convertible into our ordinary shares at a conversion price of US$0.4815 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events, which would result in the issuance of an aggregate of approximately 208 million ordinary shares (equivalent to approximately 8.3 million American Depositary Shares). Each holder of the notes will have the right, at the holder’s option, to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the principal amount of the holder’s notes on July 15 in 2007, 2008, 2013 and 2018 at a price equal to 100% of the outstanding principal amount. As of March 31, 2007, none of the notes have been redeemed, and US$11,270,000 worth of the notes have been converted into ordinary shares by certain holders of the notes. We may also be required to repurchase all of the outstanding notes following a fundamental change of our company, such as a change of control, prior to maturity. We may not have enough cash on hand or the ability to access cash to pay the notes if presented for redemption on a fundamental change, on a redemption date referred to above or at maturity. In addition, the redemption or purchase of our notes with our ordinary shares or the conversion of the notes into our ordinary shares could result in a reduction of our earnings per share. In May 2007, we entered into a revolving loan facility with the Hong Kong office of a commercial bank which is available, upon our request, for the refinancing of our convertible notes upon redemption requests by noteholders. One of our shareholders has significant influence over our company. Our founder, Chief Executive Officer and director, William Lei Ding, beneficially owned approximately 47.2% as of March 31, 2007 of our outstanding ordinary shares and is our largest shareholder. Accordingly, Mr. Ding has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He also has significant influence in preventing or causing a change in control. In addition, without the consent of this shareholder, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. The interests of Mr. Ding may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. Our arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their respective shareholders may cause a transfer pricing adjustment and may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their respective shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment which may result in an increase in our taxes. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives and PRC tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In accordance with “Income Tax Law of China for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises”, foreign invested enterprises are generally subject to enterprise income tax, or EIT, at the rate of 30% plus a local income tax of 3%. Our subsidiary, NetEase Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or NetEase Beijing, being a 15 Table of Contents foreign invested enterprise and located in the New Technology Industrial Development Experimental Zone in Beijing, has been recognized as a “New and High Technology Enterprise.” According to an approval granted by the Haidian State Tax Bureau in November 2000, NetEase Beijing is entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 15% commencing from the year 2000. In addition, the approval also granted NetEase Beijing with a full exemption from EIT from 2000 to 2002, a 50% reduction in EIT from 2003 to 2005, and a full exemption from the local income tax from 2000 onwards. Consequently, NetEase Beijing was exempted from EIT and local income tax for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2002, and enjoyed a 50% reduction in EIT for each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. According to the approval granted by the Haidian State Tax Bureau on April 14, 2006, NetEase Beijing has been recognized as “Advanced Technology Enterprise” and hence is entitled to a reduced EIT rate of 10% from 2006 to 2008 and a full exemption from the local income tax from 2006 onwards. Our subsidiary Guangzhou NetEase Interactive Entertainment Limited, or Guangzhou NetEase, was recognized as a “Newly Established New and High Technology Enterprise” in April 2003. According to an approval granted by the Guangzhou Tian He State Tax Bureau, Guangzhou Interactive was entitled to a full exemption from EIT in 2003 and 2004. Subsequently, in June and December 2004, Guangzhou Interactive was recognized as a “Software Enterprise” and a “New and High Technology Enterprise” respectively and is subject to a reduced EIT rate of 7.5% from 2005 to 2007. In 2006, Guangzhou Interactive received an exemption from the 3% local tax from 2005 onwards. The preferential EIT treatments that Guangzhou Interactive is entitled to are subject to annual examination by the relevant tax authorities for compliance with the “Software Enterprise” and “New and High Technology Enterprise” status. If these preferential tax treatments were not available to Guangzhou Interactive, Guangzhou Interactive would be subject to EIT at 30% plus a local tax of 3% and the exemption and reduction described above would not apply. Our subsidiary Guangzhou Boguan Telecommunication Technology Limited, or Boguan, was recognized as a “Software Enterprise” on September 2005. As a result, it is exempt from EIT on its profits for 2006 and 2007, and will be taxed at a reduced EIT rate of 15% from 2008 to 2010. Boguan was subject to a 3% local income tax for 2006, and it will be exempt from the 3% local income tax from 2007 onwards. Our subsidiary NetEase Yodao Information Technology (Beijing) Limited, or NetEase Yodao, is currently subject to EIT at the rate of 30% with no local income tax being imposed by the local tax authority. Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and Ling Yi are subject to EIT at an overall income tax rate of 33%. Guangzhou NetEase was recognized as a “High Technology Enterprise” in December 2004. As a result, Guangzhou NetEase was subject to a reduced income tax rate of 15% from year 2004 to 2006. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC adopted a new enterprise income tax law that imposes a single uniform income tax rate of 25% for most domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises. This new law will be effective as of January 1, 2008. It contemplates various transition periods and measures for existing preferential tax policies, including a grace period for as long as five years for foreign-invested enterprises which are currently entitled to a lower income tax rate and continued implementation of preferential tax treatment with a fixed term until the expiration of such fixed term. In addition, under the new enterprise income tax law, foreign investors are not expressly exempted from the income tax on dividends from a foreign-invested enterprise, which exemption is currently available until the effectiveness of the new enterprise income tax law. Furthermore, the new law deems an enterprise established offshore but having its management organ in the PRC as a “resident enterprise” which will be subject to PRC tax on its global income. The term “management organ” has not yet been 16 Table of Contents defined by the PRC government. The new enterprise income tax law empowers the State Council of the PRC to enact appropriate implementing rules and regulations. If the transition periods and measures for existing preferential tax policies are enacted as currently contemplated, any preferential tax treatment enjoyed by our subsidiaries and affiliated companies will terminate at the end of the grace period, which period may be eliminated or significantly shortened by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government may treat us as a resident enterprise under the new enterprise income tax law, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of changes in applicable tax laws. Moreover, since our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, the change in the applicable tax rate will affect the determination of the carrying values of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities of our company. As of June 26, 2007, the date of the audit report contained in this Form 20-F, specific provisions concerning the applicable income tax rates, computation of taxable income, as well as specific preferential tax treatments and their related transitional provisions for the periods from 2008 and onwards, have not been clarified. Consequently, management is not in a position to reasonably assess the impact, if any, to the carrying values of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities that will result from the implementation of the new tax law. The announcement of detailed measures and other related regulations may impact our operating results and financial position in future periods. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. Unexpected network interruption caused by system failures may reduce visitor traffic and harm our reputation. Both the continual accessibility of the NetEase websites and the performance and reliability of our technical infrastructure are critical to our reputation and the ability of the NetEase websites to attract and retain users and advertisers. Any system failure or performance inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce user satisfaction and traffic, which would reduce the NetEase websites’ appeal to users and advertisers. As the number of NetEase Web pages and traffic increase, we cannot assure you that we will be able to scale our systems proportionately. In addition, any system failures and electrical outages could materially and adversely impact our business. 17 Table of Contents Our operations are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events, as we only have limited backup systems. We have limited backup systems and have experienced system failures and electrical outages from time to time in the past, which have disrupted our operations. Most of our servers and routers are currently located at several different locations in China. Our disaster recovery plan cannot fully ensure safety in the event of damage from fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a system shutdown. We do not carry any business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers. Although we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to loss of business and reputation, that may occur. Computer viruses may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce visitor traffic and harm our reputation. Computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect the NetEase websites against the threat of such computer viruses and to alleviate any problems. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system is highly publicized, our reputation could be materially damaged and our visitor traffic may decrease. Computer hacking could damage our systems and reputation. Any compromise of security, such as computer hacking, could cause Internet usage to decline. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may have to spend significant capital and human resources to rectify any damage to our system. In addition, we cannot assure you that any measures we take against computer hacking will be effective. A well publicized computer security breach could significantly damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. Although we have not experienced any hacking activity that allowed unauthorized access to any information stored on our network, caused any loss or corruption of data, software or other computer equipment, we have been subject to denial of service attacks that have caused portions our network to be inaccessible for limited periods of time. In addition, we have had denial of service attacks and viruses or worms introduced into our network. Although we take a number of measures to ensure that our systems are secure and unaffected by security breaches, including ensuring that our servers are hosted at physically secure sites, limiting access to server ports, and using isolated intranets, passwords, and encryption technology, we cannot assure you that any measures we take against computer hacking will be effective. If our providers of bandwidth and server custody service fail to provide these services, our business could be materially curtailed. We rely on affiliates of China Netcom, China Telecom and CERNET to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for Internet users to access the NetEase websites. If China Netcom, China Telecom, CERNET or their affiliates fail to provide such services or raise prices for their services, we may not be able to find a reliable and cost-effective substitute provider on a timely basis or at all. If this happens, our business could be materially curtailed. 18 Table of Contents We may be held liable for information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that are published on the NetEase websites. We are involved in several intellectual property infringement claims or actions and are occasionally subject to defamation claims. We believe that the amounts claimed in these actions, in the aggregate, are not material to our business. However, these amounts may be increased for a variety of reasons as the claims progress, and we and our affiliates could be subject to additional defamation or infringement claims which, singly or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, if successful. We also could be subject to claims based upon content that is accessible on the NetEase websites such as content and materials posted by users on message boards, online communities, voting systems, e-mail or chat rooms that are offered on the NetEase websites. By providing technology for hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third party sites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on any erroneous information distributed by us. Moreover, users of the NetEase Web-based e-mail services could seek damages from us for: • unsolicited e-mails; • lost or misplaced messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail; or • interruptions or delays in e-mail service. We may incur significant costs in investigating and defending these claims, even if they do not result in liability. Information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites may subject us to claims of violating Chinese laws. Violations or perceived violations of Chinese laws arising from information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to the NetEase websites could result in significant penalties, including a temporary or complete cessation of our business. China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. Furthermore, the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party has been given the responsibility to censor news published in China to ensure, supervise and control a particular political ideology. In addition, the PRC Ministry of Information Industry, or MII, has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for content included in their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Furthermore, the MII may implement a requirement that users of blogs register under their real names. If such a regulation is implemented, our business may be negatively affected due to a decrease in the number of blog users. In addition, the Ministry of Public Security has from time to time prohibited the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security also has the authority to require any local Internet service provider to block any website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. 19 Table of Contents The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of state secrets of all PRC government and Chinese Communist Party organizations, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the distribution of online information. The term “state secrets” has been broadly interpreted by Chinese governmental authorities in the past. We may be liable under these pronouncements for content and materials posted or transmitted by users on message boards, virtual communities, chat rooms or e-mails. Furthermore, where the transmitted content clearly violates the laws of the PRC, we will be required to delete it. Moreover, if we consider transmitted content suspicious, we are required to report such content. We must also undergo computer security inspections, and if we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, we may be shut down. In addition, under recently adopted regulations, Internet companies which provide bulletin board systems, chat rooms or similar services, such as our company, must apply for the approval of the State Secrecy Bureau. As the implementing rules of these new regulations have not been issued, we do not know how or when we will be expected to comply, or how our business will be affected by the application of these regulations. If the Chinese government takes any action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through the NetEase websites, or to limit or regulate any current or future community functions available to users or otherwise block the NetEase websites, our business would be significantly harmed. Privacy concerns may prevent us from selling demographically targeted advertising in the future which could make the NetEase websites less attractive to advertisers. We collect demographic data, such as geographic location, income level and occupation, from our registered users in order to better understand users and their needs. We provide this data to online advertisers, on an anonymous aggregate basis, without disclosing personal details such as name and home address, to enable them to target specific demographic groups. If privacy concerns or regulatory restrictions prevent us from collecting this information or from selling demographically targeted advertising, the NetEase websites may be less attractive to advertisers. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secrecy laws and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be effective to prevent unauthorized parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties have initiated litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights, and additional claims may arise in the future. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. See Item 4 “Business Overview—Intellectual Property and Proprietary Rights.” 20 Table of Contents We may be or become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, U.S. investors who owned our ordinary shares or ADSs during any taxable year in which we were a PFIC generally are subject to increased U.S. tax liabilities and reporting requirements for that taxable year and all succeeding years, regardless of whether we actually continue to be a PFIC, although a shareholder election to terminate such deemed PFIC status may be available in certain circumstances. The same adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences will apply to U.S. investors who acquire our ordinary shares or ADSs during the current taxable year of 2007 or any subsequent taxable year if we are treated as a PFIC for that taxable year. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We do not believe that we are currently a PFIC. However, because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the IRS will not challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our possible classification as a PFIC, see “Taxation” below. If our subsidiaries are restricted from paying dividends to us, our primary internal source of funds would decrease. NetEase.com is a holding company with no significant assets other than cash on hand and its equity interests in its subsidiaries NetEase Beijing, NetEase Interactive Entertainment Ltd., or NetEase Interactive, NetEase Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or NetEase Shanghai (which was dissolved in February 2006), Boguan and NetEase Yodao, as well as Guangzhou Interactive and NetEase (Hangzhou) Network Co., Ltd., or NetEase Hangzhou, which are wholly owned subsidiaries of NetEase Interactive. As a result, our primary internal source of funds is dividend payments from our subsidiaries. If these subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn would limit our ability to pay dividends on our American Depositary Shares or to make any required payments to holders of our convertible notes. Under current Chinese tax regulations, dividends paid to us are not subject to Chinese income tax, but PRC tax authorities may require us to amend our contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase, Guangyitong Advertising and their respective shareholders in a manner that would materially and adversely affect the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions to us. In addition, Chinese legal restrictions permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Under Chinese law, NetEase Beijing, Guangzhou Interactive and Boguan are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. 21 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A slow-down in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slow down will not have a negative effect on our business. Recently, the Chinese government announced its intention to use macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, the results of which are difficult to predict. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as expenditures for advertisements and e-commerce and other services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the OECD. These differences include: • economic structure; • level of government involvement in the economy; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • control of foreign exchange; • inflation rates; • methods of allocating resources; and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. 22 Table of Contents Fluctuation in Renminbi exchange rates could adversely affect the value of our American Depositary Shares and any cash dividend declared on them. The value of the Renminbi may fluctuate according to a number of factors. From 1994 to July 21, 2005, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including US dollars, was based on exchange rates published by the People’s Bank of China, which was set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates in China and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. During that period, the official exchange rate for the conversion of Renminbi to US dollars was generally stable. However, on July 21, 2005, as a result of the Renminbi being re-pegged to a basket of currencies, the Renminbi was revalued and appreciated against the US dollar. There can be no assurance that such exchange rate will be stable in the future. Our revenues are primarily denominated in Renminbi, and any fluctuation in the exchange rate of Renminbi may affect the value of, and dividends, if any, payable on, our American Depositary Shares in foreign currency terms. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend payments in US dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. Current account transactions include payments of dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions. As a result, our subsidiaries and affiliates in China may purchase foreign exchange for the payment of dividends to NetEase.com and of license and content fees to offshore software and content partners. In contrast, capital account transactions, which include foreign direct investment and loans, must be approved by the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. All participants in our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors, employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, the capital account department of SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, Hui Zong Fa [2007] No. 78,” or “Circular 78.” It is not clear at this time whether Circular 78 covers only equity compensation plans which provide for the grant of stock options or any type of equity compensation plan, such as a plan which authorizes the grant of restricted share awards. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company such as our company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings by July 5, 2007 if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. Circular 78 has not yet been made publicly available nor formally promulgated by SAFE, but it is our understanding that SAFE has begun enforcing its provisions. Nonetheless, we cannot predict whether 23 Table of Contents it will continue to enforce this circular or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans. If it is determined that our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel, which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees. In that case, our business operations may be materially adversely affected. The Chinese government has strengthened the regulation of investments made by Chinese residents in offshore companies and reinvestments in China made by these offshore companies. Our business may be adversely affected by these new restrictions. The SAFE has adopted new regulations that require registration with, and approval from, Chinese government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by Chinese residents. The SAFE regulations retroactively require registration of investments in non-Chinese companies previously made by Chinese residents. In particular, the SAFE regulations require Chinese residents to file with SAFE information about offshore companies in which they have directly or indirectly invested and to make follow-up filings in connection with certain material transactions involving such offshore companies, such as mergers, acquisitions, capital increases and decreases, external equity investments or equity transfers. In addition, Chinese residents must obtain approval from SAFE before they transfer domestic assets or equity interests in exchange for equity or other property rights in an offshore company. A newly established enterprise in China which receives foreign investments is also now required to provide detailed information about its controlling shareholders and to certify whether it is directly or indirectly controlled by a domestic entity or resident. In the event that a Chinese shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the Chinese subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the Chinese subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above can result in liability under Chinese law for foreign exchange evasion. In accordance with the SAFE regulations, with the exception of companies listed on overseas stock markets, foreign exchange income received by overseas special purpose companies directly or indirectly controlled by Chinese residents for the purpose of raising funds for such Chinese residents’ domestically controlled companies may not be retained by such offshore companies. Moreover, within thirty days of receiving any income, whether directly or indirectly through such overseas special purpose companies, a Chinese resident must remit all such income back to China. These regulations may have a significant impact on our present and future structuring and investment. To comply with these regulations, our founder, William Ding, has successfully filed with Guangdong Branch of SAFE information about NetEase.com and other offshore companies in which he has direct or indirect shareholding. We intend to take all necessary measures for ensuring that all required applications and filings will be duly made and all other requirements will be met. We further intend to structure and execute our future offshore acquisitions in a manner consistent with the new regulations and any other relevant legislation. However, because it is presently uncertain how the SAFE regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted and implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to comply with, qualify under, or obtain any approvals required by the regulations or other legislation. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any PRC shareholders of our company or any PRC company into which we invest will be able to comply with those requirements. The inability of our company or any PRC shareholder to secure 24 Table of Contents required approvals or registrations in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions may subject us to legal sanctions, restrict our ability to pay dividends from our Chinese subsidiaries to our offshore holding company, and restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities or affect our ownership structure. RISKS RELATED TO THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INTERNET INDUSTRIES IN CHINA Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome. Government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become more burdensome. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our customer and user base and limit the access to the NetEase websites. Increased government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries in China may result in the Chinese government requiring us to obtain additional licenses or other governmental approvals to conduct our business which, if unattainable, may restrict our operations. The telecommunications industry, including Internet content provider, or ICP, services and online games, is highly regulated by the Chinese government, the main relevant government authority being the MII. Prior to China’s entry into the WTO, the Chinese government generally prohibited foreign investors from taking any equity ownership in or operating any telecommunications business. ICP services are classified as telecommunications value-added services and therefore fell within the scope of this prohibition. This prohibition was partially lifted following China’s entry into the WTO. Pursuant to the Administrative Rules for Foreign Investments in Telecommunications Enterprises promulgated by the State Council dated December 5, 2001, foreign investors are allowed to hold in the aggregate up to 50% of the total equity in any value-added telecommunications business in China. In addition, foreign and foreign invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating online games in China. To operate the NetEase websites in compliance with all the relevant ICP-related Chinese regulations, Guangzhou NetEase successfully obtained ICP licenses issued by the Guangdong Provincial Telecommunications Bureau in 2000. The ICP license of Guangzhou NetEase issued by the Guangzhou Provincial Telecommunications Bureau was replaced by the Value-Added Telecommunication Operating License issued by the MII in 2004. Guangzhou NetEase has also obtained the following licenses and registrations: a commercial website registration with the Beijing Municipal Administrative Bureau of Industry and Commerce, an audio-visual product operating license issued by Guangdong Culture Department to sell audio-visual products in Internet, an Internet publishing license issued by General Administration of Press and Publication, an Internet culture operating license for online game activities issued by the Ministry of Culture, and a license for online dissemination of drug-related information issued by Guangdong Food and Drug Administration. It has also received approvals for online dissemination of health information from the Department of Health of Guangdong Province and approvals for provision of online education-related information from the Department of Education of Guangdong Province. NetEase.com relies exclusively on contractual arrangements with Guangzhou NetEase and its approvals to operate as an Internet content provider. However, we cannot be certain that we or our affiliates will be granted any other additional license, permit or clearance we may need in the future. Moreover, we cannot be certain that any local or national ICP or telecommunications license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any 25 Table of Contents given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of our services. The PRC began several years ago to regulate its Internet sector by making pronouncements or enacting regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector and the existence and enforcement of content restrictions on the Internet. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations. The PRC government may issue new interpretations of the regulations regarding supervision of the Information industry from time to time. In July 2006, the MII issued a notice to strengthen management of foreign investment in and operation of value-added telecommunication services. The notice emphasizes that foreign investors who wish to engage in value-added telecommunication services must strictly follow the relevant rules and regulations on foreign investment in telecommunication sectors. The notice also prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to the notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication service license or its shareholders must directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice further requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. Value-added services license holders are required to evaluate the compliance with the requirements set forth in the notice. As a result of the foregoing, we plan to transfer several of our domain names and trademarks to Guangzhou NetEase. In addition, we are uncertain as to whether the Chinese government will reclassify our business as a media or retail company, due to our acceptance of fees for Internet advertising, online games and wireless value-added and other services as sources of revenues, or as a result of our current corporate structure. Such reclassification could subject us to penalties or fines or significant restrictions on our business. In addition, NetEase.com may have difficulties enforcing its rights under the agreements with Guangzhou NetEase and Guangyitong Advertising if any of these parties breaches any of the agreements with them because NetEase.com does not have approval from appropriate Chinese authorities to provide Internet content services, Internet advertising services or wireless value-added services. Future changes in Chinese government policies affecting the provision of information services, including the provision of online services, Internet access, e-commerce services and online advertising, may impose additional regulatory requirements on us or our service providers or otherwise harm our business. The PRC government has intensified its regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently one of the primary venues for our users to access the NetEase websites and our services, especially online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés, at which many of our users access the NetEase websites and our services, especially online games. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafés have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet cafe chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may slow down the growth of Internet cafés. In addition, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, one of the government agencies in charge of Internet cafe licensing, and other government agencies jointly issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet cafe licenses for a period of six months. Although such six-month period has ended, we believe based on information available to us that, in practice, such suspension remains in effect. It is unclear when this suspension will be lifted, if at all. So long as Internet cafés are one of the primary venues for our users to access the NetEase websites and 26 Table of Contents our services, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base, thereby reducing our profitability and growth prospects. The Chinese government has taken steps to limit online game playing time for all minors. These and any other new restrictions may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. As part of its anti-addiction online game policy, the Chinese government has taken several steps to discourage minors under the age of 18 from continuously playing online games once they exceed a set number of hours of continuous play. For example, in July 2005, the Ministry of Culture and the MII jointly issued an opinion which requires online game operators to develop systems and software for identity certification, to implement anti-addiction modifications to game rules and to restrict players under eighteen years of age from playing certain games. Subsequently, in August 2005, the General Administration of Press and Publications, or GAPP, proposed an online game anti-addiction system that would have reduced and eliminated experience points that a user can accumulate after three and five hours of consecutive playing, respectively. In March 2006, GAPP amended its proposal to require players to register with their real names and identity card numbers and to apply the anti-addiction system only to players under eighteen years of age. In April 2007, GAPP and several other government authorities jointly promulgated the Notice Concerning the Protection of Minors’ Physical and Mental Well-being and Implementation of Anti-addiction System on Online Games (the “Notice”), which confirmed the real-name verification proposal and requires online game operators to develop and test their anti-addiction systems from April 2007 to July 2007, after which no online games can be registered or operated without an anti-addiction system in accordance with the Notice. Accordingly, we are in the process of implementing our anti-addiction system to comply with the Notice. We are not able to quantify the possible impact of the Notice on our business at this time. Nonetheless, we believe that it will likely have a negative impact of our online games revenue because it will limit the game playing time of players under the age of 18. In addition, it has been reported in the Chinese media that the Chinese government has concerns about the social impact of online games, and it may impose additional regulatory restrictions on us, our customers or otherwise take actions that harm our business. The Chinese government has not enacted any laws regarding virtual asset property rights and, accordingly, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game providers may have for virtual assets. One of the features of our MMORPGs which helps to build a large user base and maintain loyalty is that users can accumulate virtual tools, powers and rankings as they play the games. We believe that these virtual assets are highly valued by our users, particularly long-term users, and are traded among users. However, on occasion, such assets can be lost if, for example, a users’ identity is stolen by another user or we experience a system error or crash. The Chinese government has not enacted any laws regarding virtual assert property rights. Accordingly, we have no basis to determine what are the legal rights, if any, associated with virtual assets and what liabilities we could be exposed to for the loss or destruction of virtual assets. We could therefore potentially be held liable for the way in which we handle and protect virtual assets. The limited use of personal computers in China limits our pool of potential customers and restricts the growth of our business. The Internet penetration rate in China is, and is expected to continue to be, lower than that in the United States and other developed countries. Alternate methods of obtaining access to the Internet, such 27 Table of Contents as through mobile phones, cable television modems or set-top boxes for televisions, are not widely available in China at present. There can be no assurance that the number or penetration rate of personal computers in China will increase rapidly or at all or that alternate means of accessing the Internet will develop and become widely available in China. If significant numbers of Chinese consumers are unable to access the Internet, our ability to grow our business would be impeded. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors. The Chinese market for Internet content and services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. Many companies offer competitive products or services including online games, Chinese language-based Web search, retrieval and navigation services, wireless value-added services and extensive Chinese language content, informational and community features and e-mail. In addition, as a consequence of China joining the WTO, the Chinese government has partially lifted restrictions on foreign-invested enterprises so that foreign investors may hold in the aggregate up to 50% of the total equity ownership in any value-added telecommunications business, including an Internet business, in China. Currently, our competition comes from Chinese language-based Internet portal companies as well as US-based portal companies. Some of our current and potential competitors are much larger than we are, and currently offer, and could further develop or acquire, content and services that compete with the NetEase websites. We also face competition from online game developers and operators, Internet service providers, wireless value-added service providers, website operators and providers of Web browser software that incorporate search and retrieval features. With respect to online games, we believe that more competitors are entering this market in China and that our competitors are becoming more active in both licensing foreign-developed games and developing games in-house, which trends, if they continue, could adversely affect our online games revenues in the future. We believe that competition in the online advertising industry in China has intensified recently as new entrants have come into the market, such as Baidu.com, Inc., Tencent Inc. and other vertical Internet portals. Any of our present or future competitors may offer products and services that provide significant performance, price, creativity or other advantages over those offered by us and, therefore, achieve greater market acceptance than ours. Because many of our existing competitors as well as a number of potential competitors have longer operating histories in the Internet market, greater name and brand recognition, better connections with the Chinese government, larger customer bases and databases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have, we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any increased competition could reduce page views, make it difficult for us to attract and retain users, reduce or eliminate our market share, lower our profit margins and reduce our revenues. 28 Table of Contents 