D. Risk Factors We are subject to various risks resulting from changing competitive, economic, political and social conditions that could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. The risks described below, although not being the only ones we face, are the most important ones. Risks Relating to our Business The market prices for our pulp products are cyclical. The prices we are able to obtain for our products depend on prevailing world prices for market pulp. World pulp prices have historically been cyclical and subject to significant fluctuations over short periods of time depending on a number of factors, including: · global demand for pulp products; · global pulp production capacity and inventories; · strategies adopted by major pulp producers; and · availability of substitutes for our pulp products. All of these factors are beyond our control. 7 Table of Contents Price fluctuations occur not only from year to year but also within a given year as a result of global and regional economic conditions, capacity constraints, mill openings and closures, supply of and demand for both raw materials and finished products, among other factors. As a reference, we use prices published by RISI for North America and prices released by FOEX for Europe and Asia. Through 2011, the global economy impacted the pulp market, which had an uptrend in the first half of the year, but ended the year in a lower level than it started with BEKP average prices at U.S.$865 per ton, U.S.$810 per ton and U.S.$699 per ton in North America, Europe and Asia, respectively. In 2012, the uncertainties surrounding the economic recession in Europe provided an unstable BEKP price environment. After following an upward trend in the first half of 2012, prices presented consecutive weekly decreases during the third quarter, but regained strength in the last three months of the year, leading BEKP prices to an annual average of U.S.$815 per ton in North America, U.S.$751 per ton in Europe and U.S.$635 per ton in Asia. In 2013, prices continued to climb during the most part of the first half of the year, due to relatively stable supply levels and strong demand. Nevertheless , as the summer in the Northern Hemisphere approached, slower seasonal demand introduced prices to a new cycle of decline that lasted until November, when prices started to show signs of recovery, ending the year at an annual average of U.S.$870 per ton in North America, U.S.$791 per ton in Europe and U.S.$673 per ton in Asia. In the beginning of 2014, however, prices were pressured by the new pulp capacities expected to come online during the first half of the year. Prices in all regions dropped until September, when the combination of more robust demand and low inventories levels led producers to implement a price increase effective from the fourth quarter. In 2014, average annual BEKP prices were U.S.$846 per ton in North America, U.S.$745 per ton in Europe and U.S.$609 per ton in Asia. In 2015, prices followed an upward trend for most of the year, reflecting both buoyant demand in all main markets and unexpected supply disruptions. The structurally well balanced market encouraged many BEKP producers to announce four price increases during the year. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the economic downturn in China placed strong pressure on prices and, as a result, the average annual BEKP prices were U.S.$890 per ton in North America, U.S.$784 per ton in Europe and U.S.$641 per ton in Asia. Discounts from list prices are frequently granted by sellers to significant purchasers. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, no assurance can be given that the prices for pulp will stabilize or not decline further in the future, or that demand for our products will not decline in the future. As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to operate our production facilities in a profitable manner in the future. A significant decline in the price of one or more of our products could have a material adverse effect on our net operating revenues, operating income and net income. China’s importance in the global pulp markets has increased in recent years, driven by increasing domestic consumption. Any negative economic development in China could rapidly impact exports, adversely affecting our revenues, cash flow and profitability. According to market statistics (PPPC), Chinese demand represented 30% of the global market pulp demand in 2015 and this consumption has increased at an annual average growth rate of 10.2% since 2005, above the global average of 2.1%. The recent investments in paper and board machines in China have been boosting pulp demand in China; however, the volatility of Chinese demand due to speculative buying movement is a key risk for any short-term demand forecast. Global crises and subsequent economic slowdowns, similar to those that occurred during 2008 and 2009 may adversely affect global pulp demand. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Demand for our pulp products is directly linked to overall economic activity within those international markets in which we sell our products. After a steady period of growth between 2003 and 2007, the marked drop in demand resulting from the global economic crisis of 2008-2009 once again demonstrated the vulnerability of the pulp market to international volatility. From mid 2009 through 2010, the global economy recovered and provided improved conditions for the pulp market. In 2011, the market pulp industry had two distinct phases. During the first half of the year, the global market pulp demand increased by 7.7% over 2010, mostly due to strong Chinese demand. Beginning in July, the European crisis and its effects on the global economy negatively impacted world pulp demand. In 2012, the unstable economic environment continued pressuring pulp demand; however, positive results in emerging regions offset the losses in mature markets, leading to higher pulp demand compared to the previous year. In 2013, however, despite the persistent tepid economic climate, pulp demand grew by 3.2% with improvements seen in almost all major regions of the globe, especially due to higher investments in new paper capacity. According to PPPC, 39 new tissue paper machines were installed in 2013 and other 59 new tissue paper machines were forecast to enter the market in 2014. The weak economic environment persisted through 2014 but the impact of the capacity expansions happened in 2013 in all regions, mainly focused in the tissue market, combined with the installation of other new paper capacities mainly in China during the year, resulted again in higher pulp demand, which presented a 1.5% increase. In 2015, global pulp demand increased by 2.4%. In contrast to previous years, the gradual improvement of developed economies, primarily due to positive results in the main European economic indicators, was one of the key drivers of pulp demand growth, along with the continuing paper capacity expansion in China. 8 Table of Contents A continued decline in the level of activity in either the domestic or the international markets within which we operate could adversely affect both the demand for and the price of our products and have a material adverse effect on us. The deterioration of global economic conditions could, among other things: · further negatively impact global demand for paper, reducing investments in new paper capacity and/or leading to paper mills closures, which would directly impact pulp consumption, or further lower market prices for our products, which could result in a continued reduction of our sales, operating income and cash flows; · make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or to refinance our debt in the future; · impair the financial condition of some of our customers, suppliers or counterparties to our derivative instruments, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers or counterparties; · decrease the value of certain of our investments; and/or · impair the financial viability of our insurers. New projects that have started up and others that are expected to reach the market in the next years may adversely affect our competitiveness. Market players have concluded the new pulp production capacity installations in South America and Asia. Better than expected demand and some adjustments in the supply base, with closures of old and inefficient capacities, supported the balance of market fundaments. It is important to note, however, that there is a risk that the installation of new capacities could result in a possible loss of market share, reduction of pulp prices and shortage of raw materials resulting in increase in wood and others input prices. Therefore, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to adjust production volume in a timely or cost-efficient manner in response to changes in demand. If we have to operate at significant idle capacity during periods of weak demand, we may be exposed to higher unit production costs since a significant portion of our cost structure is fixed in the short-term due to the high capital intensity of pulp operations. In addition, efforts to reduce costs during periods of weak demand could be limited by labor regulations or previous labor or government agreements. Conversely, during periods of high demand, our ability to rapidly increase production capacity is limited, which could render us unable to satisfy demand for our products. If we are unable to satisfy excess customer demand, we may lose market share. Our consolidated indebtedness will require that a portion of our cash flow be used to pay the principal and interest with respect to that indebtedness. As of December 31, 2015, our total consolidated indebtedness amounted to R$12,744 million, of which 91.6% represented long-term indebtedness. The level of our indebtedness could have important consequences to the holders of our ADSs, including the following: · the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to make payments of dividends and other distributions to our shareholders, including the holders of our ADSs; · Investment in pulp production requires a substantial amount of funds in order to form forests, maintain or production capacity, build infrastructure and preserve the environment. This need for significant capital is an important source of financial risk for the pulp industry. Our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes could be limited; · a portion of our cash flow from operations will need to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and may not be available for other purposes; · our level of indebtedness could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business; and · our level of indebtedness could make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. 9 Table of Contents Our exports expose us to political and economic risks in foreign countries. Our sales outside Brazil accounted for 91%, 91% and 92% of our total consolidated net revenues during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our exports, primarily to Europe, North America and Asia, expose us to risks not faced by companies operating solely in Brazil or any other single country. For example, our exports may be affected by import restrictions and tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements. Additionally, the international pulp industry is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors may have greater financial strength and access to cheaper sources of capital, and consequently have the ability to support strategic expenditures directed to increase their market share. Our future financial performance will depend significantly on economic conditions in our principal export markets. Other risks associated with our international activities include: · significant fluctuations in global demand for pulp products, which could impact our sales, operating income and cash flows; · the entrance of new pulp producers or mergers and acquisitions between existing producers, which could limit our competitiveness in the market; · the inability to successfully continue to expand our production capacity at the same pace as our competitors could negatively affect our market share; · the deterioration of global economic conditions could impair the financial condition of some of our customers, suppliers or counterparties to our derivative instruments, thereby increasing customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers or counterparties; · the downward pressure on pulp prices may affect our profitability; · changes in foreign currency exchange rates (against U.S. Dollar) and inflation in the foreign countries in which we operate; · exchange and international trade controls; · changes in a specific country’s or regions economic conditions; · crisis in financial markets and the threat of a global economic slowdown; · cultural differences; such business practices; · adverse consequences deriving from changes in regulatory requirements, including environmental rules, regulations and Certification requirements; · difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex international laws, treaties, and regulations; · adverse consequences from changes in tax laws; and · logistics costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation. While we attempt to manage certain of these risks through the use of risk management programs, it cannot and does not fully eliminate these risks. An occurrence of any of these events may negatively impact our ability to transact business in certain existing or developing markets and have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to regulatory risk associated with our international operations. Fibria is subject to local, regional and international laws and regulations in such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, trademarks, competition, employee health and safety, the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Fibria to civil and/or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal sanctions against us and/or our employees with possible consequences for our corporate reputation. 10 Table of Contents Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our shares and ADSs. Our production costs and operating expenses are substantially denominated in Brazilian Reais and most of our revenue and some assets are denominated in U.S. Dollars. In addition, 90% of our total debt, including swap transactions, is denominated in U.S. Dollars. As a result, exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. It may also affect the amount of dividends we can distribute to our shareholders, including the holders of our ADSs and the market price of our shares and ADSs. In September 2011, the worsening crisis in the Eurozone caused the sudden appreciation of the U.S. Dollar against the Real. As a result, the U.S Dollar appreciated by 12.6% against the Real in 2011. In 2012, the Brazilian Central Bank intervened several times to protect the Real from overvaluation. As a result, in 2012 the U.S Dollar appreciated by 8.9% against the Real. In 2013, the positive outlook of a recovering economy in the US and in the Eurozone caused a rapid depreciation of several Emerging Markets currencies, including the Real. As a result, in 2013 the U.S Dollar appreciated by 14.6% against the Real. In 2014, mainly as a result of Brazil’s macroeconomics scenario and general global uncertainties, the U.S Dollar appreciated by 13.4% against the Real. In 2015, the worsening in Brazil’s economic, political and fiscal conditions resulted in the rating agencies S&P, Fitch and Moody’s downgrading the Brazil sovereign rating below investment grade. As a result the U.S Dollar appreciated by 47% against the Real. See item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Our business may be adversely impacted by risks related to hedging activities. We regularly enter into currency hedging transactions using financial derivatives instruments, through future contracts, options and swaps, in accordance with our Market Risk Management Policy. Hedging transactions aim, among others, to (1) protect our revenue (which is primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars) when converted to Brazilian Reais (our functional currency); (2) convert part of our debt which is denominated in Brazilian Reais into U.S. Dollars; (3) swap floating interest rates of our debt to fixed interest rates; and (4) swap floating monetary variation of our debt to fixed rate. We account for our derivative instruments at fair value, in accordance with IFRS. The fair value of such instruments may increase or decrease due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates, among others, prior to their settlement date. As a result we may incur unrealized losses due to these market risks factors. These fluctuations may also result from changes in economic conditions, investor sentiment, monetary and fiscal policies, the liquidity of global markets, international and regional political events, acts of war, terrorism, among others. In the event the Company ceases undertaking hedging transactions to the extent necessary, the Company may be exposed to commodity price and exchange and interest rate risks. As a result, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of more stringent environmental regulations that would require us to spend additional funds. Furthermore, violations of environmental law, regulations and authorizations could result in significant penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Brazilian environment regulation applicable to forestry assets and to production operations is complex because they encompass federal, state and municipal regulations which involve different requirements and restrictions for each location where the Company operates. As such, the Company can be obligated, among other requirements, to obtain specific permits issues by governmental authorities. The requirements of the laws and regulations that cover these permits can increase the operating costs in order to limit or adjust effects or potential effects on the environment or the health of the Company’s employees. Furthermore, violations of those laws, regulations and authorizations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties for the Company, its management and its employees. The administrative and criminal penalties assessed in the case of non-compliance with environmental legislation are applied independently of the obligation to repair any eventual environmental damage that results. On the civil side, entities that are proven to have contributed to the harm can be held liable for its remediation, which could result in substantial costs for the Company. As a consequence, when the Company engages third parties to act in connection with its operations, such as final disposal of waste, it can be held liable for eventual environmental damage cause by the these third parties. Administrative infractions can result in substantial fines, suspension of operations, suspension of operating permits and imposition of restricted rights (such as barring entering into contracts with public entities, credit restriction, among other), in addition to criminal penalties for the Company. 11 Table of Contents Failure to fulfill these laws, rules and authorizations also can result in the loss of certifications of forestry managements— Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) and Cerflor/Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) — and the certification of environmental management — ISO 14001 — resulting in restrictions on the export of cellulose. In addition, environmental laws and regulations in certain countries may be more stringent than the ones we are subject to in Brazil, which may lead to such countries imposing trade related sanctions against Brazil or our industry. Furthermore, our limited ability to comply with more stringent foreign environmental laws and regulations may prevent us from seeking lower financing cost from foreign governmental related or multilateral development organizations, which may condition future financing on our compliance with more stringent environmental laws and regulations. Actions by federal or state legislatures or public enforcement authorities may adversely affect our operations. In the past, the State of Espírito Santo, where our Aracruz mill is located, has enacted laws to restrict the planting of eucalyptus forests for purposes of pulp production. Although injunctive relief against those state laws has been obtained, and new state legislation has revoked them, there can be no assurance that similar laws will not be enacted in the future which would impose limitations or restrictions on planting eucalyptus in the region where we operate. We may be materially adversely affected if operations at the transportation, storage, distribution and port facilities we own or utilize were to experience significant interruption. Our operations are dependent upon the uninterrupted operation of transportation, storage, distribution and port facilities that we own or utilize. Operations at these facilities could be partially or completely shut down, temporarily or permanently, as a result of any number of circumstances that are not under our control, such as: · catastrophic events; · strikes or other labor difficulties; · other disruptions in means of transportation; and · suspension or termination of concessions granted to us or to our commercial partners or independent contractors relating to the right to provide a specific service. Any significant interruption at these facilities or inability to transport products to or from these facilities (including through exports) or to or from our customers for any reason may materially adversely affect us. Our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover our losses. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that we might incur. We have comprehensive insurance with leading insurers to cover damages to our facilities caused by fire, general third-party liability for accidents and operational risks, and international and domestic transportation. We do not maintain insurance coverage against any risks related to our forests, such as caused by pests and diseases, fire or drought. The occurrence of losses or other damages not covered by insurance or that exceed our insurance limits could result in unexpected additional costs and shortage of wood supply to our mills. “See Item 4. Information on Fibria — B. Business Overview — Insurance.” We face significant competition in some of our lines of business, which may adversely affect our market share and profitability. The pulp industry is highly competitive. In the international pulp market, certain of our competitors may have greater financial strength and access to cheaper sources of capital, and consequently have the ability to support strategic expenditures directed to increase their market share. Our market share may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully continue to expand our production capacity at the same pace as our competitors. In addition, most markets for pulp are served by several suppliers, often from different countries. Many factors influence our competitive position, including mill efficiency and operating rates and the availability, quality and cost of wood, energy, water, chemicals, logistics and labor, and exchange rate fluctuations. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and marketing resources, and greater breadth of product offerings than we do. If we are unable to remain competitive with these producers in the future, our market share may be adversely affected. In addition, downward pressure on the prices of pulp by our competitors may affect our profitability. 12 Table of Contents Delays in the expansion of our facilities or in building new facilities may affect our costs and results of operations. As part of our strategy to increase our international market share and improve our competitiveness through greater economies of scale, we may expand our existing production facilities or build one or more production facilities. We are currently expanding our facilities at Três Lagoas Unit through a brownfield project called Horizonte 2 with a nominal production capacity of 1.85 million metric tons, including the creep capacity of 100 thousand tons. The project is scheduled to start up in the fourth quarter of 2017 and it is currently on time and on budget. For further details please see “Item 4. D —Expansion. Horizonte 2 Project”. The expansion or construction of a production facility involves various risks. These risks include engineering, construction, integration with the existing mill on brownfield projects, regulatory and other significant challenges that may delay or prevent the successful operation of the project or significantly increase our costs. Our ability to complete successfully any expansion or new construction project on time is also subject to financing and other risks. We may be adversely affected because: · we may either not be able to complete any expansion or new construction project on time or within budget or be required by market conditions or other factors to delay the initiation of construction or the timetable to complete new projects or expansions; · our new or modified facilities may not operate at designed capacity or may cost more to operate than we expect; · we may not be able to sell our additional production at attractive prices; and · we may not have the cash or be able to acquire financing to implement our growth plans; and · we may have a negative impact on the existing mill that can result on operational instability. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability of new financing and increase our cost of capital. In late 2008 and early 2009 Fitch, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s reduced our rating to BB+/Negative, Ba1/Negative and BB/Negative, respectively. On October 13, 2009, Fitch further reduced our rating to BB/Stable. After the announcement of the sale of Conpacel and KSR in December 2010 (See Item 4. Information on Fibria — A. History and Development of Fibria) our rating outlook was changed from Stable to Positive by both Fitch and Moody’s. In March 2011, Fitch raised our rating to BB+/Stable. In November and December 2011, respectively, S&P and Moody’s both revised the outlook from positive to stable due to a slower deleverage path. In February 2012, Fitch affirmed Fibria’s rating at BB+/Stable based on the expectation that we will lower debt and leverage during 2012. In February 2013 Fitch changed the rating outlook for Fibria to positive from stable. In March 2013 S&P upgraded Fibria’s rating from BB/positive to BB+/stable. In September 2013 Moody’s changed our outlook from stable to positive. In February 2014 Fitch Ratings upgraded our credit rating to BBB- with a stable outlook, thereby achieving Investment Grade status for this agency. In March 2014 S&P revised our credit rating outlook from stable to positive. In April 2015, S&P upgraded our rating to BBB- with a stable outlook and in November 2015, Moody’s upgraded our rating to Baa3 with a stable outlook, giving us the status of an Investment Grade company for the three rating agencies. S&P and Fitch downgraded Brazil’s sovereign rating from BBB- to BB+ in September 2015 and December 2015, respectively, and also in December 2015 Moody’s placed Brazil’s sovereign rating Baa3 for downgrade. In February 2016, S&P downgraded Brazil’s sovereign rating from BB+ to BB with a negative outlook. After the downgrade actions on Brazil’s sovereign ratings, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch have reaffirmed their BBB-/stable and Baa3/stable ratings for Fibria. The global scale ratings currently assigned to our foreign currency debt are BBB-/Stable by Fitch, BBB-/Stable by S&P and Baa3/Stable by Moody’s. If our ratings were to be downgraded by the rating agencies due to any external factor (which could include a downgrade of the Brazilian sovereign rating), our own operating performance and/or increased debt levels, our cost of capital may increase. Any downgrade could also negatively affect our operating and financial results and the availability of future financing. Our financing agreements include important covenants. Any default arising from a breach of such covenants could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event of a breach of such covenants, or for other factors affecting our financial condition, we may not be permitted to pay, or elect not to pay dividends. We are party to several financing agreements that require us to maintain certain financial ratios or to comply with other specific covenants. These covenants and restrictions, some of which are subject to certain important exceptions, include among others: · limitations on making certain restricted payments; · limitations on entering into certain transactions with affiliates; 13 Table of Contents · limitations as to mergers or consolidations with any other person or selling or otherwise disposing of all or substantially all of our assets; · the maintenance of maximum net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratios; and · the maintenance of minimum debt service coverage ratios. Any default under the terms of our financing agreements that is not waived by the affected creditors may result in a decision by such creditors to accelerate the outstanding balance of the relevant debt. This may also result in the foreclosure on collateral and accelerate the maturity of debts under other financing agreements due to cross acceleration provisions. Our assets and cash flow may be insufficient to pay the full outstanding balance under such financing agreements, either upon their scheduled maturity dates or upon any acceleration of payments following an event of default. If such events were to occur, our financial condition would be adversely affected. Defaults under the terms of our financing agreements may result in our inability to pay dividends. In addition, in accordance with its bylaws, the Company should pay its shareholders 25% of its adjusted annual net income as a compulsory dividend. The net income can be capitalized, used to compensate for a loss or even retained, as contemplated by Law 6,404/76, and therefore not be made available for payment of dividends. The Company can elect to not pay a dividend to its shareholders in its fiscal year if its management demonstrates, and if the general shareholders’ meeting approves, if that such payment would be inadvisable given the financial condition of the Company. Unfavorable outcomes in litigation may negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We are involved in numerous tax, civil and labor disputes involving significant monetary claims. In December 2012, a tax assessment in the amount of R$1.7 billion (see Note 24 to our 2015 Financial Statements) was issued by the Brazilian Federal Tax Authority, or RFB, against us, with respect to Corporate Income Taxes (Imposto de Renda Pessoa Jurídica), or IRPJ, and Social Contribution on Net Income (Contribuição Social Sobre o Lucro Líquido), or CSLL taxes as a result of an agreement signed between Fibria (on that occasion VCP) and International Paper. The subject matter of which was the exchange of industrial and forestry assets between the two companies. We filed an appeal against this decision. See note 24 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements. In October 2013, a tax assessment in the amount of R$271 million, was issued by the RFB against us with respect to IRPJ and CSLL, during the period from 2010 between Fibria Trading International — FTI and Fibria. See note 24 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements. In June 2014, a new tax assessment in the amount of R$272 million, was issued by the RFB against us, with respect to IRPJ, and CSLL, during the period from 2010, between Fibria Trading International — FTI, NORMUS and Fibria. See note 24 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements. In October 2014, a new tax assessment in the amount of R$73 million, was issued by the RFB against us, with respect to IRPJ, and CSLL, on the earnings from investment in offshore subsidiaries during the period from 2009, between VCP Overseas Holding Kft. and Normus in 2009. We filed an appeal with the Brazilian Federal Revenue Service. See note 24 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, a new RFB tax assessment in the amount of R$52 million, was issued for IRPJ and CSLL related to the taxation of the profits earned in the fiscal year of 2011 by FTI (Fibria Trading International) and FAF (Fibria International GMBH) in Brazil. (See note 24 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements). In December 2015, a new RFB tax assessment in the amount of R$549 million was issued for IRPJ and CSLL, as a result of alleged non-deductibility of depreciation, amortization and depletion expenses, during the fiscal year 2010. (See note 24 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements). Additionally, we are continuously being audited by the Brazilian Federal Tax Authority with regard to our international structure, merger and acquisition transactions and the use of tax credits related to our raw materials. If unfavorable decisions are rendered in one or more of these lawsuits, we could be required to pay substantial amounts, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Competition for land for use as eucalyptus forests for purposes of pulp production or for other crops, such as soy beans, sugar cane and other commodities, may affect any eventual expansion. Greater global demand for certain commodities, especially for grains, bio-fuel and animal protein, may impact our forestry operations in two ways: · greater competition for land could impact its price. Grain, bio-fuel and animal protein production generally are economically superior to forestry activities, and as a result, prospective increases in land values may inhibit expansion of new forests. · for the same reason, we may face difficulties in convincing third-party partners to begin or to expand eucalyptus production for use in the pulp industry. We conduct certain of our operations through joint ventures that we do not solely control. In October 2000, Aracruz acquired a 45% stake in Veracel, a joint venture that operates a pulp plant and forests in the south of the State of Bahia. In January 2003, Aracruz increased its equity interest in Veracel to 50%. Stora Enso OYJ, or Stora Enso, owns the remaining 50% of the equity interests in Veracel. We, as legal successor by the merger with Aracruz, and Stora Enso are party to a shareholders’ agreement with respect to Veracel, pursuant to which the parties have the right to nominate an equal number of board members. Under this shareholders’ agreement, each shareholder may be required to make capital contributions and, if any of the parties fails to comply with any of its obligations regarding Veracel’s funding needs in connection with a pre-agreed investment and capital contribution plan, the other shareholder shall have the right to require the defaulting shareholder to transfer all of its equity interests in Veracel to the other shareholder at a discounted market value. In view of our shared control of Veracel as described above, we may not unilaterally make major decisions with respect to this entity. In addition, the existing contractual arrangement with respect to Veracel may constrain our ability to take actions that would be in our best interests, and may prevent us from refraining them from taking actions that would be adverse to our interests. If we are unable to manage potential problems and risks related to acquisitions, and alliances, our business and growth prospects may suffer. Some of our competitors may be better positioned to acquire other pulp business. We may, as part of our business strategy, acquire other businesses in Brazil or elsewhere or enter into alliances. Our management is unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions or alliances will occur, or the likelihood of a material transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Our ability to continue to expand successfully through acquisitions or alliances depends on many factors, including our ability to identify acquisitions and negotiate, finance and close transactions. Even if we complete future acquisitions, we could fail to successfully integrate the operations, services and products of any acquired company. If we attempt to engage in future acquisitions, we would be subject to certain risks, including that: · we could fail to select the best partners or fail to effectively plan and manage any alliance strategy; · the acquisitions could increase our costs; · our management’s attention could be diverted from other business concerns; and · we could lose key employees of the acquired company. Our failure to integrate new businesses or manage new alliances successfully could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Furthermore, the global pulp and paper industry is undergoing consolidation, and many companies compete for acquisition and alliance opportunities in our industry. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. This may reduce the likelihood that we will be successful in completing acquisitions and alliances necessary for the expansion of our business. In addition, any major acquisition we consider may be subject to regulatory approval. We may not be successful in obtaining required regulatory approvals on a timely basis or at all. The loss of certain of our customers or their ability to pay us could cause a significant impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our three largest customers represented 54% of our net revenue in 2015. Although such sales are supported by long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace the sales volumes represented by any of these important customers, the loss of any of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As part of its relationship with its clients, the Company grants payment terms in accordance with its internal evaluation as to the capacity of payment of each client. In the event of a deterioration in such payment capacity, where the credit risk is not covered by 15 Table of Contents trade credit insurance or other credit enhancement, such as letters of credit, including changes that result from the economic, political or regulatory situation of the Company’s clients at any time, such clients capacity to meet their payment obligations could be adversely affected. If a significant number of the Company’s clients become incapable of paying, the Company’s results of operations, including its cash flow, could be materially impacted. We may be subject to labor disputes from time to time that may adversely affect us. Most of our employees are represented by unions or equivalent bodies and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which are subject to periodic renegotiation. In addition, we may not successfully conclude our labor negotiations on satisfactory terms, which may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor or may result in work stoppages or labor disturbances that disrupt our operations. Any such cost increases, work stoppages or disturbances could materially adversely affect us. Social movements and the possibility of expropriation may affect the normal use of, damage, or deprive us of the use of or fair value of, our properties. Activist groups in Brazil advocate land reform and property redistribution by invading and occupying rural areas. Fibria has been working alongside the Landless Workers’ Movement (or MST), the Federal Land Reform Agency (INCRA) and the government of the State of Bahia, and have agreed to design and implement an agroforestry production and settlement model project in 2011. In 2012, the project was launched, benefiting hundreds of families in areas occupied by the MST. We cannot assure that our properties will not be subject to invasion or occupation by these or other activist groups. A land invasion or occupation could materially impair the normal use of our lands or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or the value of our common shares. In addition, our land may be subject to expropriation by the Brazilian government. Under Brazilian law, the federal government may expropriate land that is not in compliance with mandated local “social functions”, including rational and adequate exploitation of land, adequate use of available natural resources, preservation of the environment, compliance with labor laws, etc. If the Brazilian government expropriates any of our properties, our results of operations may be adversely affected to the extent that the government’s compensation proves inadequate. Moreover, we may be forced to accept public debt bonds, which have limited liquidity, instead of cash as compensation for expropriated land. Our controlling shareholders have entered into a Shareholders´Agreement which regulates their power to control us. We are jointly controlled by Votorantim S.A. (current corporate name of Votorantim Industrial S.A.) and BNDESPar. Our controlling shareholders have entered into the First Amendment to the Shareholders Agreement dated October 29, 2014 that regulates their power, including the power to: · elect some members of our Board of Directors; and · determine the outcome of any action requiring shareholder approval, including transactions with related parties, corporate reorganizations and dispositions and the timing and payment of any future dividends. Votorantim S.A. and BNDESPar have entered into the First Amendment to the shareholders’ agreement dated October 29, 2014 under which the approval of certain matters will depend on the affirmative vote of BNDESPar. See “Item 10. Additional Information — C. Material Contracts — Shareholders’ Agreement of Fibria”. In addition, BNDES was the creditor with respect to approximately 15% of our consolidated indebtedness as of December 31, 2015 and we expect to continue to obtain loans from BNDES. As one of our significant shareholders and the subsidiary of one of our important creditors, BNDESPar may exercise a significant influence over our business and corporate decisions, and its actions may be influenced by the policies of the Brazilian federal government, which may conflict with the interest of our shareholders and holders of our ADSs. We currently engage in, and expect in the future to engage in, commercial and financial transactions, from time to time, with our controlling shareholders or their affiliates. Commercial and financial transactions between our affiliates and us create the potential for, or could result in, conflicts of interests. For a discussion of certain related party transactions, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions.” An impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of the Aracruz Acquisition, we have recognized R$4,230 million of goodwill and have recorded several intangible assets from the Aracruz business (including database, patents, chemical supplier and other supplier relationships) with a fair value of 16 Table of Contents R$779 million at the acquisition date (R$230 million as of December 31, 2015 and R$291 million as of December 31, 2014). Under IFRS, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are tested for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment loss may have been incurred. Other intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment. As of December 31, 2015 we performed our annual impairment test of the Goodwill, which is allocated in Cash Generating Units (CGUs) Aracruz, Portocel and Veracel. In addition, as required by IAS 36, when the book value of the net assets of the Company exceeds its market capitalization, an impairment analysis of long-lived assets must be performed. As a result, we performed an impairment analysis of our long-lived assets. The recoverability test did not result in the need to recognize any impairment of goodwill and fixed assets. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 37 to our 2015 consolidated financial statements. Changes in the value of the key assumptions used in the impairment tests could result in impairment charges in the future that could be significant and that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. New laws and regulations relating to climate change and changes in existing regulation, as well as the physical effects of climate change, may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In 1997, an international conference on global warming concluded with an agreement known as the Kyoto Protocol, which has formed the basis for a range of international, national and sub-national proposals and regulations focusing on greenhouse gas reduction based on historical responsibility. . In 2009, Brazil among other countries adopted voluntary targets. Brazil had committed to cut its emissions below projected levels in 2020 and to set domestic targets for curbs on deforestation in its Amazon and Cerrado regions. In December of 2015, countries signed a new global accord, the Paris Agreement, adopting Nationally Determined Contributings (NDCs) as the actions to reduce their emissions after 2020. The Brazilian Intended NDC states increment of biofuels and other renewables in the national energy mix, zero illegal deforestation, reforestation and forest restoration and native forest management enhancement. Although we cannot predict how future climate legislation or regulatory initiatives, whether international or local, or when will be adopted, Fibria has been recognizing these risks, and the Paris Agreement scenario does not substantially change them. We expect that there will be increased regulation related to greenhouse gases and climate change that may materially affect us, directly through increased capital expenditures and investment to comply with such laws, and indirectly, by affecting prices for transportation, energy and other inputs. In addition, the physical effects of climate change also may materially and adversely affect our operations, for example by changing air temperature and water levels, and subjecting us to unusual or different weather-related risks. Both the new laws and regulations related to climate change, changes in existing regulations and the physical effects of climate change could result in increased liabilities and capital expenditures, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Various other risks could have a material adverse effect on our operational and financial results. Our operations are subject to various other risks affecting our forests and manufacturing processes, including fire, drought, disease, strikes, port closings, shipping costs, electrical failures and factory explosions, and limited supply, increased cost and poor quality of inputs in our manufacturing process such as chemicals, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operational and financial results. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic and political conditions and perceptions of these conditions in the international market have a direct impact on our business and our access to international capital and debt markets, and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our production operations are conducted in Brazil but our pulp is mainly sold to international customers in Europe, North America and Asia. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations are in some ways dependent upon economic and political conditions in Brazil. The general cost of human capital, the cost of land (renting or buying) and the other general local supplies are points of concern. Nonetheless, future developments in the Brazilian economy may affect Brazil’s growth rates and, consequently, such supplies. As a result, these developments could impair our business strategies, results of operations or financial condition. The Brazilian government tries to limit unusual market conditions, like supply prices, abnormal speculation and the foreign exchange-rates, frequently intervening in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes material changes in policies and regulations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in government policies as well as general economic and political factors, including but not limited to: · currency fluctuations; 17 Table of Contents · interest rates; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · availability of experienced labor; · policies impacting Brazil’s logistical infrastructure; · policies affecting Brazil’s forestry sector; · tax policy; · exchange control policies; · other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil; and · inflation Brazil has historically experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation, as well as government efforts to combat inflation, had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy, particularly prior to 1995. Inflation rates were 5.9% in 2013,6.4% in 2014 and 10.67% in 2015, according to the Brazilian National Consumer Inflation Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo) or IPCA. Our cash production costs and operating expenses are substantially denominated in Brazilian Reais and tend to increase with Brazilian inflation because our suppliers and providers generally increase prices to reflect the depreciation of the currency. If the rate of Brazilian inflation increases more rapidly than any rate of appreciation of the U.S. Dollar, then, as expressed in U.S. Dollars, our operating expenses may increase. Inflation, actions to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions also may contribute materially to economic uncertainty in Brazil and accordingly weaken investor confidence in Brazil, thus impacting our ability to access the international capital markets. Historically, Brazil’s political scenario has influenced the performance of the Brazilian economy and political crises have affected the confidence of investors and the general public, which resulted in economic slowdown and heightened volatility in the securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies. Brazil’s gross domestic product, or GDP, in real terms, grew by 2.3% in 2013 and 0.1% in 2014, according to Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística — IBGE, Brazil’s official statistics agency. In 2015, GDP had a downturn of 3.71%, according to the Focus Report estimates published by the Brazilian Central Bank. Currently, Brazilian markets are experiencing heightened volatility due to the uncertainties derived from the ongoing Lava Jato investigation, being conducted by the Office of the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor, and its impact on the Brazilian economy and political environment. Members of the Brazilian federal government and of the legislative branch, as well as senior officers of large state-owned companies as well as privately held companies, have faced allegations of political corruption, since they have allegedly accepted bribes by means of kickbacks on contracts granted by the government to several infrastructure, oil and gas and construction companies. The profits of these kickbacks allegedly financed the political campaigns of political parties of the current federal government coalition that were unaccounted for or not publicly disclosed, and personally enriched the recipients of bribes under this bribery scheme. The potential outcome of these investigations is uncertain, but they have already had an adverse impact on the image and reputation of the implicated companies, and on the general market perception of the Brazilian economy. Brazil’s political scenario is further complicated by the ongoing impeachment proceedings against Brazil’s president, Dilma Rousseff. We cannot predict whether such allegations will lead to further political and economic instability or whether new allegations against government officials will arise in the future. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any such allegations nor their effect on the Brazilian economy. Furthermore, future developments in policies of the Brazilian government and/or the uncertainty of whether and when such policies and regulations may be implemented, all of which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to our business The Brazilian government frequently implements changes to tax regimes that may affect us and our customers. These include changes in prevailing tax rates and, occasionally, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. Some of these changes may result in increases in our tax payments, which could adversely affect industry profitability and increase the prices of our products, restrict our ability to do business in our existing and target markets and cause our financial results to suffer. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our projected cash flow and profitability following any increases in Brazilian taxes applicable to us and our operations. 18 Table of Contents We may be impacted by governmental actions affecting the Brazilian markets and economy. The Brazilian government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial influence over many aspects of the private sector. The Brazilian government, for example, could impose some restrictions for the export market, by creating export duties for any product, including our main source of revenues (market pulp), affecting the margins and the profitability of exporting companies. In addition, the Brazilian government through BNDES owns or controls many companies, including some of the largest in Brazil. For example, the BNDES, through its wholly-owned subsidiary company, BNDESPar, is a joint controlling shareholder of our Company together with Votorantim S.A., as per shareholder agreement terms, and so has historically been one of our important creditors. Fluctuations in interest rates could increase the cost of servicing our debt and negatively affect our overall financial performance. Our financial results are affected by changes in interest rates, such as the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Brazilian Interbank Deposit Certificate (Certificado de Depósito Interbancário known as CDI) and the Brazilian Long Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo known as or TJLP). The CDI rate has fluctuated significantly in the past in response to the expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, inflation control purpose, Brazilian government policies and other factors. The CDI rate was 14.14% p.a., 11.57% p.a. and 9.77% p.a. as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The TJLP was reduced from 5.5% p.a. on June 27, 2012 to 5.0% p.a. on December 31, 2012 until December 31, 2014. After gradually increasing during 2015, the TJLP rate as of December 31, 2015 was 7.5% p.a. A significant increase in interest rates, particularly TJLP or LIBOR, would have a material adverse effect on our financial expenses due to the fact that a significant part of our debt (BNDES loans and Export Prepayment Facilities) is linked to these rates. On the other hand, a significant reduction in the CDI rate could adversely impact the financial revenues derived from our investment activities since a relevant part of our cash is invested in Brazilian money market, linked to CDI. In order to mitigate these risks and benefit from the abnormal lower interest rates, we have contracted several swaps from LIBOR and TJLP to Pre Fixed rates. See “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Economic and market conditions in other countries, including in developing countries, may materially and adversely affect the Brazilian economy and, therefore, the market value of our ADSs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced by economic and market conditions in Brazil, and, to varying degrees, market conditions in other countries, including Latin American and developing countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country may cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. Developments or conditions in other countries, including developing countries, have at times significantly affected the availability of credit in the Brazilian economy and resulted in considerable outflows of funds and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in Brazil. It has also limited access to international capital markets, all of which may materially and adversely affect our ability to borrow funds at an acceptable interest rate or to raise equity capital when and if there should be a need for us to do so. The volatility in market prices for Brazilian securities has increased from time to time, and investors’ perception of increased risk due to crises in other countries, including developing countries, may also lead to a reduction in the market price of our ADSs. An electricity shortage and related electricity rationing may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Hydroelectric power is a major source of energy for Brazilian industry. Low levels of investment and below average rainfall have in the past resulted in low reservoir levels of critical hydroelectric capacity in Brazil’s southeast, central west and northeast regions. Alternative sources of power generation have often been delayed due to regulatory and other issues. During the period of 2000 and 2001, for example, the Brazilian government instituted a rationing and consumption reduction program to reduce electricity consumption from mid-2001 to early 2002. This program established limits on energy consumption by industrial, commercial and residential users. In 2015, we generated internally approximately 117% of the electric energy requirements for our pulp production process. Of the total amount of thermal and electrical energy we self-generated, 90% was from renewable fuels, such as biomass and black liquor that are byproducts of the pulp production process, and 10% was from non-renewable fuels that we purchased, such as fuel oil and natural gas. Nonetheless, if Brazil experiences shortages in available electricity (whether due to hydrological conditions, infrastructure limitations or otherwise), similar or other policies may be put into place to limit or ration electrical power utilization. Although we believe we are adequately prepared with respect to energy since we are self-sufficient and even sell the overflow electric energy to the Brazilian grid, our sales may be adversely affected by the negative effect the energy shortage may have on the macroeconomic environment. In addition, we may also be adversely affected by the impact of the energy shortage on the activities of our main suppliers of raw materials. Any such shortage and related electricity rationing could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Drought in some regions of Brazil, resulting in water scarcity and related rationing, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Other impacts on water supply, such as environmental problems and regulatory restrictions, could adversely affect our business and result of operations. Some regions of Brazil are currently experiencing drought conditions, resulting in acute shortage of water and the implementation of rationing to control usage. Although we believe that not all of our operations will be affected by these conditions, certain of our units are located in the affected areas. Although our units are already very efficient is water use, we continue to improve the mill’s efficiency in water consumption and have defined a contingency plans for all the possible affected units, if required. Nevertheless, we cannot assure that very severe droughts or governmental measures to address drought conditions will not have the effect of impacting our units’ operations, with the resulting adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Other impacts on the water supply, such as the recent environmental catastrophe affecting the Rio Doce, or regulatory actions to limit access to water could have a significant and adverse effect on our business operations. For example, as a consequence of the mine tailings contamination of the Rio Doce, our Aracruz unit was required to suspend its use of water from that river for its operations for a short period of time. No impact was recorded, however, because the Aracruz Unit has a reservoir sufficient to sustain it for up to five months, which had at the time of the accident at least 90 days of water supply. Nonetheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental events or governmental regulatory action will not materially adversely affect the access to sufficient water for our operations. Risks Relating to Our Shares and ADSs Exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad may adversely affect holders of our ADSs. One may be adversely affected if the Brazilian government imposes restrictions on the remittance to foreign investors of the proceeds of their investments in Brazil and, as it has done in the past, on the conversion of the Real into foreign currencies. These restrictions could hinder or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale of shares or ADSs, as the case may be, into U.S. Dollars and the remittance of U.S. Dollars abroad. We cannot assure that the government will not take this type of or similar measures in the future. Holders of our ADSs could be adversely affected by delays in, or a refusal to grant, any required governmental approval for conversion of Real payments and remittances abroad in respect of the shares, including the shares underlying the ADSs. In such a case, our ADS depositary will distribute Reais or hold the Reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are organized under and are subject to the laws of Brazil and all our directors and executive officers and our independent registered public accounting firm resides or is based in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of the ADSs to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, our ADS holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests due to actions by us, our directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may adversely affect holders of our ADSs. Investments in securities, such as our common shares or ADSs, of issuers from emerging market countries, including Brazil, involves a higher degree of risk than investments in securities of issuers from more developed countries. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. These features may substantially limit the ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which holders wish to do so. At December 31, 2015, the aggregate market capitalization of the 60 companies listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange Index (Ibovespa) was equivalent to approximately U.S.$408 billion, and the ten largest companies listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange Index represented approximately 62% of the market capitalization in the year. In comparison, the 504 companies listed in the S&P 500 had a market capitalization of approximately U.S.$18 trillion as of December 31, 2015. A liquid and active market may never develop for our common shares or ADSs, and as a result, the ability of our ADS holders to sell at the desired price or time may be significantly hindered. 20 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company and our shareholders may have fewer and less well-defined rights. Holders of ADSs are not direct shareholders of our Company and are unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our Bylaws and the Brazilian law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Bylaws and the Brazilian law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Under Brazilian law, the rights of a holder of our common shares to protect its interests with respect to actions by us, our directors or executive officers may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares or ADSs at a potential disadvantage. In addition, the disclosure required of public companies in Brazil may be less complete or informative than that required of publicly-held companies in the United States or in certain other countries. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise their voting rights. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise voting rights with respect to their underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement for our ADS program, or the Fibria Deposit Agreement. Under this Agreement, ADS holders may only vote by giving voting instructions to our Depositary. Because our Depositary appears on our share register and not the ADS holders, such holders are unable to exercise their right to vote without the representation of our Depositary unless they surrender their ADSs for cancellation in exchange for our common shares. In addition, pursuant to the Fibria Deposit Agreement, our Depositary will only notify our ADS holders of an upcoming vote and arrange to mail proxy cards to those holders if we request our Depositary to do so. Pursuant to our bylaws, the first call for a shareholders’ meeting must be published at least 15 days in advance of the relevant meeting, and the second call must be published at least eight days in advance of the meeting, in the case of insufficient quorum to approve the matters included in the first meeting. As a result, there may not be enough time for ADS holders to surrender their ADSs and withdraw underlying common shares, or for them to receive a proxy card in time to ensure that they can provide our Depositary with voting instructions. Our Depositary and its agents are not liable for failure to mail proxy cards in time for ADS holders to vote the common shares underlying their ADSs or to carry out voting instructions in the manner as instructed or at all. As a result, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise the voting rights attached to the common shares underlying their ADSs. An exchange of ADSs for shares risks the loss of certain foreign currency remittance and Brazilian tax advantages. The ADSs benefit from the certificate of foreign capital registration, which permits our Depositary to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to common shares into foreign currency, and to remit the proceeds abroad. Holders of ADSs who exchange their ADSs for common shares will then be entitled to rely on the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, they will not be able to remit non-Brazilian currency abroad unless they obtain their own certificate of foreign capital registration, or unless they qualify under Resolution No. 2,689/00 of the National Monetary Council (CMN - Conselho Monetário Nacional), which entitles certain investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate certificates of registration. If holders of ADSs do not qualify under Resolution No. 2,689/00, they will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on distributions with respect to our common shares. There can be no assurance that the certificate of registration of our Depositary, or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by holders of ADSs, will not be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, or that additional Brazilian law restrictions applicable to their investment in the ADSs may not be imposed in the future. Holders of our shares will be subject to, and holders of our ADSs could be subject to, Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of shares or ADSs. Brazilian Law No. 10,833/03 provides that gains on the disposition of assets located in Brazil by non-residents of Brazil, whether to other non-residents or to Brazilian residents, will be subject to Brazilian taxation. The common shares are expected to be treated as assets located in Brazil for purposes of the law, and gains on the disposition of common shares, even by non-residents of Brazil, are expected to be subject to Brazilian taxation. In addition, the ADSs may be treated as assets located in Brazil for purposes of the law, and therefore gains on the disposition of ADSs by non-residents of Brazil may also be subject to Brazilian taxation. Although the holders of ADSs outside Brazil may have grounds to assert that Law No. 10,833/00 does not apply to sales or other dispositions of ADSs, it is not possible to predict whether that understanding will ultimately prevail in the courts of Brazil given the general and unclear scope of Law No. 10,833/03 and the absence of judicial court rulings in respect thereto. 21 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the shares. Holders of our ADSs may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common shares underlying their ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) is effective with respect to the rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares or other securities relating to these preemptive rights and we cannot assure holders of our ADSs that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration applies, holders of our ADSs may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the depositary or, if the preemptive rights cannot be sold, the rights will be allowed to lapse. Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our shares will be payable only in Reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the common shares, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than Reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than Reais may only be satisfied in Brazilian currency at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange rate may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the common shares or the ADSs. 