Risk Factors” section: • our ability to retain and increase sales to existing clients, attract new clients and satisfy our clients’ requirements; • general economic, industry and market conditions; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • the mix of revenue between subscription arrangements, professional services and license arrangements as sales commissions are generally expensed ratably over the term of an agreement for subscription services, and expensed when invoiced for license arrangements and professional services; • changes in the mix of revenue between recurring revenue and professional services revenue, because the gross margin on professional services is typically lower than the gross margin on recurring revenue; • changes in the mix of voice self-service applications sold and/or usage volume, because the gross margin on voice self-service applications is typically lower than the gross margin on our sales, marketing, feedback and service applications; • the timing of contracts signed and amount of usage fees; • the timing and success of new product introductions or upgrades by us or our competitors; • the timing of professional service sales and our ability to appropriately staff and train professional service resources without negatively impacting professional service margins; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the amount and timing of expenditures related to expanding our operations; • stock price volatility, employee exercise behaviors, and stock option or restricted stock unit forfeiture rates, or changes in the number of stock options or restricted stock units granted and vesting requirements in any particular period, which effects the amount of stock-based compensation expense; • changes in the payment terms for our products and services, including changes in the mix of payment options chosen by our customers; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our clients; and • changes in tax rate affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses arising from the requirement to expense stock options and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including our ability to use our net operating losses. 17 Table of Contents Because the sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our solutions typically ranges from 60 to 180 days, we may also experience a delay between increasing operating expenses and the generation of corresponding revenue, if any. Moreover, because most of the revenue from new sales agreements is recognized over time, downturns or upturns in sales may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. Additionally, our professional service margins may be negatively impacted by training requirements for new professional service resources and/or customer scheduling issues. Most of our expenses, such as salaries and third-party hosting co-location costs, are relatively fixed in the short-term, and our expense levels are based in part on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to proportionally reduce operating expenses for that quarter, causing a disproportionate effect on our expected results of operations for that quarter. Due to the foregoing factors, and the other risks discussed in this report, you should not rely only on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Failure to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions. Increasing our client base and achieving broader market acceptance of our solutions may depend to a significant extent on the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs/operations. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts do not maximize revenue per sales and marketing headcount. We may not effectively develop and maintain awareness of our CX brand in a cost-effective manner, not achieve widespread acceptance of our existing and future services and fail to expand and attract new customers. We also may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from our third-party channel partners if we are unable to attract and retain additional motivated channel partners, if any existing or future channel partners fail to successfully market, resell, implement or support our solutions for their customers, or if they represent multiple providers and devote greater resources to market, resell, implement and support competing products and services. Most of our solutions are sold pursuant to time-based agreements, and if our existing clients elect not to renew or to renew on terms less favorable to us, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Prior to January 2010, our solutions had primarily been sold pursuant to time-based agreements that had been typically subject to renewal every two years or less and our clients have no obligation to renew. Beginning January 2010, we introduced the Cloud Services Agreement (CSA), which includes longer terms and annual customer termination for convenience provisions. If cancellations under the CSA increase, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our time-based agreements with the federal government are subject to annual appropriated funding. Because our clients may elect not to renew, or the federal government may not appropriate funding, we may not be able to consistently and accurately predict future renewal rates. Our clients’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions, their ability to continue their operations or invest in customer service, or the availability and pricing of competing products. If large numbers of existing clients do not renew, or renew on terms less favorable to us, and if we cannot replace or supplement those non-renewals with new agreements generating the same or greater level of revenue, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We have experienced growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges. To achieve our business objectives, we will need to continue to expand our business at an appropriate pace. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We anticipate that expansion will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Part of the challenge that we expect to face in the course of our expansion is to maintain the high level of customer service to which our clients have become accustomed. To date, we have focused on providing personalized account management and customer service on a frequent basis to ensure our clients are effectively leveraging the capabilities of our solution. We believe that much of our success to date has been the result of high client satisfaction, attributable in part to this focus on client service. To the extent our client base grows, we will need to expand our account management, client service and other personnel, and third-party channel partners, in order to enable us to continue to maintain high levels of client service and satisfaction. If we are not able to continue to provide high levels of client service, our reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations, could be harmed. General economic conditions could adversely affect our clients’ ability or willingness to purchase our products, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our clients consist of large, medium and small companies in nearly all industry sectors and geographies. Potential new clients or existing clients could defer purchases of our products because of unfavorable macroeconomic conditions, such as fluctuations in currency exchange rates, industry purchasing patterns, industry or national economic downturns, rising interest rates, and other factors. Our ability to grow revenues may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions. Starting in 2008 there has been deterioration in global economic conditions due to many factors, including the credit market crisis, reduced credit availability, bank failures, slower economic activity, significant expense reductions, bankruptcies, concerns about inflation, recessionary conditions, and general adverse business conditions. These conditions could lead to fewer sales of our products, longer sales cycles, customers requesting longer payment terms, customers failing to pay amounts due, and slower collections of accounts receivable. All of these factors could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow from operations, and our financial position. In addition, we may be forced to respond to an economic downturn by contracting operations, which we may have difficulties managing in a timely fashion. If there are interruptions or delays in our hosting services through third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients and subject us to liability. As of December 31, 2010, over 95% of our clients were using our hosting services for deployment of our software applications. We generally provide our hosting services for our applications through computer hardware that we own or lease and that is currently located in third-party web hosting co-location facilities maintained and operated in California, Illinois, the Netherlands, New Jersey and England. Some of our Canadian customers are hosted on equipment that is owned and operated by a Canadian partner, and some of our U.S. Department of Defense customers are hosted on equipment that is owned by the Defense Information Services Agency. With our recent acquisition of Q-go we also have the use of a data center in the Netherlands through a managed service contract, using equipment that is leased from a third party. In addition, our voice applications for several international customers are hosted by third parties who also own and operate the hardware on which our applications reside. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with any of our hosting providers, and providers do not guarantee that our clients’ access to hosted solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on our providers’ ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Our back-up computer hardware and systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring simultaneously at all hosting facilities. In the event that our hosting facility arrangements were terminated, or there was a lapse of service or accidental or willful damage to such facilities, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our hosting service as well as delays and/or additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Any or all of these events could cause our clients to lose access to their important data. In addition, the failure by our third-party hosting facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. 19 Table of Contents Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our clients’ service to their customers. Any interruptions or delays in our hosting services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, and cause us to issue credits or pay penalties or cause clients to fail to renew their licenses, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Additionally, beginning the first quarter of 2009, we have a software as a service level credit program, which provides for a partial rebate if we fall short of our system availability objective. If we fail to meet this objective for one or all of our customers, we may have to pay a substantial amount of money, which may impact cash reserves, revenue recognition, and our reputation. If the security of our clients’ confidential information contained in our systems or stored by use of our software is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our hosting service or our software may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our hosting service and our solutions. Our hosting systems and our software store and transmit proprietary information and critical data belonging to our clients and their customers. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to a risk of information loss, litigation and other possible liabilities. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our clients’ data, our relationships with clients and our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we and our third-party hosting co-location facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If we fail to respond effectively to rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards, particularly in the on-demand CRM industry, our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete. The CRM industry is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in client requirements, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. Our hosted business model and the on-demand CRM market are relatively new and may evolve even more rapidly than the rest of the CRM market. Competing products and services based on new technologies or new industry standards may perform better or cost less than our solutions and could render our solutions less competitive or obsolete. In addition, because our solutions are designed to operate on a variety of network hardware and software platforms using a standard internet web browser, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our solutions to keep pace with changes in internet-related hardware, software, communication, browser and database technologies and to integrate with our clients’ systems as they change and evolve. Furthermore, uncertainties about the timing and nature of new network platforms or technologies, or modifications to existing platforms or technologies, could increase our research and development expenses. If we are unable to successfully develop and market new and enhanced solutions that respond in a timely manner to changing technology and evolving industry standards, and if we are unable to satisfy the diverse and evolving technology needs of our clients, our business, financial condition and results of operations will suffer. Our failure to attract and retain qualified or key personnel may prevent us from effectively developing, marketing, selling, integrating and supporting our products. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree upon the skills, experience, performance and continued service of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing, service, support and other key 20 Table of Contents personnel. Specifically, we believe that our future success is highly dependent on Greg Gianforte, our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In addition, we do not have employment agreements with any of our senior management or key personnel that require them to remain our employees and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time without penalty. If we lose the services of Mr. Gianforte or any of our other key personnel, our business will be severely disrupted and we may be unable to operate effectively. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our key employees. Our future success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, integrate, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly sales, marketing and professional services personnel, software engineers, product trainers, and senior personnel. Our failure to attract, manage, support and retain qualified partners may prevent us from effectively deploying product and professional services. Our success and future growth depends in part upon the skills, experience, performance and continued service of our partners. We engage with partners in a number of ways, including assisting us to identify prospective customers, to distribute our solutions, to develop complementary solutions, and to help us to fulfill professional services engagements. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop strategic, long term and profitable partnerships. If we do not acquire and retain the right partners, our products might become uncompetitive, we may be unable to take full advantage of the potential demand for our solutions, or our ability to rapidly deliver our solutions may be impaired. The use of partners to fulfill customer requirements may impact our normal margins, and affect the profitability of customer transactions. If our solutions fail to perform properly or if they contain technical defects, our reputation will be harmed, our market share would decline and we could be subject to product liability claims. Our software products may contain undetected errors or defects that may result in product failures, slow response times, or otherwise cause our products to fail to perform in accordance with client expectations. Because our clients use our products for important aspects of their business, any errors or defects in, or other performance problems with, our products could hurt our reputation and may damage our clients’ businesses. If that occurs, we could lose future sales, or our existing clients could elect to not renew or to delay or withhold payment to us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable. Clients also may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in the expense and risk of litigation. Product performance problems could result in loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance and the diversion of development resources. If one or more of our products fails to perform or contains a technical defect, a client may assert a claim against us for substantial damages, whether or not we are responsible for the product failure or defect. We do not currently maintain any warranty reserves. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant settlements or damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such product liability claims. Also, our insurer may disclaim coverage. Our liability insurance also may not continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, in sufficient amounts, or at all. Any product liability claims successfully brought against us would cause our business to suffer. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed or we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our software and other proprietary technology rights. We rely on trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, patents and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which offer only limited protection. The steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the reverse engineering of our solutions. We may not be able to obtain any further patents or trademarks, and our pending applications may not result in the issuance of patents or trademarks. Any of our issued patents may 21 Table of Contents not be broad enough to protect our proprietary rights or could be successfully challenged by one or more third parties, which could result in our loss of the right to prevent others from exploiting the inventions claimed in those patents. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in other countries are uncertain and may afford little or no effective protection of our proprietary technology. Consequently, we may be unable to prevent our proprietary technology from being exploited abroad, which could diminish international sales or require costly efforts to protect our technology. Policing the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Our product development efforts may be constrained by the intellectual property of others, and we may become subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could be costly and time-consuming. The software and internet industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and by frequent litigation based upon allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we seek to extend our customer experience product and service offerings, we may be constrained by the intellectual property rights of others. We have in the past been named as a defendant in a lawsuit alleging intellectual property infringement, and we may again in the future have to defend against intellectual property lawsuits. We may not prevail in any future intellectual property infringement litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in litigation. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could be time-consuming and distracting to management, result in costly litigation or settlement, cause product development delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. If any of our products violate third-party proprietary rights, we may be required to re-engineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Because our sales agreements typically require us to indemnify our clients from any claim or finding of intellectual property infringement, any such litigation or successful infringement claims could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any efforts to re-engineer our products, obtain licenses from third parties on favorable terms or license a substitute technology may not be successful and, in any case, may substantially increase our costs and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our software products contain open source software components that are licensed to us under various public domain licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software that we use, there is little or no case law governing the interpretation of many of the terms of certain of these licenses and therefore the potential impact of such terms on our business is somewhat unknown. Use of open source standards also may make us more vulnerable to competition because the public availability of open source software could make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce similar competing products quickly and cheaply. The market for our on-demand application services is not at the same stage of development as traditional on-premise enterprise software, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. The market for on-demand application services is not as mature as the market for traditional on-premise enterprise software, and it is uncertain whether these application services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to increase their use of on-demand application services in general and for on-demand RightNow CX applications in particular. The willingness of companies to increase their use of any on-demand application services is in part dependent on the actual and perceived reliability of hosted solutions. These perceptions may differ among countries. In addition, many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or 22 Table of Contents unwilling to migrate to on-demand application services. While we have supported traditional on site deployment of our software applications, widespread market acceptance of our on-demand software solutions is critical to the success of our business. Other factors that may affect the market acceptance of our solutions include: • on-demand security capabilities and reliability; • concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage critical customer data; • the level of customization we offer; • our ability to continue to achieve and maintain high levels of client satisfaction; and • the price, performance and availability of competing products and services. If businesses do not perceive the benefits of on-demand solutions in general, or our on-demand solutions in particular, then the market for these solutions may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our efforts to enhance existing solutions, introduce new solutions or expand the applications for our products and solutions to broader CRM markets do not succeed, our ability to grow our business will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully develop and sell new and enhanced versions of our solutions, or introduce new solutions for the customer service market, our financial performance will suffer. In recent years, we have expanded our CRM solution offering to include sales, marketing, feedback, social, natural language and voice-enabled applications. Additionally, we have focused on eService solutions to call centers. Our efforts to expand our solution in order to improve the customer experience may not be successful in part because certain of our competitors may have greater experience or brand recognition in the market or because they have greater financial resources that they can use to develop or acquire superior products. In addition, our efforts to expand our on-demand software solutions may divert management resources from our existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to a market where we are less proven, which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently completed and/or future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and results of operations. In order to expand our addressable market, we may decide to acquire additional businesses, products and technologies. In January 2011, we acquired Q-go.com B.V. The acquisition of Q-go.com and any potential future acquisitions could require significant capital infusions into the acquired business and could involve many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require incurring large one-time charges, substantial debt or liabilities; it may require the amortization or write down of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets; or it may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges; • we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; • our existing and potential clients and the customers of the acquired company may delay purchases due to uncertainty related to an acquisition; • an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; • the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs and could result in material asset impairment charges; 23 Table of Contents • we may have to issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and • acquisitions may involve the entry into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all. If we do pursue any future acquisitions, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisitions or that the financial markets or investors will negatively view the acquisitions. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles and accompanying accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as software revenue recognition, accounting for stock-based compensation, internal use software capitalization, unanticipated ambiguities in fair value accounting standards and income tax uncertainties, are complex and involve subjective judgments by management. Changes to generally accepted accounting principles, their interpretation, or changes in our products or business could significantly change our reported earnings and financial condition and could add significant volatility to those measures. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We may require additional capital to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new solutions or enhance our existing solutions, enhance our operating infrastructure, fund expansion, respond to competitive pressures and acquire complementary businesses, products and technologies. Absent sufficient cash flow from operations, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds to meet our operating and capital needs. In addition, even though we may not need additional funds, we may still elect to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital, to pay dividends and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, if we decide to raise funds through debt or convertible debt financings, we may be unable to meet our interest or principal payments. Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows from operations. As a result of our sale of $175.0 million of 2.50% convertible senior notes in November 2010 (the “Notes”), we now have long-term debt that we have not had to maintain in the past. Our maintenance of indebtedness could have important consequences because: • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • an increased portion of our cash flows from operations may have to be dedicated towards making semi-annual interest payments and repaying the principal in 2015; • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our ability to generate sufficient cash to pay our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. If we are 24 Table of Contents at any time unable to generate sufficient cash to pay our debt obligations, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of our debt obligations, seek to refinance all or a portion of our debt obligations or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Failure to make a payment on our debt obligations could also result in acceleration of all of our debt obligations, including the Notes, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, including additional shares associated with the potential conversion of the Notes, and thereby materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes and cause dilution to existing stockholders. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of our common stock or other instruments convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, shares of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or instruments convertible into shares of our common stock, it may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Because the Notes are convertible into shares of our common stock, volatility or depressed prices of our common stock could have a similar effect on the trading price of the Notes. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling in our common stock by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including upon conversion of some or all of the Notes, will also dilute the ownership interests of existing holders of our common stock. Dilution will be greater if the conversion rate of the Notes is adjusted upon the occurrence of certain events. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change or at the option of the holders of the Notes on certain dates. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the fundamental change repurchase price if holders submit their Notes for repurchase by us upon the occurrence of fundamental change or at the option of the holders of the Notes on certain dates. If we fail to repurchase the Notes that are tendered for repurchase, we will be in default under the indenture governing the Notes. Our inability to pay for the Notes that are tendered for repurchase could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The fundamental change provisions in the Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us. The fundamental change purchase rights in the Notes, which allow Note holders to require us to purchase all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and the provisions requiring an increase to the conversion rate for conversions in connection with a make-whole fundamental change could make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire us, which could discourage transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to investors. We cannot assure our stockholders that our stock repurchase program will enhance long-term stockholder value and stock repurchases, if any, could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and will diminish our cash reserves. On November 17, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a $15 million increase (for a total of $25 million) to our common stock repurchase program that was previously announced July 28, 2010. The additional authorization became effective November 19, 2010. The repurchase program will stay in place until November 2012. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased, if any, depend on a variety of factors including the timing of open trading windows, price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and 25 Table of Contents other market conditions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice. Repurchases pursuant to our stock repurchase program could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a stock repurchase program could also cause our stock price to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, repurchases under our stock repurchase program will diminish our cash reserves, which could impact our ability to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions and could result in lower overall returns on our cash balances. There can be no assurance that any further stock repurchases will enhance stockholder value because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock. Although our stock repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness. The success of our products and our hosted business depends on the continued use of the internet as a business and communications tool, and the related expansion of the internet infrastructure. The future success of our products and our hosted business depends upon the continued and widespread use of the internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication and business applications. Our business growth would be impeded if the performance or perception of the internet, or companies providing hosted solutions, was harmed by security problems such as “viruses,” “worms” and other malicious programs, reliability issues arising from outages and damage to internet infrastructure, delays in development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of internet activity, increased costs, decreased accessibility and quality of service, or increased government regulation and taxation of internet activity. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws affecting data privacy, the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information, the use of the internet as a commercial medium and the use of email for marketing or other consumer communications. These laws or charges could limit the growth of internet-related commerce or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the internet and the viability of internet-based services such as ours and reduce the demand for our products. The internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant user and traffic growth, which has, at times, caused user frustration with slow access and download times. If internet activity grows faster than internet infrastructure or if the internet infrastructure is otherwise unable to support the demands placed on it, or if hosting capacity becomes scarce, our business growth may be adversely affected. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may adversely affect our business or reduce sales of our solutions. Businesses using our solutions collect personal information regarding their customers when those customers contact them with customer service inquiries. A valuable component of our solutions is their ability to allow our clients to use and analyze their customers’ information to increase sales, marketing and up-sell or cross-sell opportunities. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted and are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our clients may limit the use and adoption of this component of our solutions and reduce overall demand for our solutions. Furthermore, even where a client desires to make full use of these features in our solutions, privacy concerns may cause our clients’ customers to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our clients to use our solutions most effectively. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market acceptance of our products. Domestic and international laws and regulations, and legislative and regulatory initiatives, may adversely affect our clients’ ability to collect and/or use demographic and personal information from their customers, which could reduce demand for our solutions. A number of countries, including European Union members and Japan, have imposed restrictions, more stringent than those in the U.S., on the collection and use of personal data that impose significant burdens on subject businesses. If we fail to comply with those more stringent 26 Table of Contents requirements or there is a perception in those countries that we are non-compliant our sales in those countries may be adversely affected. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and direct marketing industries may implement new self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If the gathering of profiling information were to be curtailed in this manner, customer service CRM solutions may be less effective, which would reduce demand for our solutions and harm our business. The significant influence over stockholder voting matters and our office leases that may be exercised by our founder and Chief Executive Officer will limit your ability to influence corporate actions and may require us to find alternative office space to lease or buy in the future. At December 31, 2010, Greg Gianforte, our founder and Chief Executive Officer, and his spouse, Susan Gianforte, have voting power over approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock and, together with other officers, directors and other members of senior management, have voting power over approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, none of the shares of common stock over which Mr. Gianforte and Mrs. Gianforte have voting power are subject to vesting restrictions. As a result, Mr. Gianforte and Mrs. Gianforte, acting together with some of our other officers, directors and other members of senior management, may be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, management changes and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of voting power may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of RightNow, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of RightNow and might reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, Mr. Gianforte beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, a 50% membership interest in Genesis Partners, LLC, our landlord from whom we lease our principal offices in Bozeman, Montana. Consequently, Mr. Gianforte has significant influence over any decisions by Genesis Partners regarding renewal, modification or termination of our Bozeman, Montana leases. In the event that our current leases with Genesis Partners were terminated or otherwise could not be renewed, or came up for renewal on commercially unreasonable terms, we would be required to find alternative office space to lease or buy. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable and may limit the market price of our common stock. These provisions include the following: • establishing a classified board in which only a portion of the total board members will be elected at each annual meeting; • authorizing the board to issue preferred stock; • providing the board with sole authority to set the number of authorized directors and to fill vacancies on the board; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting certain transactions under certain circumstances with interested stockholders; • requiring supermajority approval to amend certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation; and • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent. It is possible that the provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the voting rights held by insiders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder action may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company without further action by the stockholders, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the market price of 27 Table of Contents our common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 