Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization The covenants in our Credit Agreement restrict our financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. Our Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict, among other things, the amount of our capital expenditures, our ability to borrow money, grant additional liens on our assets, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets or merge or consolidate. A company controlled by Mr. Icahn holds more than 90% of the principal amount of the loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Because amendments to or waivers of covenants under the Credit Agreement generally require the approval or consent of holders of only a majority of the outstanding principal amount under the Credit Agreement, decisions whether to amend or waive compliance with such covenants by the holders of loans under the Credit Agreement can be made by Mr. Icahn, whether or not the other holders agree. Our Credit Facility includes a financial covenant requiring us to maintain minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or EBITDA, for the twelve-month period ending each fiscal quarter. We did not meet this covenant in 2005 and based on current financial results and our current business plan, we do not expect to comply with this covenant in 2006. We have obtained a waiver through December 31, 2006, but we can not be certain that we will be able to obtain any further waivers of this, or any other, covenant in our Credit Agreement. We completed a prepayment of the outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement of $100 million during the fourth quarter of 2005. As part of the Wireline Sale, we have agreed to prepay all but $75 million of the outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Agreement, and Elk Associates LLC has agreed to assume that indebtedness as of the closing of the Wireline Sale. The lenders of the Credit Agreement have agreed to release us from any further obligations under the Credit Agreement upon our making such prepayment. If we are not able to (i) amend the Credit Agreement covenant to remove the minimum EBITDA requirements or decrease the requirement to a level we believe we can achieve, (ii) obtain an extension on the waiver to at least March 31, 2007, (iii) repay the Credit Facility with a new debt or equity offering so that we are in compliance, or (iv) complete the Wireline Sale and obtain a release from the lenders from all Credit Agreement obligations, under the current accounting guidelines we will be required to reclassify the $301.1 million of our outstanding long term debt to short term debt as of March 31, 2006. While the existing waivers prevent the lenders under the Credit Facility from accelerating repayment of the outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Facility until March 31, 2007, this reclassification would cause a significant deterioration to our disclosed working capital and financial position. The security for the Credit Agreement consists of substantially all of our wireline and wireless assets. A default under the Credit Agreement could adversely affect our rights under other commercial agreements. The Credit Agreement and the existence of the loans under the Credit Agreement also could affect our financial and operational flexibility, as follows: • they may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • they may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in market conditions; and • they may cause us to be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. 29 Table of Contents We may not prevail in our $50 million claim against the Allegiance Telecom Liquidating Trust, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves from the Allegiance Telecom Liquidating Trust’s counterclaim against us. In August 2004, we filed an administrative claim against the Allegiance Telecom Liquidating Trust, or ATLT, the successor to the assets and liabilities of Allegiance Telecom, Inc. that we did not acquire. We have claimed that we are entitled to approximately $50 million in damages related to a variety of actions taken by Allegiance and the ATLT. The ATLT filed a counterclaim against us in November 2004 seeking damages of approximately $100 million. The case went to trial on May 2, 2005 and has not yet been decided. After the trial, the ATLT reduced its counterclaim to approximately $27.8 million. We have pursued our claims against the ATLT, and we have disputed the ATLT counterclaim as being frivolous and without merit. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in recovering the damages to which we believe we are entitled, or that we will successfully defend ourselves against the ATLT counterclaim, in which case our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Wireline Sale may not close, which would require us to reevaluate our strategic alternatives. The Wireline Sale may not be completed for a variety of reasons, including an unfavorable judgment in the pending shareholder litigation in connection with the Wireline Sale. If we are not able to close the Wireline Sale, we will be required to reevaluate our strategic direction, including exploring options to refinance our senior secured debt. The evaluation of strategic alternatives requires significant management attention and causes uncertainty among our customers, vendors, and employees. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify an alternative strategy to the Wireline Sale, the timeframe in which we would identify that strategy, and whether we would successfully execute upon that strategy. Consequently, the failure of the Wireline Sale to be consummated could have material adverse consequences on our financial position and results of operations. We incurred a net loss in the past and, in the near term, may not generate funds from operations sufficient to meet all of our cash requirements. For each period since inception, we have incurred net losses. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we posted a net loss attributable to common stockholders of approximately $159.2 million. In the near term, we expect to use cash to fund our ongoing capital expenditure requirements. Risks Related to Our Wireline Operations In the event of a substantial failure of our operations support systems, including the systems for sales tracking, order entry and provisioning, and billing, our Disaster Recovery System may not permit us to recover our systems operations and perform critical aspects of our services for an extended period, which would adversely affect our revenues or capital resources. Our Disaster Recovery framework to control and address systems risks is not fully redundant, and we may incur the costs, delays and customer complaints associated with system failures. In addition, our ability to efficiently and accurately provision new orders for services on a timely basis is necessary for us to begin to generate revenue related to those services. Our rights to the use of the unlit capacity that make up our network may be affected by the financial health of our fiber providers. We possess the right to use the unlit capacity that is included in our network, particularly in our intercity network, through long-term leases or indefeasible right of use agreements. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of our network, our ability to expand the capacity of our network as our business grows, and ultimately on our results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue to connect our network to the ILEC’s network or maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. We are required to be a party to interconnection agreements with the ILECs in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets. Peering agreements with ISPs allow us to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. Depending on the relative size of the providers involved, these exchanges may be made without settlement charge. Recently, many ISPs that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these ISPs are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange transit could have an adverse effect on our margins for our services that require Internet access. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair our growth and performance. We depend on a limited number of third party service providers for the performance of several our business operations, including payroll and billing services. If any of these third party providers were to experience significant interruptions in their business operations, terminate their agreements with us, or fail to perform the services required under the terms of our contracts with them, our own processing could be materially and adversely affected for a period of time that we can not predict. There can be no assurance that we would be able to locate alternative providers of such services, or that we could do so at economical rates. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or rights to licenses for use of third-party intellectual property, and may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property of others, which could substantially harm our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and other proprietary technology that we license from third parties. We have been issued several United States and foreign trademarks and may consider filing for additional trademarks in the future. We have also been issued one United States patent and may consider filing for additional patents in the future. However, we cannot assure you that any additional patents or trademarks will be issued or that our issued patent or trademarks will be upheld in all cases. We cannot guarantee that these and other intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our trademark or technology or that our competitors or licensors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to ours. In addition, the legal systems in many other countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary interests and business information or our present license arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, the dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. In the future, we may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation also may be necessary to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and cause diversion of our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We could also be subject to court orders preventing us from providing certain services in connection with the delivery of services to our customers. 31 Table of Contents We experience turnover among our experienced and trained employee base, which could result in our inability to continue performing certain functions and completing certain initiatives in accordance with our existing budgets and operating plans. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key sales, engineering, and operations personnel, many of whom have significant experience in the telecommunications industry and substantial tenures with either our company or that of one of the companies that we have acquired. We experience turnover among our employees as a whole, and if we are not able to retain our executive officers or other key employees, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in spite of the recent downturn in the U.S. economy, recruitment and retention of qualified employees remain highly competitive, and there can be no assurance that, if we lose one or more of our senior executives or key employees, we will be able to replace those persons, or, if we are able to replace such persons, that we will be able to do so without incurring significant additional labor costs or disruptions in our operations. Several customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and some of our customer agreements may not continue due to bankruptcies, acquisitions, nonrenewal, or other factors. We have substantial business relationships with large telecommunications carriers for whom we provide long distance and local transport services. The highly competitive environment and the industry consolidation in the long distance and wireless markets has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers, and has caused such carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity that they utilize among competing telecommunications services providers’ networks, including ours. Replacing this revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and SMB customers tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on products that we sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Wireless Operations Our Wireless Business is in the early stages of development and we may not be able to implement its business strategy or obtain new customers. Our fixed wireless business provides services in an emerging market and is subject to the inherent risks of early stage enterprises. The Wireline Sale will result in the transfer of virtually all of our historic assets (other than cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and fixed wireless licenses), liabilities and operations. We anticipate making significant capital expenditures to purchase equipment, acquire service and hub locations, further develop our information technology systems, and otherwise continue the growth and development of our fixed wireless business. There can be no assurance that we will successfully execute on our business plan even if such capital expenditures are made. There can also be no assurance that the market will accept our wireless services, or that developments in the communications market that we believe could contribute to the growth of our wireless business will be sustained. One customer accounts for nearly all of our wireless services revenue. We have a business relationship with a large, mobile wireless telecommunications carrier for whom we provide cellular backhaul services. As a result, if our relationship with that carrier customer were to deteriorate, or if that carrier customer were to experience significant adverse business developments, our wireless revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our licenses may not be renewed upon expiration. Our spectrum licenses in the LMDS and 39 GHz bands are granted for ten (10) year terms. The renewal dates for our LMDS licenses are generally in 2008. The renewal dates for our 39 GHz licenses are in 2010. To qualify for renewal of a license, we must demonstrate that we have provided “substantial service” by the end 32 Table of Contents of the license term. The FCC’s “substantial service” renewal standard for both LMDS and 39 GHz licensees is intended to provide licensees with flexibility in renewing their licenses. The FCC’s “safe harbor” guidelines provide licensees with a degree of certainty as to how to comply with the requirement, but they are not the only way to demonstrate substantial service. The FCC has provided “safe harbor” examples of what would constitute substantial service for a LMDS and 39 GHz licensee. For an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer point-to-multipoint services, a demonstration of coverage to twenty percent (20%) of the population of its licensed area at the ten (10) year mark would constitute substantial service. In the alternative, for an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer fixed, point-to-point services, the construction of four (4) permanent links per one million people in its licensed area would constitute substantial service. For a 39 GHz licensee, the FCC adopted the safe harbor of four (4) links per million population within a service area for a traditional point-to-point service. The FCC has taken a flexible approach to assessing whether LMDS and 39 GHz licensees are providing substantial services, including, for example, determining that a licensee is providing niche, specialized or technologically sophisticated services. While we expect that we will be able to demonstrate that we are providing substantial service for each of our licenses, the FCC may modify its definition of substantial service and, in the future, we may offer services for which the FCC establishes more stringent substantial service requirements. Finally, we expect our FCC licenses will not be reviewed for substantial service on a company-wide basis but rather on a license-by-license basis. Therefore, it is possible that, if our networks are not built-out in a particular licensed region, the license for that region may be subject to non-renewal, even if we have offered “substantial service” in adjoining areas, or on some, but not all, licenses in that market. If we do not secure a waiver of the substantial performance obligations for our A3 Block in New York, we may lose that LMDS license. The only exception to our 2008 deadlines for demonstrating that we are providing substantial service through our LMDS licenses relates to our A3 Block of LMDS spectrum in eight (8) core counties in the New York market. While that license was renewed by the FCC through 2016, we must nonetheless demonstrate that we are providing substantial service using this license by March 2007. We submitted a request to the FCC on January 12, 2005 to extend the deadline for construction of the facilities authorized by the A3 Block license in New York until October 2008 to conform with the construction deadline of the Company’s other LMDS licenses. This request remains pending with the FCC. If we do not secure a grant of this construction extension request, and waiver of the substantial performance obligation, there is a risk that we may lose that particular LMDS license. A key aspect of our business strategy is to provide backhaul services for providers of cellular wireless mobile telecommunications, and our business will depend to a substantial degree on the widespread adoption of bandwidth-intensive applications, such as 3G applications. One of our primary business strategies is to provide cellular wireless mobile telecommunications companies with backhaul services (e.g., the movement of telecommunications traffic between cell sites and points of connection to wired networks). Demand for backhaul services will depend, to a large extent, on the widespread acceptance and use of so-called third generation, or “3G” mobile wireless technologies, such as high speed data service, video phone capability, telephone photography, streaming video, downloadable music, and video games. The implementation of 3G technologies may require cellular companies to upgrade equipment and make significant capital expenditures, which may be delayed by a number of factors outside of our control. Any delay in implementation could result in reduced demand for backhaul services, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and expand our business. We may not be able to successfully execute the necessary real estate transactions, or to negotiate acceptable rates in those agreements for placing antennas and having access to necessary equipment. The provision of our services may require that we enter into arrangements with certain property owners in order to attach our equipment inside or on the rooftops of buildings where our customers are located. We may require similar agreements in order to access transmission towers or buildings that we plan to use as hubs 33 Table of Contents or repeaters for our networks. However, we may be unable to enter into access arrangements on favorable terms or at all, and therefore may be unable to service certain prospective customers. In addition, the general unavailability of transmission towers may hinder the expansion of our networks. Additional spectrum may become available from the FCC, increasing the number of and/or viability of our competitors or even allowing our customers or potential customers to obtain their own spectrum outright, reducing their need to obtain spectrum or services from us. Other entities may obtain FCC licenses to operate spectrum in the same markets as us, thereby offering similar throughput capacities with comparable transmission reliability. These entities may decide to enter our business and offer services to telecommunications companies and our other targeted customers. They may be able to offer lower prices than us or may have more spectrum available to use in a given market than us. Alternatively, potential customers may decide to obtain equipment that operates on certain bands of frequencies that the FCC has designated, or may in the future designate, for use without individual FCC licensing. For example, the FCC still holds limited amounts of 39 GHz spectrum left over from the initial 39 GHz auction and also is considering a notice of proposed rulemaking relating to the possible auction of the 37 GHz band spectrum, which shares many physical similarities with our spectrum. Successful auctions in the 37 GHz or 39 GHz or other high frequency bands could increase the number of entities that hold the spectrum, and its general availability and could have a material adverse effect on the value of our spectrum. Potential customers that would otherwise use our services could instead decide to acquire spectrum rights in these auctions or obtain services from the winners of those auctions. Unsuccessful auctions of the spectrum may generate low winning bids and could therefore reduce the values of spectrum in neighboring bands, including the value of our spectrum licenses. Alternatively, the FCC may decide to allocate additional spectrum for licensing without auctions to certain classes of users, such as state and local government agencies, that otherwise might be potential customers of our services. We are dependent on key personnel and our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of one or more key officers, or our failure to successfully recruit key officers, could impair our ability to successfully build out and operate our services and network. We believe that our future success will also depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. We believe that there is and will continue to be intense competition for qualified personnel in the wireless communications industry. We may not be successful in retaining our key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified technical and management personnel. FCC Regulation of RF emissions and RF environments may increase our costs and/or limit our operations. The FCC regulates the health and safety effects of radio frequency emissions for us and other wireless communications providers. Any FCC licensee whose emissions in an area exceed five percent (5%) of the total permissible emissions limit is responsible for ensuring that the site meets applicable health and safety requirements. The fixed wireless equipment we use is designed to operate at RF emission levels well below the FCC’s standard. However, if we operates in an area where other higher RF emitters are operating, we could nonetheless be required to cooperate with, and contribute financially to, efforts intended to bring the site within applicable health and safety limits. Risks Related to Competition and Our Industry Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices, which could impair our results. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes — particularly those permitting ILECs to provide long distance services — are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging 34 Table of Contents telecommunications markets. In addition, the increasing importance of data services has focused the attention of most telecommunications companies on this growing sector. As a result, a competitor in any of our business areas is potentially a competitor in our other business areas, which could impair our prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect our operating results. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, and has experienced the consolidation of many existing competitors and the introduction of significant new competitors. The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors generate significantly greater revenue, and possess significantly greater assets and financial resources than we do. This competition places downward pressure on prices for local and long distance telephone service and data services, which can adversely affect our operating results. Also, as the technology to deliver VoIP services is improved, more companies will be able to compete with us in our metro markets without constructing or acquiring PSTN assets in those markets. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users. We are much smaller in size and resources than many of our competitors. If we are not able to successfully compete against our larger competitors and the new entrants into the telecommunications market, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to comprehensive and continually evolving regulation. We and some of our services and facilities are regulated by the FCC, states, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities. These regulators routinely conduct rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. These regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on us, give rights to competitors, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. Attempts to limit the basic competitive framework of the Telecom Act could interfere with the successful implementation of our business plan. Risks Related to Our Common Stock An entity owned and controlled by Mr. Icahn is our majority stockholder. An entity owned and controlled by Mr. Icahn, Chairman of our board of directors, filed a Form 13D with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2006 disclosing that his beneficial ownership, as defined therein, was 62% of XO Holdings. As a result, Mr. Icahn has the power to elect all of our directors. Under applicable law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, certain actions cannot be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock including, without limitation, mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws. Future sales or issuances of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price and/or our ability to raise capital. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. In particular, we anticipate that the ATLT, holder of approximately 45,380,000 shares of our common stock, upon effectiveness of the registration statement filed by us on the ATLT’s behalf, may exercise its rights under an existing Registration Rights Agreement to publicly resell some or all of those shares. As of March 14, 2006, there were 181,933,035 shares of our common stock outstanding. The shares of our common stock owned by an entity owned and controlled by Mr. Icahn are restricted shares that may be sold only under a registration statement or an exemption from federal securities registration requirements. Mr. Icahn, through various entities that he owns or controls, has the right to require XO to register, under the Securities Act of 1933, shares of common stock held by such entities and to include shares of our common stock held by them in certain registration statements filed by XO Holdings. 35 Table of Contents We have issued and there remain outstanding three series of warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of approximately 9.5 million, 7.1 million and 7.1 million additional shares of our common stock, at exercise prices of $6.25, $7.50 and $10.00 per share, respectively. The warrants will expire on January 16, 2010. We have options outstanding to purchase approximately 11.3 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our 2002 Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2005. Unless surrendered or cancelled earlier under the terms of the stock incentive plan, those options will expire beginning in 2013. In addition, our 2002 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes future grants of options to purchase common stock, or awards of restricted common stock, with respect to an additional 6.3 million shares of common stock in the aggregate. 