D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our services, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. 5 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition and Business Our operating results fluctuate significantly, which may affect the value of your investments Our historical net operating revenues and results of operations have varied, at times significantly, from quarter to quarter. Our future net operating revenues, gross profit and operating income may vary significantly due to a combination of factors. These factors include: • our ability to develop and implement new technologies. If we are unable to successfully implement new technologies in a timely manner, our operating results could suffer because we would allow our competitors to seize the opportunities in developing new markets. • changes in our mix of manufacturing services or our customers’ preferences. When we discontinue or add manufacturing service or when our customers’ demand change, our operating results usually fluctuate. • changes in capacity utilization. When capacity utilization is low, such as in times of market downturns, we may need to adjust our mix of manufacturing services to respond to changes in demand and to adjust our prices sufficiently enough to maintain the level of our capacity utilization. Moreover, the growing demand for substrate packaging which uses higher-cost raw materials has caused the costs of production for semiconductor packaging to rise significantly. If our revenues do not grow and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our profitability will suffer. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry makes us particularly vulnerable to economic downturns and changes in the semiconductor industry Because our manufacturing services are, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for independent testing and assembly services, any downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry may reduce demand for our manufacturing services and adversely affect our results of operations. Variations in order levels from our customers and in service fee rates may result in volatility in our net operating revenues and earnings. The markets for semiconductors are also characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and periods of heightened competition. If demand for semiconductor capacity does not keep pace with the growth of supply, or further declines, our manufacturing services would be subject to more intense competition and our results of operations may suffer because of the resulting downward pricing pressure and capacity underutilization. Any increased competition may cause average selling prices of many of our semiconductor packages and testing services to decrease significantly, which may lead to pressure on our gross margins and negatively affect our operating results. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe. In the event of any future downturn, our average selling prices may decline without a corresponding decrease in our high fixed costs. This could lead to a decline in our gross margin, which would seriously harm our manufacturing services. The recovery in the semiconductor industry since 2003 could be adversely affected by general economic uncertainties created by the possibility of future terrorist attacks, retaliatory actions, hostilities and outbreaks of contagious diseases. Since we cannot predict results for 2007 and subsequent periods with confidence at this time, we cannot assure you that our results would continue to improve; any unfavorable factors such as those described above could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are dependent on the personal computer industry and any downturn in the personal computer industry would harm our operating results A significant percentage of our net operating revenues is derived from customers who use our manufacturing services to make semiconductors for personal computers. While our net operating revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004 and in 2006 compared to 2005 due in part to general improvement in the personal computer industry, any future decrease in the demand for personal computers may decrease the demand for our manufacturing services and would likely to seriously harm our operating results. In addition, the declining average selling price of personal 6 Table of Contents computers has placed significant pressure on the price of the components that are used in these personal computers. We believe the average selling price of personal computers will continue to decrease, and the resulting pricing pressure on the semiconductor components we package and test may reduce our net operating revenues and reduce our gross profit margin significantly. We do not have any significant backlog because our customers do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes us vulnerable to sudden changes in customer demand Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, and our contracts with major domestic customers do not generally require minimum purchase of our manufacturing services. In addition, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period because demand for their products is often volatile. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our net operating revenues in future periods and causes our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our net operating revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. We also cannot assure you that our customers’ orders will be consistent with our expectations when we made or will make the necessary investments in raw materials, labor and equipment. Potential conflicts of interest with ChipMOS Bermuda may cause us to lose opportunities to expand and improve our operations As of April 30, 2007, we owned 14.7% equity interest in ChipMOS Bermuda. Since ChipMOS Bermuda is a provider of semiconductor packaging and testing services, our substantial interest in ChipMOS Bermuda may lead to potential conflicts of interest in the expansion and development of the semiconductor packaging and testing markets. These conflicts may result in lost corporate opportunities or actions that may prevent us from taking advantage of opportunities to expand and improve our operations. If we are unable to maintain a steady return to our former capacity utilization rates, our profitability would be adversely affected From 2003 to 2006, our capacity utilization rates increased significantly due to improved demand for our mnufacturing services as market conditions from 2003 to 2006 have generally improved. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain a high utilization rate in the future. Nor can we assure you that declines in the semiconductor industry or other factors will not harm our capacity utilization or our profitability in the future. Given the high fixed costs of our services, high capacity utilization allows us to maintain higher gross margins because it allows us to allocate fixed costs over a greater number of units we package and test. Increases or decreases in capacity utilization rates can have a significant effect on our manufacturing services. Accordingly, our ability to enhance our gross margins will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to increase our capacity utilization rates. In addition, in order to continue to increase or sustain our capacity utilization we must: • ensure that our packaging and testing technologies meet our customers’ needs; • install advanced equipment in anticipation of new business; and • prevent disruption of operations due to fire, accidents, mechanical and technical failures, expansion, introduction of new packages or relocation of equipment. If demand for our manufacturing services does not meet our expectations, our capacity utilization would decrease and our gross margins would suffer. 7 Table of Contents We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues and a loss of any one of these customers would result in the loss of a significant portion of our revenues We are dependent on a small group of customers for a substantial portion of our manufacturing services. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, 64.8%, 62.6% and 62.8% of our net operating revenues, respectively, were derived from sales to our top ten customers. In 2006, our largest and second largest customers accounted for 10.0% and 8.6%, respectively, of our net operating revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues because of the concentration of demand in the semiconductor industry for our manufacturing services. Our ability to maintain close and satisfactory relationships with our customers is important to the ongoing success and profitability of our manufacturing services. Few of our customers are presently obligated to purchase packaging or testing services or to provide us with binding forecasts of product purchases for any period. If any of our significant customers reduces, delays or cancels its orders to a significant degree, our manufacturing services would be seriously harmed because each of these customers accounts for a significant portion of our net operating revenues. If capital resources required for our future expansion plans are not available, we may be unable to successfully implement our services strategy We have engaged in equipment and facilities expansion in recent years to upgrade our technology and equipment. Our business growth in the future will continue to require substantial capital expenditures to fund such equipment and facilities expansions. The growing demand for our manufacturing services has and will continue to require significant capital expenditures on substrate packaging technology and equipment. In making these planned capital expenditures, we may need to obtain additional capital. In addition, we may be unable to accurately estimate the timing and amount of our capital requirements, which depend on a number of factors including demand for our manufacturing services and availability of equipment and whether or when the market will recover. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms to us, or at all, when we require additional financing. If we are unable to obtain the necessary capital resources or financing, we will not be able to achieve our future business growth. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our current and potential customers would likely decide not to use our manufacturing services, which would seriously harm our business The independent semiconductor packaging and testing industry is very competitive. We face substantial competition from established packaging and testing companies, including Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. (Taiwan), ASE Test Limited (Taiwan and Malaysia), Amkor Technology Inc. (USA), ASAT, Ltd. (Hong Kong), STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (Singapore), Hana Microelectronics Public Co. Ltd. (Thailand), Astra International (Indonesia), Carsem Bhd. (Malaysia) and Shinko Electric Industries Co., Ltd. (Japan). We may face additional competition from new competitors in our industry in emerging countries, such as the People’s Republic of China, or the PRC, where demand is expected to grow for our manufacturing services. To a lesser extent, we also compete with the internal packaging and testing capabilities of our customers who have in-house packaging and testing capabilities. Some of our competitors have greater technology resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, including established relationships with many large semiconductor companies which are our current or potential customers. These relationships and lengthy qualification periods required by most of our potential customers may prevent us from securing new customers. If the outsourcing trend for packaging and testing services does not continue, we could lose a significant number of our current customers and we may be unable to implement our manufacturing services strategy plan in the future We depend on outsourcing of packaging and testing services by fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers. In recent years, semiconductor companies have increasingly subcontracted parts of the semiconductor production process, including packaging and testing, to independent companies to reduce costs and shorten production cycles. However, we cannot assure you that the outsourcing trend will continue. If integrated device manufacturers become dissatisfied with the services of independent semiconductor packaging and testing companies, they may return to utilizing in-house packaging and testing capabilities. A reversal of, or slowdown in, the outsourcing trend would seriously harm our business and make it difficult for us to implement our growth plan in the future. 8 Table of Contents If demand for the services of Taiwan’s wafer foundries decreases, a significant source of our sales would decrease, which would seriously harm our business We depend on Taiwan’s independent wafer foundries to source our sales orders. In recent years, more than one half of our net operating revenues were derived from packaging and testing semiconductor wafers manufactured at Taiwan’s wafer foundries. If the demand for foundry services offered by Taiwan’s wafer foundries decreases for any reason, including shifts in demand for these services to wafer foundries in other countries, an important source of our sales would be lost and our profitability would suffer. If we are unable to obtain raw materials from our suppliers, our production schedules would be delayed and we may lose customers We must obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices in a timely manner. We source most of our raw materials, including critical materials like lead-frames and substrates, from a limited group of suppliers. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis and have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times or limited the supply of required materials to us because of supply capacity constraints during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. Consequently, we have experienced from time to time difficulty in obtaining acceptable quantities of raw materials on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time, we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or yield. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality. Our inability to obtain raw materials in a timely and cost effective manner would cause us to delay our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of our customers and revenues. If we are unable to obtain equipment from our suppliers, we may be forced to delay any future expansion plans We need to purchase new packaging and testing equipment if we decide to expand our operations. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by equipment vendors. For example, in the past, increased demand for equipment caused some equipment suppliers to only partially satisfy our equipment orders in the normal lead time frame during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. The unavailability of equipment or failures to deliver equipment could delay implementation of our future expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. If we are unable to implement our future expansion plans or meet customer orders, we could lose potential and existing customers. Generally, we do not enter into binding equipment purchase agreements and we acquire our equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to substantial risks. For example, sudden changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the US dollar and Japanese yen, could result in increased prices for equipment purchased by us, which could seriously harm our results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our expansion plans could be jeopardized We have in the past and again recently experienced growth in the scope and complexity of our operations and in the number of our employees. This growth has strained our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. In order to manage our future growth, we must continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future, and our failure to do so could jeopardize our future expansion plans. We are exploring the possibility of expanding our operations or making additional investments in the PRC, which may expose us to additional political, regulatory, economic and foreign investment risks Some of our customers and foreign competitors have expanded their operations to the PRC. In order to remain competitive and to position ourselves to gain market share, we are exploring potential opportunities for expansion to or investments in the PRC. We established a subsidiary named Siliconware Technology (Suzhou) Limited in 2002, and, as of March 31, 2007, we had invested a total of US$50.0 million in this subsidiary. In April 2006, the Investment Commission of the ROC Ministry of Economic Affairs, or the ROC Investment Commission, announced that companies in the ROC engaging in assembling and testing of semiconductors of wire bonding based types are permitted to file applications for investment in the PRC. Further, in December 2006, the ROC Investment 9 Table of Contents Commission published the Principles Governing the Review of Investment or Technical Cooperation in Mainland China and the Directions Governing the Review and Coordination in Policies of Material Investment in Mainland China, or, collectively, the PRC Investment Rules, with regard to the reviewing process of material investment applications, such as those related to assembling and testing of semiconductors, in the PRC. In August 2006, our board of directors resolved to make an additional US$30.0 million investment in assembling and testing of semiconductors of wire bonding based types in the PRC. In December 2006, we filed an application with the ROC government for such increased investment, but no approval had been granted by the ROC government as of the date of this annual report. We did not make any public announcement regarding our board’s decision until April 2007 when the Taiwan Stock Exchange required us to make such announcement because, based on our interpretation of the relevant regulations in the ROC, we believed that no such announcement was required until our investment plan had been approved by the government. As a result of our failure to make an announcement immediately after our board meeting, our chairman as the legal representative of our company was fined for NT$240,000 (approximately US$7,360) by the ROC government. With such investment and proposed investment in the PRC, our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects are subject, to a significant degree, to the political and economic situation, regulatory control and general legal developments in the PRC and other foreign investment risks. In addition, these expansions or investments could be adversely affected if relations between the PRC and the ROC deteriorate. We depend on key management and the loss of any key management personnel may disrupt our manufacturing services Our success depends upon the continued service of key senior management. Members of our senior management have served us for an average of over 10 years and have made substantial contributions to our growth. We do not have employment contracts with many of our senior management and none of our senior management is bound by any non-competition agreement. If we lose the services of key senior management we would be unable to find and integrate replacement personnel, which could adversely affect our services expansion. We depend on our technical personnel and the inability to attract and retain them would jeopardize our operations and future expansion plans Our business depends on technology and, accordingly, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly engineering and technical personnel. Without sufficient numbers of skilled employees, our operations would suffer, resulting in deteriorating ability to solve operating and other issues in a timely and effective manner. Competition for qualified engineering and technical employees in Taiwan is intense and replacement of qualified employees is difficult. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our technical personnel, our operations would be jeopardized and our operating efficiency would deteriorate. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations or to defend against environmental claims could expose us to serious liabilities The semiconductor packaging and testing processes require the use of chemicals and gases which are regulated by the government. For example, liquid waste is produced when silicon wafers are diced into chips using diamond saws and cooled with running water. Liquid waste is also produced when lead-frames are plated onto wafer chips and cleansed with water. Moreover, excess material on leads and moldings are removed from packaged semiconductors in the trim and form process. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with any environmental regulations could result in damages or fines against us or suspension of production. We may be required by new regulations to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. If we fail to control the use of hazardous substances, we could incur future liabilities, including clean up costs. We and many Taiwan customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events outside our control, the occurrence of which may seriously harm our manufacturing services Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers are particularly vulnerable to fires, earthquakes, typhoons, droughts, floods, power losses, and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events could interrupt 10 Table of Contents services. In November 2004, Taiwan experienced significant earthquakes registering up to 6.7 on the Richter scale. We did not experience any significant damage as a result of these earthquakes. However, we cannot guarantee that future earthquakes will not cause material damage to our facilities or property, including work in progress, or cause significant business interruptions. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business loss from earthquakes will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, the production facilities of many of our suppliers and customers providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, including foundries, are located in Taiwan. If our customers are affected, it could result in a decline in the demand for our testing and assembly services. If our suppliers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services are affected, our production schedule could be interrupted or delayed. As a result, a major earthquake, natural disaster or other disruptive event in Taiwan could severely disrupt the normal operation of business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in the international trading environment may seriously decrease our international sales A substantial portion of our net operating revenues is derived from sales to customers located outside of Taiwan. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, sales to our overseas customers accounted for 59.9%, 62.0% and 64.1%, respectively, of our net operating revenues. We expect sales to customers outside of Taiwan to continue to represent a significant portion of our net operating revenues. As a result, our manufacturing services will continue to be vulnerable to disruptions in the international trading environment, including adverse changes in foreign government regulations, political unrest and international economic downturns. These disruptions in the international trading environment affect the demand for our manufacturing services and change the terms upon which we provide our manufacturing services overseas, which could seriously decrease our international sales. The differences between Taiwan and U.S. accounting standards resulted in different amounts of our net income under those standards, which makes evaluating our financial performance difficult Our financial statements are prepared under ROC GAAP, which differ in many respects from US GAAP. Year-to-year comparison of our financial results under ROC GAAP may significantly differ from year-to-year comparison under US GAAP. For example, ROC GAAP does not require the recognition of the fair market value of shares distributed as bonuses to employees when calculating net income. Largely as a result of the differences in accounting for employee bonuses, equity investments and overseas convertible bonds, our net income in 2004, 2005 and 2006 under US GAAP was NT$3,671 million, NT$3,971 million and NT$8,413 million (US$258.1 million), respectively, as compared to net income under ROC GAAP of NT$4,282 million, NT$8,244 million and NT$13,329 million (US$409.0 million), respectively. In addition, prior to January 1, 2005, the ROC Securities and Futures Bureau, or the ROC SFB, allowed us to delay recognition of investment income (loss) from certain of our investee companies in our financial results under the ROC GAAP until June 30 of the following year. Therefore, our financial results in 2004 may not contain investment income (loss) of certain investee companies in such year. After the adoption of amended ROC Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 5, “Accounting for Long-term Equity Investment” which became effective on January 1, 2005, we cease to delay recognizing investment income (loss) from certain investee companies accounted for under the equity method. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results - Delay in Recognition of Investment Income in Certain Investee Companies Accounted for under Equity Method.” Under US GAAP, however, there is no provision that allows us to delay recognition of our investment income from our investee companies. Under ROC GAAP, our overseas convertible bonds are recorded as a liability at an amount equal to the proceeds received. Any discount or premium to the par value of the overseas convertible bonds is amortized in the statement of operations by using the effective interest rate. No bifurcation for embedded derivatives is required for convertible bonds issued before January 1, 2006, on which the ROC SFAS No. 34 took effect. However, under US GAAP, in accordance with SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, our 11 Table of Contents overseas convertible bonds issued in 2002 and 2004, with the feature of the combination of mutually exclusive conversion of the debt to equity or redemption at a multiple of the bonds par value, are required to be accounted for as embedded derivative instruments. The embedded derivatives separated from the book value of bonds are measured at fair value and changes in fair value are recognized as unrealized gain (loss) in the income statement for each accounting period. Risks Relating to Our Technologies If we cannot respond to rapid technology changes in the semiconductor packaging and testing industry, our profitability will suffer The semiconductor packaging and testing industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of semiconductor packaging and testing services. As a result, we expect that we will need to continue to develop and offer more advanced packaging and testing processes in order to respond to our customers’ requirements as industry conditions change. Developing and maintaining advanced packaging and testing processes requires significant research and development and capital expenditures. In addition, advances in technology typically lead to rapid and significant price erosion and decreased margins for older manufacturing services and may cause our current manufacturing services to become less competitive. Our failure to develop or obtain advanced packaging or testing designs will materially and adversely affect our mix of manufacturing services and would seriously harm our profitability. If we are unable to successfully perform manufacturing services within the acceptable range of precision, we will not be able to achieve satisfactory production yields and our results of operations will suffer The semiconductor packaging and testing processes are complex and involve a number of precise steps. Defective packaging and testing can result from a number of factors, including: • the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • incorrect process condition setting; • use of defective raw materials; and • inadequate sample testing. From time to time, we expect to experience lower than anticipated production yields as a result of the above factors, particularly in connection with the expansion of our capacity or change in our processing methods. In addition, our yield providede by new manufacturing services will be lower than average as we develop the necessary expertise and experience to perform those manufacturing services. If we fail to maintain high quality production standards, our reputation may suffer and our customers may cancel their orders or ask for discount. We rely on technology provided by third parties We have licensed from Freescale Semiconductor Inc., or Freescale, formerly part of Motorola, Inc., or Motorola, the technology for ball grid array for which we make royalty payments based on the number of pads or balls used in our packages. We also implement new packages by entering into technology alliances and by licensing package technologies from certain technology companies. 12 Table of Contents In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our royalty expenses were NT$143 million, NT$195 million and NT$277 million (US$8.5 million), respectively, which accounted for 0.4%, 0.4% and 0.5%, respectively, of our net operating revenues. There can be no assurance that third parties will continue to license advanced technologies to us on terms satisfactory or acceptable to us after these licensing agreements expire, or at all. In the event that we are unable to license such advanced technologies from the third parties, we may be required to develop designed around technologies internally. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop such technologies internally. Disputes over intellectual property rights could be costly and could deprive us of technologies to stay competitive We may suffer legal liabilities and damages if we infringe on the proprietary rights of others or incur costs resulting from legal claims and adverse proceedings against us. Despite this, we have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States or elsewhere until they are granted. The semiconductor packaging and testing industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If any third party were to make valid intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using disputed process technologies which would prevent us from offering some of our packaging and testing services; • pay substantial monetary damages; • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We could also be required to expend substantial resources to defend any claim alleging our infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could seriously harm our company. In addition, we have acquired patents and trademarks to protect some of our proprietary technologies and manufacturing services. We cannot assure you, however, that these measures will provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property. For example, our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior manufacturing service technology, or we may not have sufficient financial and legal resources to protect and enforce our rights. On March 1, 2006, we were informed of a civil lawsuit brought by Tessera Inc., or Tessera, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us, our subsidiary, Siliconware USA, Inc., several other subcontractor companies and their subsidiaries. Tessera alleges that we infringed patents owned by Tessera and/or breached technology license agreements between us and Tessera by providing some of our packaging services. All parties in the lawsuit stipulated a stay of this action in its entirety, pending a final determination of investigation by the International Trade Commission with regard to an action that is directed against other parties, including some co-defendants in the litigation in the Northern District of California. Pursuant to the stipulation, the court stayed the litigation on May 24, 2007. Currently, we are unable to assess the potential liabilities arising out of this claim due to the fact that information provided with regard to the infringement scope is insufficient. In February 2007, we filed a request for reexamination with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the PTO, of all patents being asserted by Tessera in the lawsuit. The PTO has granted the reexamination for all patents. Political and Economic Risks We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between the ROC and the PRC Our principal executive offices and substantially all of our assets are located in Taiwan. Accordingly, our services, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in Republic of China governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social 13 Table of Contents instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The PRC claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the ROC and the PRC, relations have often been strained. The PRC government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan and, in March 2005, further passed an Anti-Secession Law that authorizes non-peaceful means and other necessary measures should Taiwan move to gain independence from the PRC. Past developments in relations between the ROC and the PRC have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the ROC. Relations between the Republic of China and the PRC and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. The trading price of our American Depositary Shares may be adversely affected by the general activities of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and U.S. stock exchanges, the trading price of our shares, increases in interest rates and the economic performance of Taiwan markets Our shares are listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The trading price of our ADSs may be affected by the trading price of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is a smaller market and, more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and a number of European countries. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. During 2006, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 7,823.7 on December 29, 2006, and reached a low of 6,257.8 on July 17, 2006. From January 2, 2006 to May 31, 2007, daily closing values of our shares ranged from NT$33.7 per share to NT$71.7 per share. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is particularly volatile during times of political instability including when relations between Taiwan and the PRC are strained. Moreover, the Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced problems including market manipulation, insider trading and settlement defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could decrease the market price and liquidity of our shares and ADSs. The market price of the ADSs may also be affected by general trading activities on the U.S. stock exchanges, which have experienced significant price volatility with respect to shares of technology companies. Increases in interest rates and other general economic conditions may also have an effect on the market price of our ADSs. Daily closing values of our ADSs ranged from US$1.88 to US$10.45 between June 7, 2000, the date our ADSs were listed on NASDAQ, and May 31, 2007. Over the same period, the NASDAQ Composite Index ranged from 1,114.11 to 2,604.52. On May 31, 2007, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index closed at 8,144.95, and the daily closing value of our shares was NT$69 per share. Currency fluctuations could increase our costs relative to our revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. More than half of our net operating revenues are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, primarily US dollars. On the other hand, more than half of our costs of direct labor, raw materials and overhead are incurred in NT dollars. We are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the US dollar, the Japanese Yen, the NT dollar and other currencies. Any significant fluctuation in exchange rates may be harmful to our financial condition. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the NT dollar will affect the US dollar value of the ADSs and the US dollar value of any cash dividends we pay, which could have a corresponding effect on the market price of the ADSs. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our manufacturing services and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome or avian influenza, may disrupt our ability to adequately staff our manufacturing services, and may generally disrupt our operations. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may under certain circumstances be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to 14 Table of Contents temporarily suspend part of or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan, which may also adversely affect our manufacturing services and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our future tax obligations may adversely affect our profitability According to the newly implemented Alternative Minimum Tax, or AMT, Act effective from January 1, 2006, a company is subject to a 10% AMT if its annual income exceeds NT$2 million, and an individual will be subject to a 20% AMT if his/her annual income exceeds NT$6 million. The imposition of the AMT is designed to remedy the current excessive tax incentives for individuals and businesses. For businesses, the incomes which previously enjoyed tax-exemption privileges under relevant tax regulations, such as the Statute for Upgrading Industries will be subject to the new AMT system for the calculation of business taxpayers’ aggregate incomes. The AMT Act also provides that businesses already qualified for five-year tax exemption before December 31, 2005 may continue to enjoy tax incentives and not to be subject to AMT, so long as the construction of their investment projects breaks ground within one year and is completed within three years of the implementation of the AMT Act. We have evaluated our 2006 effective tax rate, which is higher than the AMT and concluded that the imposition of the AMT had no influence on our 2006 tax position. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares or ADSs Restrictions on the ability to deposit shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by ROC law. Under current ROC law, no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit shares into our ADS program without specific approval of the ROC SFB except for the deposit of the shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: • distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our shares; • exercise of the preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the shares evidenced by ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or • if permitted under the deposit agreement and the custody agreement, purchases of our shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary or the surrender of shares under the possession of investors and then delivery of such shares to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (a) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposit only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by ROC SFB, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described in the above two bullet points; and (b) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled. As a result of the limited ability to deposit shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ National Market, or NASDAQ, may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Holders of our ADSs will not have the same proposal or voting rights as the holders of our shares, which may affect the value of your investment Due to the amendment to the ROC Company Act and the amendment made to our articles of incorporation accordingly, except for treasury shares, each common share is generally entitled to one vote and no voting discount 15 Table of Contents will be applied. However, except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. The voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs must be exercised as to all matters brought to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner. Moreover, holders of the ADSs do not have individual rights to propose any matter for shareholders’ votes at our shareholders’ meetings. However, holders of at least 51% of the ADS outstanding at the relevant record date may request the depositary to submit to us one proposal per year for consideration at our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting, provided that such proposal meets certain submission criteria and limitations, including the language and the length of the proposal, the time of submission, the required certification or undertakings, and the attendance at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting. A qualified proposal so submitted by the depositary will still be subject to review by our board of directors and there is no assurance that the proposal will be accepted by our board of directors for inclusion in the agenda of our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting. Furthermore, if we determine, at our discretion, that the proposal submitted by the depositary does not qualify, we have no obligation to notify the depositary or to allow the depositary to modify such proposal. Furthermore, if holders of at least 51% of the ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date instruct the depositary to vote in the same manner regarding a resolution, including election of directors and/or supervisors, the depositary will appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to represent the ADS holders at the shareholders’ meetings and to vote the shares represented by the ADSs outstanding in the manner so instructed. If by the relevant record date the depositary has not received instructions from holders of ADSs holding at least 51% of the ADSs to vote in the same manner for any resolution, then the holders will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to authorize and appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to vote all the shares represented by ADSs at his sole discretion, which may not be in your interest. The rights of holders of our ADSs to participate in our rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to their holdings We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by laws governing ROC corporations. The rights of our shareholders to bring shareholders’ suits against us or our board of directors under ROC law are much more limited than those of the shareholders of U.S. corporations. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Please refer to “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association” included elsewhere in this annual report for a detailed discussion of the rights of our shareholders to bring legal actions against us or our directors under ROC law. Holders of our ADSs will be required to appoint several local agents in Taiwan if they withdraw shares from our ADS program and become our shareholders, which may make ownership burdensome Non-ROC persons wishing to withdraw shares represented by their ADSs from our ADS program and hold our shares represented by those ADSs are required to appoint a local agent or representative with qualifications set forth by the ROC SFB to open a securities trading account with a local brokerage firm, pay ROC taxes, remit funds and exercise shareholders’ rights. In addition, the withdrawing holders are also required to appoint a custodian bank with qualifications set forth by the Ministry of Finance to hold the securities in safekeeping, make confirmations, settle 16 Table of Contents trades and report all relevant information. Without making this appointment and opening of the accounts, the withdrawing holders would not be able to subsequently sell our shares withdrawn from a depositary receipt facility on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Under ROC law and regulations, citizens of the PRC are not permitted to hold our shares or withdraw shares represented by ADSs from our ADS program. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court in the ROC We are a company limited by shares incorporated under the ROC Company Act. Most of our assets and most of our directors, supervisors and executive officers and experts named in the registration statement are located in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained outside Taiwan upon us or such persons in Taiwan. Any judgment obtained against us in any court outside the ROC arising out of or relating to the ADSs will not be enforced by ROC courts if any of the following situations shall apply to such final judgment: • the court rendering the judgment does not have jurisdiction over the subject matter according to ROC law; • the judgment or the court procedures resulting in the judgment is contrary to the public order or good morals of the ROC; • the judgment was rendered by default, except where the summons or order necessary for the commencement of the action was duly served on us within the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment within a reasonable period of time and in accordance with the laws and regulations of such jurisdiction, or with judicial assistance of the ROC; or • judgments of ROC courts are not recognized and enforceable in the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment on a reciprocal basis. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the past and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2006, and do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we were or were to become a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our shares, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2007 or any future taxable year. See “Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Persons — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 