D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our services, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition and Business Any global systemic economic and financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition The systemic economic and financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 that affected global businesses including the banking and financial sectors also had an impact on the semiconductor markets. The turmoil in global markets in 2008 resulted in sharp declines in demand for our semiconductor packaging and testing services from which we generate our revenues. The global economy has been slowly recovering since the end of 2009. However, in light of the recent European debt crisis, the global economy is still uncertain and may continue to deteriorate in the future. There were, and could be in the future, domino effects from such turmoil on our business, including significant decreases in orders from our customers, insolvency of key suppliers resulting in service delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our services, customer insolvencies, weak consumer confidence, diminished consumer and business spending and asset depreciation negatively impacting our operations. Any systemic economic or financial crisis could cause revenues for the semiconductor industry as a whole to decline dramatically and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry makes us particularly vulnerable to economic downturns and changes in the semiconductor industry Because our manufacturing services are, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for independent testing and assembly services, any downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, caused by economic downturns or other reasons, may reduce demand for our manufacturing services and adversely affect our results of operations. Variations in order levels from our customers and in service fee rates may result in volatility in our net operating revenues and earnings. The markets for semiconductors are also characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and periods of heightened competition. If demand for semiconductor capacity does not keep pace with the growth of supply, or further declines, our manufacturing services would be subject to more intense competition and our results of operations may suffer because of the resulting downward pricing pressure and capacity underutilization. Any increased competition may cause average selling prices of many of our semiconductor packages and testing services to decrease significantly, which may lead to pressure on our gross margins and negatively affect our operating results. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe. In the event of any future downturn, our average selling prices may decline without a corresponding decrease in our high fixed costs. This could lead to a decline in our profitability, which would seriously harm our manufacturing services. Our operating results fluctuate significantly, which may affect the value of your investments Our historical net operating revenues and results of operations have varied, at times significantly, from quarter to quarter. Our future net operating revenues, gross profit and operating income may vary significantly due to a combination of factors. These factors include: • our ability to develop and implement new technologies. If we are unable to successfully implement new technologies in a timely manner, our operating results could suffer because we would allow our competitors to seize the opportunities in developing new markets. • changes in our mix of manufacturing services or our customers’ preferences. When we discontinue or add manufacturing service or when our customers’ demand changes, our operating results usually fluctuate. 5 Table of Contents • changes in capacity utilization. When capacity utilization is low, such as in times of market downturns, we may need to adjust our mix of manufacturing services to respond to changes in demand and to adjust our prices sufficiently enough to maintain the level of our capacity utilization. Moreover, the substrate packaging which uses higher-cost raw materials has caused the costs of production for semiconductor packaging to rise significantly. If our revenues do not grow and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our profitability will suffer. We do not have any significant backlog because our customers do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes us vulnerable to sudden changes in customer demand Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, and our contracts with major domestic customers do not generally require minimum purchase of our manufacturing services. In addition, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period because demand for their products is often volatile. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our net operating revenues in future periods and causes our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our net operating revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. We also cannot assure you that our customers’ orders will be consistent with our expectations when we made or will make the necessary investments in raw materials, labor and equipment. If we are unable to maintain a steady return to our former capacity utilization rates, our profitability would be adversely affected Demand in the semiconductor industry has slowed down since the beginning of 2011 as a result of general macroeconomic conditions, such as the European debt crisis, as well as natural disasters, such as the earthquake in Japan in March 2011 and the serious flooding in Thailand from July to November 2011. Such unforeseen and uncontrollable events caused a decrease in our capacity utilization and our profitability, and continuing instability in demand has made it difficult for us to forecast demand and sustain a high utilization rate. Any lingering downturn in the semiconductor industry as a result of such events would harm our capacity utilization, and as a result may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations in the future. See “—We and our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, the occurrence of which may seriously harm our manufacturing services.” Given the high fixed costs of our services, high capacity utilization allows us to maintain higher gross margins because it allows us to allocate fixed costs over a greater number of units we package and test. Increases or decreases in capacity utilization rates will have a significant effect on our manufacturing services. Accordingly, our ability to enhance our gross margins will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to increase our capacity utilization rates. In order to increase or sustain our capacity utilization, we must: • ensure that our packaging and testing technologies meet our customers’ demands; • install advanced equipment in anticipation of new business; and • prevent disruption of operations caused by fire, accidents, mechanical and technical failures, expansion, introduction of new packages or relocation of equipment. If demand for our manufacturing services does not meet our expectations, our capacity utilization would decrease and our profitability would suffer. 6 Table of Contents We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues and a loss of any one of these customers would result in the loss of a significant portion of our revenues We are dependent on a small group of customers for a substantial portion of our manufacturing services. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 60.0%, 56.4% and 57.8% of our net operating revenues, respectively, were derived from sales to our top ten customers. In 2011, our largest customer accounted for over 10% of our net operating revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues because of the concentration of demand in the semiconductor industry for our manufacturing services. Our ability to maintain close and satisfactory relationships with our customers is important to the ongoing success and profitability of our manufacturing services. Few of our customers are presently obligated to purchase packaging or testing services or to provide us with forecasts of product purchases for any period. If any of our significant customers reduces, delays or cancels its orders to a significant degree, our manufacturing services would be harmed because each of these customers accounts for a significant portion of our net operating revenues. If capital resources required for our future expansion plans are not available, we may be unable to successfully implement our services strategy We have engaged in equipment and facilities expansion in recent years to upgrade our technology and equipment. Our business growth in the future will continue to require substantial capital expenditures to fund such equipment and facilities expansions. We periodically review and adjust our capital expenditure plans to address our expectation of demand for our services and prevailing industry trends. The growing demand for our manufacturing services has and will continue to require significant capital expenditures on packaging technology and equipment. In making these planned capital expenditures, we may need to obtain additional capital. In addition, we may be unable to accurately estimate the timing and amount of our capital requirements, which depend on a number of factors, including demand for our manufacturing services and availability of equipment and whether or when the market will recover. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms to us, or at all, when we require additional financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our current and potential customers would likely decide not to use our manufacturing services, which would seriously harm our business The independent semiconductor packaging and testing industry is very competitive. We face substantial competition from established packaging and testing companies, including Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. (Taiwan), Amkor Technology Inc. (USA) and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (Singapore). We may face additional competition from new competitors in our industry in emerging countries, such as the People’s Republic of China, or the P.R.C., where demand is expected to grow for our manufacturing services. To a lesser extent, we also compete with the internal packaging and testing capabilities of our customers who have in-house packaging and testing capabilities. Some of our competitors have greater technology resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, including established relationships with many large semiconductor companies which are our current or potential customers. These relationships and lengthy qualification periods required by most of our potential customers may prevent us from securing new customers. If the outsourcing trend for packaging and testing services does not continue, we could lose a significant number of our current customers and we may be unable to implement our manufacturing services strategy plan in the future We depend on outsourcing of packaging and testing services by fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers. In recent years, semiconductor companies have increasingly subcontracted parts of the semiconductor production process, including packaging and testing, to independent companies to reduce costs and shorten production cycles. However, we cannot assure you that the outsourcing trend will continue. If integrated device manufacturers become dissatisfied with the services of independent semiconductor packaging and testing companies, they may return to utilizing in-house packaging and testing capabilities. A reversal of, or slowdown in, the outsourcing trend would harm our business and make it difficult for us to implement our growth plan in the future. 7 Table of Contents The trend of adopting protectionist measures in certain countries, including the United States, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition Governments in the United States, China, Europe and certain other countries have implemented fiscal and monetary programs to stimulate economic growth as a result of the recent economic downturn, and many of these programs include protectionist measures that encourage the use of domestic products and labor. If the governments in the countries where our customers are located enact protectionist measures that encourage the use of domestic products and labor, demand for our services could be adversely affected. Recent policy developments by the governments in China also suggest an increased unwillingness to allow international companies to invest in or acquire local businesses. Since some of our direct customers and other downstream customers in the supply chain are located in or have operations in the countries where protectionist measures were adopted, such protectionist measures could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our production schedule may be delayed and our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain raw materials from our suppliers at acceptable prices, qualities and quantities We must obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices in a timely manner. We source most of our raw materials, including critical materials, such as gold wire, substrates and lead-frames, from a limited group of suppliers. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis at prevailing market prices and have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers have extended lead times or limited the supply of required materials to us because of supply capacity constraints during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. Consequently, we have experienced from time to time difficulty in obtaining acceptable quantities of raw materials on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time, we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or yield. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality. Our inability to obtain raw materials in a timely and cost effective manner would cause us to delay our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of our customers and revenues. The price of gold wire has been volatile and has fluctuated with the spot price of gold in recent years. In 2011, the spot price of gold fluctuated from a low of approximately US$1,312.2 per ounce to a high of approximately US$1,900.1 per ounce. The increase in the price of gold wire resulted in the decrease in our gross margin in 2011. To the extent we are not able to offset any increases in our raw material costs, our gross margins may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to obtain equipment from our suppliers, we may be forced to delay any future expansion plans We need to purchase new packaging and testing equipment if we decide to expand our operations. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by equipment vendors. For example, in the past, increased demand for equipment caused some equipment suppliers to only partially satisfy our equipment orders in the normal lead time frame during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. The unavailability of equipment or failures to deliver equipment could delay implementation of our future expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. If we are unable to implement our future expansion plans or meet customer orders, we could lose potential and existing customers. Generally, we do not enter into binding equipment purchase agreements and we acquire our equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to substantial risks. For example, sudden changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen, could result in increased prices for equipment purchased by us, which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our expansion plans could be jeopardized We have in the past and again recently experienced growth in the scope and complexity of our operations and in the number of our employees. This growth has strained our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. In order to manage our future growth, we must continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future, and our failure to do so could jeopardize our future expansion plans. 8 Table of Contents We depend on key management and the loss of any key management personnel may disrupt our manufacturing services Our success depends upon the continued service of key senior management. Members of our senior management have served us for an average of over ten years and have made substantial contributions to our growth. We do not have employment contracts with many of our senior management and none of our senior management is bound by any non-competition agreement. If we lose the services of key senior management we would be unable to find and integrate replacement personnel, which could adversely affect our services expansion. We depend on our technical personnel and the inability to attract and retain them would jeopardize our operations and future expansion plans Our business depends on technology and, accordingly, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly engineering and technical personnel. Without sufficient numbers of skilled employees, our operations would suffer, resulting in deteriorating ability to solve operating and other issues in a timely and effective manner. Competition for qualified engineering and technical employees in Taiwan is intense and replacement of qualified employees is difficult. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our technical personnel, our operations would be jeopardized and our operating efficiency would deteriorate. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations or to defend against environmental claims could expose us to serious liabilities The semiconductor packaging and testing processes produce liquid waste and solid waste, which are regulated by the government. For example, liquid waste is produced when silicon wafers are diced into chips using diamond saws and cooled with running water. Liquid waste is also produced when lead-frames are plated with solder and cleansed with water after wafer chips are bonded onto them and capsulated by mold resin. Moreover, excess materials between leads of lead-frames are removed in the trim and form process. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with any environmental regulations could result in damages or fines against us or suspension of production. We may be required by new regulations to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. If we fail to control the use of hazardous substances, we could incur future liabilities, including clean up costs. We and our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, the occurrence of which may seriously harm our manufacturing services Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers are particularly vulnerable to fires, earthquakes, typhoons, droughts, floods, power losses, and similar events. In March 2011, Japan was struck by a 9.0-magnitude earthquake. Although the earthquake together with the resulting tsunami and radiation leak at the Fukushima nuclear power plant have not had an immediate direct impact on our operations, our supply chain was adversely affected as the production facilities of some suppliers to our suppliers are located in Japan. Disruptions or delays in our supply chain may result in shortages of components we utilize which may in turn affect our ability to successfully perform our semiconductor packaging and testing services. Any failure on our part to provide our services to customers may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that future natural disasters will not cause material damage to our facilities or property, including work in progress, or cause significant business interruptions. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business loss from natural disasters will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, the production facilities of many of our suppliers and customers’ providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, including foundries, are located in Taiwan. If our customers are affected, it could result in a decline in the demand for our testing and assembly services. If our suppliers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services are affected, our production schedule could be interrupted or delayed. As a result, a major earthquake, natural disaster or other disruptive event in Taiwan could severely disrupt the normal operation of business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Climate change, other environmental concerns and green initiatives present commercial challenges, economic risks and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the manner in which we conduct our business Increasing climate change and environmental concerns could affect the results of our operations if any of our customers would request us to exceed any standard(s) set for environmentally compliant products and services. If we are unable to offer such products or offer products that are compliant, but are not as reliable due to the lack of reasonably available alternative technologies or materials, we may lose market share to our competitors. Customers may request us to provide information on a particular product’s carbon footprint, which is expressed in terms of the carbon dioxide emission from our manufacture of a product. If we are unable to provide the requested information to customers, or if we provide a higher carbon footprint figure than customers expect, we may also lose market share, which may have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, energy costs in general could increase significantly due to climate change regulations. Therefore, our energy costs may increase significantly if utility or power companies pass on their costs, fully or partially, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and carbon credit trading programs. In addition, more frequent droughts and floods, extreme weather conditions and rising sea levels could occur due to climate change. The impact of such changes could be significant as our facilities are located in Taiwan, which is an island. For example, transportation suspension caused by extreme weather conditions could harm the delivery of our supplies and the distribution of our products. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of disasters or climate change. Disruptions in the international trading environment may seriously decrease our international sales A substantial portion of our net operating revenues is derived from sales to customers located outside of Taiwan. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, sales to our overseas customers accounted for 66.1%, 67.9% and 77.8%, respectively, of our net operating revenues. We expect sales to customers outside of Taiwan to continue to represent a significant portion of our net operating revenues. As a result, our manufacturing services will continue to be vulnerable to disruptions in the international trading environment, including adverse changes in foreign government regulations, political unrest and international economic downturns. These disruptions in the international trading environment affect the demand for our manufacturing services and change the terms upon which we provide our manufacturing services overseas, which could seriously decrease our international sales. The differences between Taiwan and U.S. accounting standards resulted in different amounts of our net income under those standards, which makes evaluating our financial performance difficult Our financial statements are prepared under R.O.C. GAAP, which differ in many respects from U.S. GAAP. Year-to-year comparison of our financial results under R.O.C. GAAP may significantly differ from year-to-year comparison under U.S. GAAP. Largely as a result of the differences in accounting for 10% tax on undistributed earnings as well as compensated absences for 2009, 2010 and 2011, our net incomes in 2009, 2010 and 2011 under U.S. GAAP were NT$8,755 million, NT$5,597 million and NT$4,691 million (US$155.0 million), respectively, as compared to net income under R.O.C. GAAP of NT$8,790 million, NT$5,627 million and NT$4,837 million (US$159.8 million), respectively. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Technologies If we cannot respond to rapid technology changes in the semiconductor packaging and testing industry, our profitability will suffer The semiconductor packaging and testing industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of semiconductor packaging and testing services. As a result, we expect that we will need to continue to develop and offer more advanced packaging and testing processes in order to respond to our customers’ requirements as industry conditions change. Developing and maintaining advanced packaging and testing processes requires significant research and development and capital expenditures. In addition, advances in technology typically lead to rapid and significant price erosion and decreased margins for older manufacturing services and may cause our current manufacturing services to become less competitive. Our failure to develop or obtain advanced packaging and testing technologies will materially and adversely affect our mix of manufacturing services and would harm our profitability. If we are unable to successfully perform manufacturing services within the acceptable range of precision, we will not be able to achieve satisfactory production yields and our results of operations will suffer The semiconductor packaging and testing processes are complex and involve a number of precise steps. Defective packaging and testing can result from a number of factors, including: • the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • incorrect process condition setting; • use of defective raw materials; and • inadequate sample testing. From time to time, we expect to experience lower than anticipated production yields as a result of the above factors, particularly in connection with the expansion of our capacity or change in our processing methods. In addition, our yield provided by new manufacturing services will be lower than average as we develop the necessary expertise and experience to perform those manufacturing services. If we fail to maintain high quality production standards, our reputation may suffer and our customers may cancel their orders or ask for discount. We rely on technology provided by third parties We rely on certain technologies that we have obtained through alliances or licenses. For example, we have licensed from Freescale Semiconductor Inc., or Freescale, formerly part of Motorola, Inc., or Motorola, the technology for ball grid array. We make royalty payments to Freescale and have the license to use this technology until December 2015. We implement new package technologies by entering into technology alliances and by licensing package technologies from certain technology companies. There can be no assurance that third parties will continue to license advanced technologies to us on terms satisfactory or acceptable to us after these licensing agreements expire, or at all. In the event that we are unable to license such advanced technologies from the third parties, we may be required to develop designed around technologies internally. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop such technologies internally. Disputes over intellectual property rights could be costly and could deprive us of technologies to stay competitive We may suffer legal liabilities and damages if we infringe on the proprietary rights of others or incur costs resulting from legal claims and adverse proceedings against us. Despite this, we have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States or elsewhere until they are granted or published. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, although such litigations in the semiconductor packaging and testing industry tend to not be so prevalent. If any third party were to make valid intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using disputed process technologies which would prevent us from offering some of our packaging and testing services; 11 Table of Contents • pay substantial monetary damages; • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We could also be required to expend substantial resources to defend any claim alleging our infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could seriously harm our company. In addition, we have acquired patents and trademarks to protect some of our proprietary technologies and manufacturing services. We cannot assure you, however, that these measures will provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property. For example, our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior manufacturing service technology, or we may not successfully protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. On March 1, 2006, we were informed of a lawsuit, or the California Litigation, brought by Tessera Inc., or Tessera, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us, our subsidiary Siliconware U.S.A., Inc. and five other semiconductor companies and their subsidiaries. Tessera alleges that some of our packaging services infringe patents owned by Tessera and that we have breached license agreements with Tessera. In May 2007, the parties stipulated a stay pending a final determination of an investigation directed against other parties (including certain co-defendants in the California Litigation) conducted by the U.S. International Trade Commission, or the ITC. Pursuant to the stipulation, the court has stayed the litigation. In February 2007, we filed requests for reexamination of five patents with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the PTO, four of which were asserted by Tessera against us in the California Litigation. The PTO has rejected part of the asserted patent claims on the grounds that each claim is invalid in view of certain prior art, and part of the asserted patent claims have been confirmed by the PTO. Tessera has appealed some of these decisions to the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences. As of December 2011, the stipulated stay has been lifted and the case is expected to move forward with ongoing discovery in 2012. Because litigation is inherently unpredictable, we are unable to predict the ultimate outcome of any dispute. We are vigorously defending against Tessera’s allegations. If the Tessera disputes are not resolved in our favor, we may be forced to pay significant monetary damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For more information, see “