Risk Factors Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization The covenants in the Credit Facility restrict the Company’s financial and operational flexibility, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. The Credit Facility contains covenants that restrict, among other things, the amount of the Company’s capital expenditures and the Company’s ability to borrow money, grant additional liens on its assets, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, sell assets or merge or consolidate. A company controlled by Mr. Carl Icahn, the Company’s Chairman of the Board of Directors and majority stockholder (the “Chairman”), holds more than 90% of the principal amount of the loans outstanding under the Credit Facility. Because amendments to or waivers of covenants under the Credit Facility generally require the approval or consent of holders of a majority of the outstanding principal amount under the Credit Facility, decisions whether to amend or waive compliance with such covenants by the holders of loans under the Credit Facility can be made by our Chairman. The Credit Facility includes a financial covenant requiring the Company to maintain minimum consolidated EBITDA for the twelve-month period ending each fiscal quarter. The Company did not meet this covenant in 2006 and, based on current financial results and the Company’s current business plan, the Company does not expect to comply with this covenant in 2007. The Company has obtained a waiver through December 31, 2007, but it cannot be certain that the Company will be able to obtain any further waivers of this, or any other, covenant under the Credit Facility. If the Company is not able to (i) obtain another waiver, (ii) amend the Credit Facility covenant to remove the minimum EBITDA requirements or decrease the requirement to a level that management believes can be achieved or (iii) repay the Credit Facility with a new debt or equity offering so that the Company is in compliance, the Company will be required to reclassify the approximately $336.7 million of its outstanding long term debt and accrued interest to current as of March 31, 2007. Although the existing waiver prevents the lenders under the Credit 28 Table of Contents Facility from accelerating repayment of the outstanding indebtedness under the Credit Facility until the March 31, 2008 covenant measurement date, this reclassification would cause a significant deterioration to the Company’s disclosed working capital and financial position. The security for the Credit Facility consists of substantially all of the Company’s wireline and wireless assets. A default under the Credit Facility could adversely affect the Company’s rights, and its ability to perform its obligations, under other commercial agreements. The Credit Facility also could affect the Company’s financial and operational flexibility, as follows: • they may impair its ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • they may limit its flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in market conditions; and • they may cause it to be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in business. The Company continues to explore the possibility of renegotiating or refinancing its existing credit facility and/or raising capital through one or more offerings of debt and/or equity securities. The Company may not prevail in its claims against the ATLT, and it may not be successful in defending against the ATLT’s counterclaims. As previously disclosed by the Company in its periodic reports filed with the SEC, the Company has asserted various claims against the ATLT in the approximate aggregate amount of $50 million, and the ATLT has asserted various counterclaims against the Company. On February 2, 2007, the Bankruptcy Court entered a corrected order adjudicating some, but not all, of those claims and counterclaims. Pursuant to that order, the Bankruptcy Court ruled, among other things, in favor of the ATLT on its counterclaim relating to the proceeds of certain Allegiance receivables (which ruling requires the Company to pay the minimum amount of approximately $8 million, subject to an upward adjustment of up to approximately $2 million depending on the decision of an accounting referee, plus interest), and against the Company on its claim for payment of a management fee (in the approximate amount of $30 million). Certain of the claims and counterclaims of the parties remain to be adjudicated through, among other things, a pending arbitration proceeding and an accounting referee process. There is no assurance that the Bankruptcy Court, the accounting referee or the arbitrator will rule in the Company’s favor. Also, there is no assurance that an appellate court considering an appeal of any ruling on any of the claims or counterclaims will rule in favor of the Company. The Company continues to review its remaining strategic alternatives. After the Company conducted a process in which its financial advisers solicited offers from a large number of third parties, on November 4, 2005, the Company entered into the Equity Purchase Agreement with Elk Associates, an entity controlled by the Company’s Chairman and the majority stockholder, which provided for the sale of the Company’s wireline business. The Equity Purchase Agreement was mutually terminated on March 30, 2006 and, accordingly, the contemplated sale of the Company’s wireline business did not occur. In light of the termination of the Elk Associates Equity Purchase Agreement, the Company engaged Bluefish Capital, Inc. (“Bluefish”) to assist it with a review of strategic alternatives. As part of this process, the Company sought, received and considered offers for the purchase of all or part of its wireline business, but credible offers that would have significantly enhanced shareholder value did not materialize. Immediately following this process, the Company determined that it was important to refocus on its core businesses as this was likely to be the most promising strategy for maximizing shareholder value. The Company retained a telecommunications consultant to assist in evaluating the marketplace and business trends. In addition, Bluefish has continued to and is currently assisting the Company with furnishing information to and cooperating with parties who have expressed interest in acquiring certain of the Company’s assets, including the wireline business, and aiding the Company in evaluating such expressions of interest. The Company continues to explore a broad range of strategic alternatives, including the possibility of renegotiating or refinancing its existing credit facility, consummating one or more business combinations, expansion of its core business, divesting certain assets, businesses or lines of business, including the wireline business; or raising capital through one or more offerings of debt and/or equity securities. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully execute its strategy, successfully refinance the existing Credit Facility, and/or successfully raise capital through one or more offerings of debt and/or equity 29 Table of Contents securities. Consequently, any of these failures could have material adverse consequences on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Company incurred a net loss in the past and, in the near term, may not generate funds from operations sufficient to meet all of its cash requirements. For each period since inception, the Company has incurred net losses. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 the Company incurred net losses allocable to common stockholders of approximately $143.8 million, $159.2 million and $410.5 million, respectively. In the near term, the Company expects to use available cash to fund any operating cash needs and its ongoing capital expenditure requirements. We may not generate sufficient funds to enable us to execute our business strategy. Risks Related to the Company’s Wireline Operations In the event of a substantial failure of the Company’s operations support systems, including the systems for sales tracking, order entry and provisioning, and billing, the Company’s Disaster Recovery System may not permit the recovery of its systems operations and/or perform critical aspects of its services for an extended period, which would adversely affect the Company’s revenues and/or capital resources. The Company’s disaster recovery framework to control and address systems risks is not fully redundant, and the Company may incur and/or suffer the costs, delays and customer complaints associated with system failures and may not be able to efficiently and accurately provision new orders for services on a timely basis to begin to generate revenue related to those services. The Company’s rights to the use of the unlit capacity that makes up its network may be affected by the financial health of the Company’s fiber providers. The Company possesses the right to use the unlit capacity that is included in its network, particularly in its inter-city network, through long-term leases or indefeasible right of use agreements. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of the Company’s rights under such leases and agreements with the provider, which in turn could have a negative impact on the integrity of the Company’s network, the ability to expand the capacity of the Company’s network as its business grows, and ultimately on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may not be able to continue to connect its network to ILEC networks or to maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair the Company’s growth and performance. The Company is required to be a party to interconnection agreements with ILECs in order to connect the Company’s customers to the public switched telephone network. If the Company is unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of its markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide services in the affected markets. Peering agreements with Internet service providers allow the Company to access the Internet and exchange traffic with these providers. Depending on the relative size of the providers involved, these exchanges may be made without settlement charges. Recently, many Internet service providers that previously offered peering have reduced or eliminated peering relationships or are establishing new, more restrictive criteria for peering and an increasing number of these providers are seeking to impose charges for transit. Increases in costs associated with Internet and exchange transit could have an adverse effect on the Company’s margins for its services that require Internet access. The Company may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which would impair its growth and performance. 30 Table of Contents The Company depends on a limited number of third party service providers for the performance of several of its business operations, including payroll and billing services. If any of these third party providers were to experience significant interruptions in their business operations, terminate their agreements with the Company, or fail to perform the services required under the terms of the Company’s contracts with them, its own processing could be materially and adversely affected for an indefinite period of time. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to locate alternative providers of such services, or that it could do so at economical rates. The Company may be unable to adequately protect its intellectual property or rights to licenses for use of third-party intellectual property, and may be subject to claims that the Company infringes the intellectual property of others, which could substantially harm the Company’s business. The Company relies on a combination of patents, copyrights, and other proprietary technology that it licenses from third parties. The Company has been issued several United States and foreign trademarks and may consider filing for additional trademarks in the future. The Company has also been issued one United States patent and may consider filing for additional patents in the future. However, the Company cannot assure that any additional patents or trademarks will be issued or that its issued patent or trademarks will be upheld in all cases. The Company cannot guarantee that these and other intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of the Company’s trademarks or technology or that its competitors or licensors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to the Company’s. In addition, the legal systems in many other countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. If the Company is unable to adequately protect its proprietary interests and business information or its present license arrangements, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, the dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. In the future, the Company may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation also may be necessary to enforce and protect the Company’s trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and cause diversion of management’s attention from the operation of the Company’s business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject the Company to significant liabilities or require it to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The Company could also be subject to court orders preventing it from providing certain services in connection with the delivery of services to its customers. The Company experiences turnover among its experienced and trained employee base, which could result in the Company’s inability to continue performing certain functions and completing certain initiatives in accordance with its existing budgets and operating plans. The Company depends on the performance of its executive officers and key sales, engineering, and operations personnel, many of whom have significant experience in the telecommunications industry and substantial tenures with either the Company or with one of the companies that the Company has acquired. The Company experiences turnover among its employees as a whole, and if the Company is not able to retain its executive officers or other key employees, it could experience a material and adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified employees remain highly competitive, and there can be no assurance that, if the Company loses one or more of its senior executives or key employees, the Company will be able to replace those persons, or, if it is able to replace such persons, that it will be able to do so without incurring significant additional labor costs or disruptions in its operations. Several customers, in the aggregate, account for a significant portion of the Company’s revenue, and some of its customer agreements may not continue due to bankruptcies, acquisitions, non-renewal, or other factors. As of December 31, 2006, the Company did not have any individual customers who provided more than 5% of its total revenue. However, the Company has substantial business relationships with several large 31 Table of Contents telecommunications carriers for whom it provides wireless, local and long distance transport services. The highly competitive environment and the industry consolidation in the long distance and wireless markets has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of the Company’s carrier customers, and has caused such carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity that they utilize among competing telecommunications services providers’ networks, including the Company’s. Replacing this revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and small to medium business customers tend to place smaller service orders than the Company’s larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on products that the Company sells to its carrier customers may challenge its ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if the Company’s larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from it, the Company’s revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company’s Wireless Operations Nextlink is in the early stages of development and the Company may not be able to implement its business strategy or to obtain new customers. Nextlink, the Company’s fixed wireless business, provides services in an emerging market and is subject to the inherent risks of early stage enterprises. In order to continue the growth and development of the fixed wireless business, significant capital expenditures would be required to, among other things, purchase equipment, acquire service locations and further develop the Company’s information technology systems. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully grow and develop its fixed wireless business even if such capital expenditures are made. There can also be no assurance that the market will accept the Company’s wireless services, or that developments in the communications market that management believes could contribute to the growth of the Company’s wireless business will be sustained. Two customers, one affiliated, account for nearly all of Nextlink’s revenue. Nextlink, the Company’s wireless business subsidiary, has a business relationship with XOC, its affiliate, for whom it provides wireless services, and also with an unaffiliated, large, mobile wireless telecommunications carrier for whom it provides cellular backhaul services (i.e., the movement of telecommunications traffic between cell sites and points of connection to wired networks). If Nextlink’s relationship with that unaffiliated, carrier customer were to deteriorate, or if that carrier customer were to experience significant adverse business developments, Nextlink’s revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s licenses may not be renewed upon expiration. The Company’s spectrum licenses in the LMDS and 39 GHz bands are granted for ten-year terms. The renewal dates for the Company’s LMDS licenses are generally in 2008. The renewal dates for its 39 GHz licenses are in 2010. To qualify for renewal of a license, the Company must demonstrate that it has provided “substantial service” by the end of the license term. The FCC’s “substantial service” renewal standard for both LMDS and 39 GHz licensees is intended to provide licensees with flexibility in renewing their licenses. The FCC’s “safe harbor” guidelines provide licensees with a degree of certainty as to how to comply with the requirement, but they are not the only way to demonstrate substantial service. The FCC has provided “safe harbor” examples of what would constitute substantial service for an LMDS and 39 GHz licensee. For an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer point-to-multipoint services, a demonstration of coverage to 20% of the population of its licensed area at the ten-year mark would constitute substantial service. In the alternative, for an LMDS licensee that chooses to offer fixed, point-to-point services, the construction of four permanent links per one million people in its licensed area would constitute substantial service. For a 39 GHz licensee, the FCC adopted the safe harbor of four links per million population. The FCC has taken a flexible approach to assessing whether LMDS and 39 GHz licensees are providing substantial services, including, for example, determining that a licensee is providing niche, specialized or technologically sophisticated services. Management expects the Company’s FCC licenses will not be reviewed for substantial service on a company-wide basis but rather on a license-by-license basis. While management expects that the Company will be able to 32 Table of Contents demonstrate that it is providing substantial service for each of its licenses, the FCC may modify its definition of substantial service. A key aspect of the Company’s business strategy is to provide backhaul services for providers of cellular wireless mobile telecommunications, and its business will depend to a substantial degree on the widespread adoption of bandwidth-intensive applications, such as 3G and 4G applications. One of the Company’s primary business strategies is to provide mobile telecommunications companies with backhaul services (i.e., the movement of telecommunications traffic between cell sites and points of connection to wired networks). Demand for backhaul services will depend, to a large extent, on the widespread acceptance and use of so-called third and fourth generation (“3G” and “4G”) mobile wireless technologies, such as high speed data service, video phone capability, telephone photography, streaming video, downloadable music, and video games. The implementation of 3G and 4G technologies may require cellular companies to upgrade equipment and make significant capital expenditures, which may be delayed by a number of factors outside of the Company’s control. Any delay in implementation could result in reduced demand for backhaul services, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to generate revenues and expand its business. The Company may not be able to successfully execute the necessary real estate transactions, or to negotiate acceptable rates in those agreements for placing antennas and having access to necessary equipment. The provision of the Company’s services may require that it enters into arrangements with certain property owners in order to attach equipment inside or on the rooftops of buildings where customers are located. Similar agreements may also be required in order to access transmission towers or buildings that the Company plans to use as hubs or repeaters for its networks. However, the Company may be unable to enter into access arrangements on favorable terms, or at all and therefore may be unable to service certain prospective customers. In addition, the general unavailability of transmission towers may hinder the expansion of the Company’s networks. Additional spectrum may become available from the FCC, increasing the number of and/or viability of the Company’s competitors or even allowing the Company’s customers or potential customers to obtain their own spectrum outright, reducing their need to obtain spectrum or services from the Company. Other entities may obtain FCC licenses to operate spectrum in the same markets as the Company, thereby offering similar capacity with comparable transmission reliability. These entities may decide to enter the Company’s business and offer services to telecommunications companies and its other targeted customers. They may be able to offer lower prices than the Company or may have more spectrum available to use in a given market than the Company. Alternatively, potential customers may decide to obtain equipment that operates on certain bands of frequencies that the FCC has designated, or may in the future designate, for use without individual FCC licensing. For example, the FCC still holds limited amounts of 39 GHz spectrum left over from the initial 39 GHz auction and also is considering a notice of proposed rulemaking relating to the possible auction of the 37 GHz band spectrum, which shares many physical similarities with the Company’s spectrum. Successful auctions in the 37 GHz or 39 GHz or other high frequency bands could increase the number of entities that hold the spectrum, and its general availability and could have a material adverse effect on the value of the Company’s spectrum. Potential customers that would otherwise use the Company’s services could instead decide to acquire spectrum rights in these auctions or obtain services from the winners of those auctions. Unsuccessful auctions of the spectrum may generate low winning bids and could therefore reduce the values of spectrum in neighboring bands, including the value of the Company’s spectrum licenses. Alternatively, the FCC may decide to allocate additional spectrum for licensing without auctions to certain classes of users, such as state and local government agencies, that otherwise might be potential customers of the Company’s services. The Company is dependent on key personnel and its success depends on its ability to attract, train and retain additional qualified personnel. The loss of one or more key personnel, or the Company’s failure to successfully recruit key personnel, could impair its ability to successfully build out and operate its services and network. The Company believes that its future 33 Table of Contents success also depends on its continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and management personnel. The Company believes that there is and will continue to be intense competition for qualified personnel in the wireless communications industry. The Company may not be successful in retaining its key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified technical and management personnel. FCC Regulation of radio frequency emissions and radio frequency environments may increase the Company’s costs and/or limit its operations. The FCC regulates the health and safety effects of radio frequency emissions for the Company and other wireless communications providers. Any FCC licensee whose emissions in an area exceed 5% of the total permissible emissions limit is responsible for ensuring that the site meets applicable health and safety requirements. The fixed wireless equipment the Company uses is designed to operate at radio frequency emission levels well below the FCC’s standard. However, if the Company operates in an area where other higher radio frequency emitters are operating, the Company could nonetheless be required to cooperate with, and contribute financially to, efforts intended to bring the site within applicable health and safety limits. Risks Related to Competition and the Company’s Industry Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition the Company faces and put downward pressure on prices, which could impair its results. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes — particularly those permitting ILECs to provide long distance services — are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. Additionally, some of the Company’s biggest competitors have been freed from certain regulatory requirements that required such competitors to make certain elements of their networks available to CLECs on just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory rates, terms and conditions. Furthermore, the increasing importance of data services has focused the attention of most telecommunications companies on this growing sector. As a result, a competitor in any of the Company’s business areas is potentially a competitor in its other business areas, which could impair its prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, and has experienced the consolidation of many existing competitors and the introduction of significant new competitors. The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of the Company’s competitors generate significantly greater revenue, and possess significantly greater assets and financial resources than the Company. This competition places downward pressure on prices for local and long distance telephone service and data services, which can adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Also, as the technology to deliver VoIP services is improved, more companies will be able to compete with the Company in its metro markets without constructing or acquiring public switched telephone network assets in those markets. In addition, the Company could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users. The Company is much smaller in size and resources than many of its competitors. If the Company is not able to successfully compete against its larger competitors and the new entrants into the telecommunications market, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The Company is subject to comprehensive and continually evolving regulation. The Company and some of its services and facilities are regulated by the FCC, states, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities in a regulatory environment that is becoming more challenging for CLECs. These regulators routinely conduct rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. These regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on the Company, give rights to competitors, increase the Company’s costs, and otherwise adversely affect its ability to implement its business plan. Attempts to limit the basic competitive framework of the Telecom Act could interfere with the successful implementation of the Company’s business plan. 34 Table of Contents The FCC’s Order on Remand FCC 04-290 of its Triennial Review Order rulemaking proceeding implemented in March 2005 significantly increased costs to CLECs like the Company for “last mile” access in key geographic areas. Additionally, one of the Company’s biggest competitors was recently freed from certain regulatory requirements that required it to make certain packet-switched and optical services available on just and reasonable terms. These and other similar regulatory developments could have detrimental effects on the Company’s CLEC business and could affect the Company’s ability to develop and implement strategic alternatives to the sale of its wireline business. Risks Related to the Company’s Common Stock An entity owned and controlled by our Chairman is the Company’s majority stockholder. An entity owned and controlled by the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, filed an amendment to its Form 13D with the Commission on May 1, 2006 disclosing that the Chairman’s beneficial ownership of the Company’s common stock was approximately 58.5% as of such date. As a result, the Company’s Chairman has the power to elect all of the Company’s directors. Under applicable law and the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws, certain actions cannot be taken without the approval of holders of a majority of the Company’s voting stock, including, without limitation, mergers and the sale of substantially all of the Company’s assets and amendments to its certificate of incorporation and by-laws. Future sales or issuances of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect the Company’s stock price and/or its ability to raise capital. Future sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock and the Company’s ability to raise capital. As of December 31, 2006, there were 182,001,285 shares of the Company’s common stock outstanding. The shares of common stock owned by an entity owned and controlled by the Company’s Chairman are restricted shares that may be sold only under a registration statement or an exemption from federal securities registration requirements. The Chairman, through Cardiff, has the right to require the Company to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shares of the Company’s common stock held by Cardiff and to include shares of the Company’s common stock held by Cardiff in certain registration statements filed by the Company from time to time. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, 4,000,000 shares of the Company’s 6% Class A Convertible Preferred Stock were outstanding. At such time, such shares of Preferred Stock were convertible into approximately 49,967,627 shares of the Company’s common stock. However, pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, the number of shares of common stock into which the Preferred Stock is convertible increases quarterly. A majority of the Preferred Stock is held by Cardiff and the remainder is held by various stockholders. Cardiff and such stockholders have the right to require the Company to register the Preferred Stock and the shares of common stock into which it is convertible under the Securities Act, and to include such Preferred Stock and/or common stock in certain registration statements filed by the Company from time to time. The Company has options outstanding to purchase approximately 9.8 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance under its 2002 Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2006. Unless surrendered or cancelled earlier under the terms of the stock incentive plan, those options will start to expire beginning in 2013. In addition, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes future grants of options to purchase common stock, or awards of restricted common stock, with respect to an additional 5.9 million shares of common stock in the aggregate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Table of Contents 