ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSNISOURCE INC.NiSource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock.NiSource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of NiSource’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, NiSource’s ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to NiSource, NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected.Following the Separation, all of the entities formerly included in NiSource's Columbia Pipeline Group Operations segment have been separated from NiSource and are held by a separate publicly traded company (CPG). The related assets are no longer held by subsidiaries of NiSource, which may negatively affect NiSource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends.The Separation may not achieve the intended benefits and may result in significant tax liabilities.NiSource cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the Separation will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, if at all. Furthermore, there are various uncertainties and risks relating to the process of the Separation that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including disruption of our operations and impairment of our relationship with regulators, key personnel, customers and vendors. As a result of the completion of the Separation, NiSource faces new and unique risks, including having fewer assets, reduced financial resources and less diversification of revenue sources. The Separation was conditioned on the receipt by NiSource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of CPG shares to NiSource stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under Section 355 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Even though NiSource has received such an opinion, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. Both NiSource and its stockholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.13Table of Contents