Item 1A. Risk Factors Before you invest in our securities, you should be aware that our business faces numerous financial and market risks, including those described below, as well as general economic and business risks. The following discussion provides information concerning the material risks and uncertainties that we have identified and believe may adversely affect our business, our financial condition and our results of operations. Before you decide whether to invest in our securities, you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in our other public filings. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our Stock is quoted on the OTC Market, which may decrease the liquidity of our common stock. On June 24, 2009, the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. suspended our common stock from trading on NASDAQ because we did not evidence a market value of listed securities above $35.0 million for ten consecutive trading days, or otherwise demonstrate compliance with alternative continued listing standards, during the period from April 2, 2009 and June 22, 2009. Since that time our common stock has been quoted on the OTC Market under the symbol AVSR. On August 6, 2009, we withdrew our appeal to the NASDAQ Listing and Hearing Review Council. On August 31, 2009, the NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. officially delisted our common stock. 16 Broker-dealers often decline to trade in OTC Market stocks given that the market for such securities is often limited, the stocks are more volatile, and the risk to investors is greater than with stocks listed on other national securities exchanges. Consequently, selling our common stock can be difficult because smaller quantities of shares can be bought and sold, transactions can be delayed and news media coverage of our Company may be reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of our common stock as well as lower trading volume. Investors should realize that they may be unable to sell shares of our common stock that they purchase. Accordingly, investors must be able to bear the financial risks associated with losing their entire investment in our common stock. Our common stock may be subject to penny stock rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their common stock. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” pursuant to Rule 3a51-1 of the Exchange Act. Broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in penny stocks are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the SEC. Penny stocks generally are defined as equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 per share. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to purchase or sale of a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver to the customer a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks associated with the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account sta tements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker-dealer make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market of a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. Our common stock has been and will likely continue to be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control, which may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has in the past been and could in the future be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: • General trends in the equities market, and/or trends in the technology sector; • Quarterly variations in our results of operations; • Announcements regarding our product developments; • The size and timing of agreements to license our remaining and future patent portfolio or enter into technology or distribution partnerships; • Developments in the examination of our patent applications by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; • Announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; • Announcements of competitive product introductions by our competitors; • Limited trading volume of shares; and, • Developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, or other events. If our revenue and results of operations are below the expectations of public market securities analysts or investors, then significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could occur. In addition, the securities markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for high technology and micro-cap companies, and which often are unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of specific companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefits to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that may inhibit changes in our control that are not approved by our Board of Directors. For example, the Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of this preferred stock, without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders. 17 These provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in the control of Avistar despite possible benefits to our stockholders, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders. Our principal stockholders can exercise a controlling influence over our business affairs and they may make business decisions with which you disagree and which may affect the value of your investment. Our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 65% of our common stock as of December 31, 2010. If they were to act together, these stockholders would be able to exercise control over most matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other investors. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Avistar, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If our share price is volatile, we may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. Many technology companies have been subject to this type of litigation. Our share price has, in the past, experienced price volatility, and may continue to do so in the future. If the market value of our common stock experiences adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the merits or outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted, causing our business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We recorded net income of $4.4 million for 2010, and net losses of $4.0 million for 2009 and $6.4 million for 2008. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $111.7 million. Our revenue and income from settlement and patent licensing may not increase, or even remain at its current level. In addition, our operating expenses, which have been reduced recently, may increase as we continue to develop our business and pursue licensing opportunities. As a result, to become profitable, we will need to increase our revenue and income from settlement and patent licensing by increasing sales to existing customers and by attracting additional new customers, distribution partners and licensees. If our revenue does not increase adequately, we may not b ecome profitable. Due to the volatility of our product and licensing revenue and our income from settlement and patent licensing activities, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve or to maintain profitability or to sustain or grow our profits within the time frame expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. Our expected future working capital needs may require that we seek additional debt or equity funding which, if not available on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. We may need to arrange for the availability of additional funding in order to meet our future business requirements. We have a revolving credit facility that matures on December 22, 2011, which provided us with a maximum line of credit amount of $8.0 million as of December 31, 2010. The line of credit was fully drawn in February 2011. On March 29, 2011, we issued $3.0 million of 4.5% Convertible Subordinated Secured Notes, with a two year term due in 2013, to Gerald Burnett, our Chairman. If we are unable to obtain additional funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our pr oducts, take advantage of opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, or finance our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to continue operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, reduce our expenditures by reducing our employee headcount in order to better align our expenditures with our available resources. Any such reductions may adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our business. Any significant changes in our organizational structure, sales, marketing and distribution strategies, licensing efforts and strategic direction, if unsuccessfully implemented, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have experienced significant changes in our management structure and composition in the past. Simon Moss was appointed as President of our products division in July 2007 and was appointed as our Chief Executive Officer in January 2008 when Gerald Burnett resigned from his position as our Chief Executive Officer. In January 2009, Bob Habig resigned from the position of Chief Financial Officer and he was replaced in that position by Elias MurrayMetzger, our Corporate Controller. In July 2009, Simon Moss resigned from his positions as Chief Executive Officer and board member. Shortly thereafter, Robert Kirk was appointed to replace Simon Moss as our Chief Executive Officer. In August 2009, Darren Innes resigned from the position of General Manager and Vice President, Global Sale s. 18 Organizational changes and initiatives in our business are aimed at reducing our structural costs, increasing our organizational and partner-driven capacity, leveraging our reputation for innovation and intellectual property leadership, and growing and expanding our business. However, these changes and initiatives involve transitional costs and expenses and result in uncertainty in terms of their implementation and their impact on our business. For example, our efforts to expand our market focus to additional verticals through the use of distribution partners has proven challenging as such distribution partners work to better understand our product and service offerings and integrate them into their own marketing and sales strategies. As with any significant organizational change, our initiatives will tak e time to implement, and the results of these initiatives may not be fully apparent in the near term. If our initiatives are unsuccessful in achieving our stated objectives, our business could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our market is in the early stages of development, and our system may not be widely accepted. Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part on the widespread adoption of networked video communications systems and the sale and adoption of our video system in particular, either as a separate solution or as a technology integrated into a unified communications platform. If the market for our system and technology fails to grow or grows more slowly than we anticipate, we may not be able to increase revenue or achieve profitability. The market for our system is relatively new and evolving. We have to devote substantial resources to educating prospective customers, distributors and technology partners about the uses and benefits of our system and the value added through the adoption of our technology. Our efforts to educate potential customers and partners may not result in our system achieving broad market acceptance. In a ddition, businesses that have invested or may invest substantial resources in other video products may be reluctant or slow to adopt our system or technology. Consequently, the conversion from traditional methods of communication to the extensive use of networked video and unified communications may not occur as rapidly as we wish. Our lengthy sales cycle to acquire new customers, large follow-on orders, distributors and technology partners may cause our operating results to vary significantly and make it more difficult to forecast our revenue. We have generally experienced a product sales cycle of four to nine months for new customers or large follow-on orders from existing customers through direct sales. This sales cycle is due to the time needed to educate customers about the uses and benefits of our system, and the time needed to process the investment decisions that our prospective customers must make when they decide to buy our system. Many of our prospective customers have neither budgeted expenses for networked video communications systems, nor for personnel specifically dedicated to the procurement, installation or support of these systems. As a result, our customers spend a substantial amount of time before purchasing our system in performing internal reviews and obtaining capital expenditure approvals. Economic conditions over the last several y ears have contributed to additional deliberation and an associated delay in the sales cycle. Our lengthy sales cycle is one of the factors that has caused, and may continue to cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year in the future. This makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue, and could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our shift to indirect distribution partners further limits the visibility we have on the progress and timing of large initial or follow-on orders. A lost or delayed order could result in lower than expected revenue in a particular quarter or year. There is also a tendency in the technology industry to close business deals at the end of a quarter, thereby increasing the likelihood that a possible material deal would not be concluded in a current quarter, but slip into a subsequent reporting period. This kind of delay ma y result in a given quarter’s performance being below shareholder expectations. Because we still depend on a few customers for a majority of our product revenue, patent licensing and sale revenue and services revenue, the loss of one or more of them could cause a significant decrease in our operating results. We currently depend on a limited number of customers with lengthy budgeting cycles and unpredictable buying patterns, and as a result, our revenue from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year may be volatile. The loss of a major customer or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers could cause our revenue to decline and our losses to increase. Adverse changes in our revenue or operating results as a result of these budgeting cycles or any other reduction in capital expenditures by our large customers could also substantially reduce the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to modify and improve our products in a timely and cost effective manner to respond to technological change and customer demands. Future hardware and software platforms embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and customer requirements could render our system non-competitive or even obsolete. Additionally, communication and collaboration products and technologies are moving towards integrated platforms characterized as unified communications. The market for our system reflects: 19 • Rapid technological change; • The emergence of new competitors; • Significant development costs; • Changes in the requirements of our customers and their communities of users; • Integration of joint solutions in collaboration platforms; • Evolving industry standards; • Transition from hardware appliances and infrastructure to software; and • Transition to Internet protocol connectivity for video at the desktop, with increasing availability of bandwidth and quality of service. Our system is designed to work with a variety of hardware and software configurations, and be integrated with commoditized components (example: “web cams”) of data networking infrastructures used by our customers. The majority of these customer networks rely on Microsoft Windows servers. However, our software may not operate correctly on other hardware and software platforms or with other programming languages, database environments and systems that our customers use. Also, we must constantly modify and improve our system to keep pace with changes made to our customers’ platforms, data networking infrastructures, and their evolving ability to integrate video with other applications. This may result in uncertainty relating to the timing and nature of our new release announcements, introductions or modifications, whi ch in turn may cause confusion in the market, with a potentially harmful effect on our business. If we fail to promptly modify, integrate, or improve our system in response to evolving industry standards or customers’ demands, our system could become less competitive, which would harm our financial condition and reputation. Difficulties or delays in integrating our products with technology partner’s products could harm our revenue and margins. We generally recognize initial product and installation revenue upon the installation of our system in those cases where we are responsible for installation, which often entails working with sophisticated software and computing and communications systems. Under certain circumstances initial product and installation revenue is recognized under the percentage of completion method. The estimate of current period percentage of completion requires significant management judgment and is subject to updates in future periods until the project is complete. If we experience difficulties with installations or do not meet deadlines due to delays caused by our customers or ourselves, we could be required to devote more customer support, technical, engineering and other resources to a particular installation, modification or enhancement project, and revenue may be delayed. Competition could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue. The market in which we operate is highly competitive. In addition, because our industry is relatively new and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving user needs, developing industry standards and protocols and the introduction of new products and services, it is difficult for us to predict whether or when new competing technologies or new competitors will enter our market. Currently, our competition comes from many other kinds of companies, including communication equipment, integrated solution, broadcast video and stand-alone “point solution” providers. Within the video-enabled network communications market, we compete primarily against Polycom, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Sony Corporation, Apple Inc., Radvision Ltd. and Emblaze-VCON Ltd. Many of these companies, including Polycom, Inc., Cisco , Sony, Radvision and Emblaze-VCON have acquired rights to use our patented technology through licensing agreements with us, which, in some cases, include rights to use future patents filed by us. With increasing interest in the power of video collaboration and the establishment of communities of users, we believe we face increasing competition from alternative video communications solutions that employ new technologies or new combinations of technologies from companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Nortel Networks Corporation that enable web-based or network-based video communications with low-cost digital camera systems. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors, partnerships of competitors, and from new market entrants with products that may be less expensive than ours, or that may provide better performance or additional features not currently provided by our products. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources, greater name recognition and market presence, longer operating histories, lower cost structures and larger customer bases than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. 20 We may be required to reduce prices or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract customers, pursue new market opportunities or invest in additional research and development efforts. As a result, our revenue, margins and market share may be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and partnerships of our competitors, or that competitive pressures faced by us will not harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic conditions may impact our revenues and harm our business in the future, as they have in the past. The U.S. and global economy has entered a recession and our customers and potential customers, partners and distributors may delay or forego ordering our products, and we could fall short of our revenue expectations for 2011 and beyond. Slower growth among our customers, tightening of customers’ operating budgets, retrenchment in the capital markets and other general economic factors all have had, and could in the future have, a materially adverse effect on our revenue, capital resources, financial condition and results of operations. The sale of substantially all of our patents and patent applications in January 2010 is expected to affect our cash, expenses, revenues and income in future periods. In prior periods, we have relied on patent licensing revenues and income from settlement and licensing activities to provide significant funding for our operations. We recognized a total of $15.1 million, $4.5 million, and $5.2 million in patent licensing and sale revenues and income from settlement and licensing activities for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. In January 2010, we sold substantially all of our patent portfolio and associated patent applications to Intellectual Ventures for a one time cash payment of $11.0 million. We retained royalty rights under our existing patent license agreements as well as a grant back license to the patents and patent applications for our current and future products. As a result of this sa le, we expect our efforts and expenditures on patent prosecution, licensing and settlement activities in future periods to be substantially reduced and our prospects for revenues from the licensing or sale of patents and patent applications and our prospects for generating new income from settlement and licensing activities to also be substantially reduced. Accordingly, our ongoing operations will have to be funded directly from operations and from debt and equity financing activities. Failure to generate cash from operations or from debt or equity financing activities could have a substantial and adverse affect on our business, operations and prospects. Future revenues and income from settlement and licensing activities are difficult to predict for several reasons, including our lengthy and costly licensing cycle. Our failure to predict revenues and income accurately may cause us to miss analysts’ estimates and result in our stock price declining. Because our licensing cycle is a lengthy process, the accurate prediction of future revenues and income from settlement and patent licensing from new licensees is difficult. The process of persuading companies to adopt our technologies can be lengthy, and other challenges to our patent portfolio may further complicate and delay our patent licensing efforts. There is also a tendency in the technology industry to close business deals at the end of a quarter, thereby increasing the likelihood that a possible material deal would not be concluded in a current quarter, but slip into a subsequent reporting period. This kind of delay may result in a given quarter’s performance being below analyst or shareholder expectations. The proceeds of our intellectual property licensing efforts tend to be sporadic and difficult to pre dict. Recognition of those proceeds as revenue or income from settlement and licensing activities depends on the terms of the license agreement involved, and the circumstances surrounding the agreement. To finance litigation to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may enter into contingency arrangements and other strategic transactions with investors, legal counsel or other advisors that would give such parties a significant portion of any future licensing and settlement amounts derived from our patent portfolio. As a result, our licensing and enforcement efforts are expected to result in significant volatility in our quarterly and annual financial condition and results of operations, which may result in us missing investor expectations, which may cause our stock price to decline. Infringement of our proprietary rights could affect our competitive position, harm our reputation or cost us money. We regard our system as open but proprietary. In an effort to protect our proprietary rights, we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing, non-disclosure and other agreements with our consultants, suppliers, customers, partners and employees. However, these laws and agreements provide only limited protection of our proprietary rights. In addition, we may not have signed agreements in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place and the protection they produce may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. Although we hold patents and have filed patent applications covering some of the inventions embodied in our systems, our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. It is possible that a third party could copy o r otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization and without our detection. In the event that we believe a third party is infringing our intellectual property rights, an infringement claim brought by us could, regardless of the outcome, result in substantial cost to us, divert our management’s attention and resources, be time consuming to prosecute and result in unpredictable damage awards. A third party may also develop similar technology independently, without infringing upon our patents and copyrights. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we sell our system may not protect our software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or other countries where we hold patents. As we move to more of a software based system, inadequate licensing controls, unauthorized copying, and use, or reverse engineering of our system could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 Others may bring infringement claims against us or challenge the legitimacy of our patents, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We have been party to such litigation in the past and may be again in the future. The prosecution and defense of such lawsuits would require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, and therefore may have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The duration and ultimate outcome of these proceedings are uncertain. We may be a party to additional litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property, or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property of others. These claims and any resulting lawsuit could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the vali dity of our patents has been challenged in the past and may be challenged in the future through reexamination requests or other means. These lawsuits or challenges of our patents legitimacy in the US or foreign patent offices, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • Stop selling, incorporating or using products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; • Obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may require us to license our intellectual property to such owner, or may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and • Redesign those products or services that use technology that is the subject of an infringement claim. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may be unable to manufacture, use, sell, import and export our products, which would reduce our revenues. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our consolidated operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. As a smaller reporting company, we are required to comply with certain portions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. We have expended significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. We cannot be certain that the actions we have taken and are taking to improve our internal control over financial reporting will be sufficient to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in subsequent reporting periods or that we will be able to implement our planned processes and procedures in a timely manner. In addition, we may be unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our cons olidated financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations and growth. If our customers do not perceive our system or services to be effective or of high quality, our brand and name recognition would suffer. We believe that establishing and maintaining brand and name recognition is critical for attracting and expanding our targeted customer base. We also believe that the importance of reputation and name recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend on the success of our marketing efforts, and on our ability to continue to provide high quality systems and services, neither of which can be assured. If our customers do not perceive our system or services to be effective or of high quality, our brand and name recognition will suffer, which would harm our business. Our system could have defects for which we could be held liable for, and which could result in lost revenue, increased costs, and loss of our credibility or delay in the further acceptance of our system in the market. Our system may contain errors or defects, especially when new products are introduced or when new versions are released. Despite internal system testing, we have in the past discovered software errors in some of the versions of our system after their introduction. Errors in new systems or versions could be found after commencement of commercial shipments, and this could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts or the loss of credibility with current or future customers. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue or a delay in market acceptance of our system, and could harm our reputation. 22 In addition, we have warranted to some of our customers that our software is free of viruses. If a virus infects a customer’s computer software, the customer could assert claims against us, which, regardless of their merits, could be costly to defend and could require us to pay damages and potentially harm our reputation. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability and certain contract claims. Our license agreements also typically limit a customer’s entire remedy to either a refund of the price paid or modification of our system to satisfy our warranty. However, these provisions vary as to their terms and may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. Although we maintain product liability (“errors and omissions”) insurance coverage, we cannot assure you that such coverage will be adequate. A product liability, warranty or other claim could harm our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Performance interruptions at a customer’s site could negatively affect the demand for our system or give rise to claims a gainst us. The third party software we license with our system may also contain errors or defects for which we do not maintain insurance. Typically, our license agreements transfer any warranty from the third party to our customers to the extent permitted. Product liability, warranty or other claims brought against us with respect to such warranties could, regardless of their merits, harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to expand our indirect distribution channel, our business will suffer. To increase our revenue, we must increase our indirect distribution channels, such as systems integrators, product partners and/or value-added resellers, which is a focus of our go-to market strategy, and/or effect sales through our customers. If we are unable to increase our indirect distribution channel due to our own cost constraints, limited availability of qualified partners or other reasons, our future revenue growth may be limited and our future operating results may suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining sales personnel and channel partners. Furthermore, it can take several months before a new hire or channel partner becomes a productive member of our sales force effort. The loss of existing salespeople, or the failure of new salespeople and/or indirect sa les partners to develop the necessary skills in a timely manner, could impact our revenue growth. We may not be able to retain our existing key personnel, or hire and retain the additional personnel that we need to sustain and grow our business. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel and we do not carry any “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key personnel could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and technologies are complex, and to successfully implement our business strategy and manage our business, an in-depth understanding of video communication and collaboration technologies and their potential uses is required. We need to attract and retain highly skilled technical and managerial personnel for whom there is intense competition. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel due to our own cost constraints, limited availability of qualified personnel or other reasons, our results of operations could suffer and we may never achieve profitability. The failure of new personnel to develop the necessary skills in a timely manner could harm our business. Our plans call for growth in our business, and our inability to achieve or manage growth could harm our business. Failure to achieve or effectively manage growth will harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive or to expand our business, we may find it desirable in the future to acquire other businesses, products or technologies. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, to finance the acquisition or to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and operations. In addition, completing a potential acquisition and integrating an acquired business may strain our resources and require significant management time. Our international operations expose us to potential tariffs and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements and laws and economic and political instability, as well as other risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. International revenue, which consists of sales to customers with operations principally in Western Europe and Asia, comprised 33%, 44%, and 51% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Some of the risks we may encounter in conducting international business activities include the following: 23 • Tariffs and other trade barriers; • Unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements and laws; • Economic and political instability; • Increased risk of infringement claims; • Protection of our intellectual property; • Restrictions on the repatriation of funds; • Potentially adverse tax consequences; • Timing, cost and potential difficulty of adapting our system to the local language standards in those foreign countries that do not use the English language; • Fluctuations in foreign currencies; and • Limitations in communications infrastructures in some foreign countries. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing substances and materials in products, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. We could incur substantial costs, including fines and sanctions, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that apply to specified electronics products sold in the European Union (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive). The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. International political instability may increase our cost of doing business and disrupt our business. Increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures and/or sustained military action may halt or hinder our ability to do business, may increase our costs and may adversely affect our stock price. This increased instability has had and may continue to have negative effects on financial markets, including significant price and volume fluctuations in securities markets. If this international political instability continues or escalates, our business and results of operations could be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 