ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization We have incurred a net loss in the past and may not generate funds from operations or financing activities sufficient to meet all of our operating or capital cash requirements and, if we are unable to meet our needs for additional funding in the future, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. For each period since inception, we have incurred net losses. For 2008, 2007 and 2006 our net losses allocable to common stockholders were $117.1 million, $131.6 million and $145.4 million, respectively. The terms of our 6% Class A Convertible Preferred Stock (“Class A Preferred Stock”) require that on January 15, 2010, we redeem in cash and in a manner provided for therein all of the shares of Class A Preferred Stock then outstanding at a redemption price equal to 100% of its liquidation preference. On February 5, 2009, ACF Industries Holding Corp. (“ACF Holding”), an affiliate of Mr. Carl Icahn, the Chairman of our Board of Directors and our majority stockholder (the “Chairman”), agreed to extend the date on which we would be required to redeem the shares of Class A Preferred Stock held by ACF Holding from January 15, 2010 to a date no later than April 15, 2010. ACF Holding is the record holder of 3,096,549 shares of Class A Preferred Stock (the “ACF Holding Shares”) which represent 77.4% of the outstanding shares of the Class A Preferred Stock. The extension will not affect the redemption date of any of the shares of Class A Preferred Stock other than the ACF Holding Shares. We do not currently intend to use any of our available cash to redeem any shares of our Class A Preferred Stock. Reductions in our cash balance and recent market volatility in the corporate debt markets may adversely impact our ability to raise additional capital on financially favorable terms. We have not yet determined how we will secure the funds necessary to redeem the Class A Preferred Stock and expect that the redemption will depend on market conditions between now and the date of final redemption, as well as other factors. No assurance can be given as to the specific means by which we will maintain necessary levels of liquidity and there can be no assurance that we will have the cash available to redeem the Class A Preferred Stock when it is required to be redeemed. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not generate sufficient funds from operations to redeem our Class A Preferred Stock or execute our long-term, strategic business plan, and we may be required to delay or reduce the scope of our capital expenditure activities, eliminate certain expenditures on long-term initiatives and/or implement cash preservation measures. In such a capital restricted situation, we may be forced to sell assets or securities on an untimely or unfavorable basis or cease our operations. Unfavorable general economic conditions in the United States could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the current recession in the United States and the ongoing financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. Although it is difficult to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. Additionally, our business is dependent on third-party suppliers for hardware, software and services integral to our business. If these suppliers encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply hardware, software and services to us may be 25 curtailed and if we are unable to quickly identify suitable alternatives, we may incur significant additional costs or may not be able to provide certain products or services to customers. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or worsen, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to our Wireline Operations Our rights to use the fiber that makes up our network may be affected by the financial health of, or disputes with, our fiber providers. We possess rights to the fiber that is included in our networks, particularly in our inter-city network, through long-term leases or IRU agreements. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and IRUs. If this were to occur, it could have a negative impact on the integrity and quality of our network, on our ability to expand the capacity of our network, and ultimately on our results of operations. If one or more of our fiber providers, as a result of a dispute with us, were to prevent us from lighting more fiber, such actions could have similar negative impacts on our operations and results. We depend on third-parties for the performance of certain network services and business operations. We depend on various third parties including ILECs, CLECs and regional fiber providers to provide us with high-quality, reliable service for portions of our wireline network through long-term leases or IRU agreements. Furthermore, our network is made up of hardware and software provided by various third parties, including Cisco, Juniper, Nortel, Sonus, and Broadsoft. We are continually adding new hardware and software into our network as we expand or replace older equipment. In addition, we receive periodic hardware and software updates from our vendors. To operate effectively, all the various network elements must operate smoothly. Although we test new equipment before we add it to our network, there can be no assurance testing will catch all potential problems. To the extent that problems arise from third party hardware or software including interoperability with other network elements, the performance of our network may diminish. We use third parties to perform certain aspects associated with operating our network, including the signaling associated with completing voice calls. Additionally, we rely on third parties, including other carriers and equipment vendors, to perform certain maintenance and repair network services for us, including routine maintenance and repair work to correct network outages that may occur from time to time. If these third parties do not perform the specified services required under the terms of our contracts with them, or in a timely manner, the performance of our network could be adversely impacted. If any of the above referenced third parties fail to fully perform their obligations, were to experience significant reduction in quality, or terminate their agreements with us, such actions could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to locate alternative providers of such services or do so at economical rates. Certain of our business operations including payroll processing, billing services and accounts payable are outsourced to third party providers. As part of our transformation plan, we are calculating cost benefit analyses of outsourcing additional processes. If any of these third-party providers were to experience significant interruptions in their business operations or terminate their agreements with us, our own processing could be materially and adversely affected for an indefinite period of time. There can be no assurance that we would be able to locate alternative providers of such services or that we could do so at economical rates. The failure of our operations support systems could impair our ability to retain customers, provision their services, or result in increased capital expenditures. In the event of a substantial failure of one or more of our operations support systems, our disaster recovery framework (including the systems for sales tracking, billing, order entry, provisioning and trouble ticketing) is not fully redundant and may not permit the recovery of our systems operations and/or perform critical aspects of our services for an extended period. We may incur and/or suffer the costs, delays and customer complaints 26 associated with system failures and may not be able to efficiently and accurately provision new orders for services on a timely basis to begin to generate revenue related to those services. We may not be able to continue to connect our network to ILEC networks or to maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms, which could impair our growth and performance. We need interconnection agreements with ILECs in order to connect our customers to the PSTN. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on favorable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets or our ability to provide services on a price-competitive basis. We maintain peering agreements with various ISPs that allow us to exchange Internet traffic with these providers. These exchanges are made under short-term contracts and may be made without the payment of settlement charges by either party (“settlement-free peering”) or may specify the payment of fees by one party to the other (“paid peering”). In the future, ISPs may change the terms of these peering relationships; including reducing or eliminating peering relationships, establishing more restrictive criteria for settlement-free peering, or imposing new or larger fees. Increases in costs associated with the exchange of Internet traffic could adversely affect our margins for Internet based services. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on favorable terms, which could impair our growth and performance. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or rights to licenses for use of third-party intellectual property, and may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property of others, which could substantially harm our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and other proprietary technology that we license from third parties. We have been issued several United States and foreign trademarks and may consider filing for additional trademarks in the future. We have also been issued one United States patent and may consider filing for additional patents in the future. However, we cannot assure that any additional patents or trademarks will be issued or that our issued patent or trademarks will be upheld in all cases. We cannot guarantee that these and other intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our trademarks or technology or that our competitors or licensors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to ours. In addition, the legal systems in many other countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary interests and business information or our present license arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. In the future, we may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation also may be necessary to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and cause diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We could also be subject to court orders preventing us from providing certain services in connection with the delivery of services to our customers. Risks Related to our Wireless Operations Nextlink is in the early stages of development and we may not be able to implement its business strategy or to obtain new customers. Nextlink, our fixed wireless business, provides services in an emerging market and is subject to the inherent risks of early stage enterprises. In order to continue the growth and development of the fixed wireless business, significant capital expenditures would be required to, among other things, purchase equipment, acquire service locations and further develop our information technology systems. There can be no assurance that we will successfully grow and develop our fixed wireless business even if such capital expenditures are made. There 27 can also be no assurance that the market will accept our wireless services, or that developments in the communications market that management believes could contribute to the growth of our wireless business will be sustained. Our spectrum licenses may not be renewed upon expiration, which could harm our business. Our spectrum licenses in the LMDS and 39 GHz bands are granted for ten-year terms. The renewal dates for Nextlink’s 39 GHz licenses are in 2010. Ninety of Nextlink’s 91 LMDS licenses were up for renewal in 2008. The FCC has granted renewal of 77 of these licenses with another 13 renewal requests still pending at the FCC. Failure to renew its licenses could have an adverse effect on Nextlink’s operations and financial results. In order to secure renewal of its LMDS licenses, Nextlink must generally be in compliance with all relevant FCC rules and demonstrate that it is providing “substantial service” in its licensed areas. During 2007, the FCC granted Nextlink’s extension request to demonstrate substantial service until June 1, 2012 for the 48 LMDS licenses for which Nextlink sought an extension. In another action by the FCC, on April 15, 2008, the FCC approved Nextlink’s successful demonstration of substantial service in an additional 30 of Nextlink’s LMDS licensed markets. Substantial service showings for 13 of Nextlink’s remaining LMDS licensed markets are pending at the FCC. Failure to demonstrate substantial service in any licensed market could have an adverse effect on Nextlink’s operations and financial results. While management expects that we will be able to secure FCC approval of Nextlink’s pending substantial service filings, there is no assurance that Nextlink will receive FCC approval. Our business depends on the widespread adoption of bandwidth-intensive applications, such as 3G and 4G applications, and if widespread adoption does not occur, our business would be harmed. One of our primary business strategies is to provide mobile telecommunications companies with backhaul services. Demand for backhaul services still depends, to a large extent, on the widespread acceptance and use of 3G and 4G mobile wireless technologies, such as high speed data service, video phone capability, telephone photography, streaming video, downloadable music, and video games. The implementation of 3G and 4G technologies may require wireless service providers to upgrade equipment and make significant capital expenditures, which may be delayed by a number of factors outside of our control. Any delay in implementation could result in reduced demand for backhaul services, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and expand our business. We may not be able to successfully execute the necessary real estate transactions, or to negotiate acceptable rates in those agreements for placing antennas and having access to necessary equipment. The provision of our services requires that we enter into arrangements with certain property owners in order to attach equipment inside or on the rooftops of buildings where customers are located. Similar agreements are required in order to access transmission towers or buildings that we plan to use as points-of-presence or repeaters for Nextlink’s networks. However, we may be unable to enter into access arrangements on favorable terms, or at all, and therefore may be unable to service certain prospective customers. Additional spectrum may become available from the FCC, increasing the number of and/or viability of our competitors or even allowing our customers or potential customers to obtain their own spectrum outright, reducing their need to obtain spectrum or services from us. Other entities may obtain FCC licenses to operate spectrum in the same markets as us, thereby offering similar capacity with comparable transmission reliability. These entities may be able to offer lower prices than us or may have more spectrum available to use in a given market than us. Alternatively, potential customers may decide to obtain equipment that operates on certain bands of frequencies that the FCC has designated, or may in the future designate, for use without individual FCC licensing. For example, the FCC still holds limited amounts of 39 GHz spectrum left over from the initial 39 GHz auction and also is considering a notice of proposed rulemaking relating to the possible auction of the 37 GHz band spectrum, which shares many physical similarities with our spectrum. Successful auctions in the 37 GHz 28 or 39 GHz or other high frequency bands could increase the number of entities that hold the spectrum, and its general availability and could have a material adverse effect on the value of our spectrum. Potential customers that would otherwise use our services could instead decide to acquire spectrum rights in these auctions or obtain services from the winners of those auctions. Unsuccessful auctions of the spectrum may generate low winning bids and could therefore reduce the values of spectrum in neighboring bands, including the value of our spectrum licenses. Alternatively, the FCC may decide to allocate additional spectrum for licensing without auctions to certain classes of users, such as state and local government agencies, that otherwise might be potential customers of our services. FCC Regulation of radio frequency emissions and radio frequency environments may increase our costs and/or limit Nextlink’s operations. The FCC regulates the health and safety effects of radio frequency emissions for Nextlink and other wireless communications providers. Any FCC licensee whose emissions in an area exceed five percent of the total permissible emissions limit is responsible for ensuring that the site meets applicable health and safety requirements. The fixed wireless equipment we use is designed to operate at radio frequency emission levels well below the FCC’s standard. However, if we operate in an area where other higher radio frequency emitters are operating, we could nonetheless be required to cooperate with, and contribute financially to, efforts intended to bring the site within applicable health and safety limits, which could increase our costs and/or limit our operations. Risks Related to Competition and our Industry The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, and has experienced the consolidation of many existing competitors and the introduction of significant new competitors. If we are not able to successfully compete against existing and new competitors, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The communications industry is highly competitive. Many of our competitors generate greater revenue, and possess significantly greater assets and financial resources than us. This competition places downward pressure on prices for local and long distance telephone service and data services, which can adversely affect our operating results. Also, as the technology to deliver VoIP services is improved, more companies will be able to compete with us in our metropolitan markets without constructing or acquiring public switched telephone network assets in those markets. In addition, we could face competition from other companies, such as other competitive carriers, cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end-users. If we are not able to successfully compete against our larger competitors and the new entrants into the telecommunications market, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to retain and recruit talented employees. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key sales, engineering, and operations personnel, many of whom have significant experience in the telecommunications industry. If we were to experience the loss of a significant number of our professionals in the future, it could adversely affect our results of operations, including our ability to continue performing certain functions and to complete certain initiatives in accordance with our existing budgets and operating plans. To attract and retain the number of employees we need to grow our business, we may have to increase our compensation levels or incur higher recruiting costs in the future. We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers, and some of our customer agreements may not continue due to bankruptcies, acquisitions, non-renewal, or other factors, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers for whom we provide wireless, local and long distance transport services. However, as of December 31, 2008, we did not 29 have any individual customers who generated more than ten percent of our total revenue. The highly competitive environment and the industry consolidation in the long distance and wireless markets has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers, and has caused such carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity that they use among competing telecommunications services providers’ networks, including ours. Replacing this revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and small to medium business customers tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on services that we sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices, which could impair our results. New technologies, such as VoIP, and regulatory changes — particularly those permitting ILECs to provide long distance services — are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. Additionally, some of our biggest competitors have been freed from certain regulatory requirements that required such competitors to make certain elements of their networks available to CLECs on just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory rates, terms and conditions. Furthermore, the increasing importance of data services has focused the attention of most telecommunications companies on this growing sector. This increased competition could impair our prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to comprehensive and continually evolving regulation, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. XOH and some of its services and facilities are regulated by the FCC, states, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities in a regulatory environment that is becoming more challenging for CLECs. These regulators routinely conduct rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. These regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on us, give rights to competitors, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. Attempts to limit the basic competitive framework of the Telecom Act could interfere with the successful implementation of our business plan. The FCC’s Order on Remand FCC 04-290 of its Triennial Review Order rulemaking proceeding implemented in March 2005 significantly increased costs to CLECs like us for “last mile” access in key geographic areas. Additionally, one of our biggest competitors was recently freed from certain regulatory requirements that required it to make certain packet-switched and optical services available on just and reasonable terms. These and other similar regulatory developments could have detrimental effects on our CLEC business. Risks Related to our Common Stock An entity owned and controlled by our Chairman is our majority stockholder. As disclosed in amendments to its Schedule 13D filed with the SEC by an entity owned and controlled by the Chairman, the Chairman beneficially owns approximately 89.0% of the aggregate vote of shares of XOH. As a result, the Chairman has the power to elect all of our directors. Under applicable law and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, certain actions can be taken with the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock, including mergers, sale of substantially all of our assets and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws. 30 Future sales or issuances of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price and/or our ability to raise capital. Future sales or issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock and our ability to raise capital. As of December 31, 2008, there were 182,075,035 shares of our common stock outstanding. There are also options outstanding to purchase 9.0 million shares of our common stock that have been reserved for issuance under the XO Communications, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the “2002 Plan”) as of December 31, 2008. Unless surrendered or cancelled earlier under the terms of the 2002 Plan, those options will begin to expire in 2013. In addition, the 2002 Plan authorizes future grants of options to purchase our common stock, or awards of our restricted common stock, with respect to 6.6 million additional shares of our common stock. XOH has warrants outstanding which allow the holders to purchase up to an additional 23.7 million shares of our common stock. The warrants consist of (i) Series A warrants to purchase 9.5 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $6.25 per share, (ii) Series B warrants to purchase 7.1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.50 per share and (iii) Series C warrants to purchase 7.1 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share. The warrants will expire on January 16, 2010, which is seven years after the date of issuance. The exercise price applicable to each respective series of warrants is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2008, 4.0 million shares of our 6% Class A preferred stock were outstanding. At such time, such shares of Class A preferred stock were convertible into 56,288,161 shares of our common stock. However, pursuant to the terms of the Class A preferred stock, the number of shares of common stock into which the Class A preferred stock is convertible increases quarterly. A majority of the Class A preferred stock is held by ACF Holding, an affiliate of the Chairman, and the remainder is held by various stockholders. ACF Holding and such stockholders have the right to require us to register for resale the Class A preferred stock and the shares of common stock into which it is convertible under the Securities Act, and to include such preferred stock and/or common stock in certain registration statements filed by us from time to time. As of December 31, 2008, approximately half of the Class A preferred stock shares have been registered. On July 25, 2008, 555,000 shares of our 7% Class B convertible preferred stock were issued to affiliates of our Chairman for an aggregate purchase price of $555.0 million. These shares are convertible after July 25, 2009, subject to a possible extension of no more than 90 days, at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, the Class B convertible preferred stock was convertible into 381,452,836 shares of our common stock. However, pursuant to the terms of the Class B convertible preferred stock, the number of shares of common stock into which the Class B convertible preferred stock is convertible increases quarterly unless we elect to pay cash dividends in lieu of such accretion for any quarterly period. The holders of the Class B convertible preferred stock have the right to require us to register for resale the Class B convertible preferred stock and the shares of common stock into which it is convertible under the Securities Act, and to include such preferred stock and/or common stock in certain registration statements filed by us from time to time. As of December 31, 2008, none of the Class B convertible preferred stock shares have been registered. 31 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 