Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully each of the following risks and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Our stock price, like that of many technology companies, has been and may continue to be volatile. We expect that the market price of our Class A common stock will continue to be volatile. We are involved in a highly visible, rapidly changing industry and stock prices in our industry and similar industries have risen and fallen in response to a variety of factors, including: • announcements of new wireless data communications technologies and new providers of wireless data communications; • announcements of the issuance of new patents • acquisitions of, or strategic alliances among, providers of wireless data communications; • changes in recommendations by securities analysts regarding the results or prospects of providers of wireless data communications; • changes in investor perceptions of the acceptance or profitability of wireless data communications; and • other global economic uncertainties. If wireless carriers do not continue to provide additional products and services to their subscribers, our business could be harmed. If wireless carriers limit their product and service offerings or do not purchase additional products containing our applications, our business will be harmed. Wireless carriers face implementation and support challenges in introducing Internet-based services via wireless devices, which may slow the rate of adoption or implementation of our products and services. Historically, wireless carriers have been relatively slow to implement complex new services such as Internet-based services. Our future success depends upon a continued increase in the use of wireless devices to access the Internet and upon the continued development of wireless devices as a medium for the delivery of network-based content and services. We have no control over the pace at which wireless carriers implement these new services. The failure of wireless carriers to introduce and support services utilizing our products in a timely and effective manner could reduce sales of our products and services and seriously harm our business. 11 We may fail to support our anticipated growth in operations which could reduce demand for our services and materially adversely affect our revenue. Our business strategy is based on the assumption that the market demand, the number of customers, the amount of information they want to receive and the number of services we offer will all increase. We must continue to develop and expand our systems and operations to accommodate this growth. The expansion and adaptation of our systems operations requires substantial financial, operational and management resources. Due to the limited deployment of our services to date, the ability of our systems and operations to connect and manage a substantially larger number of customers while maintaining superior performance is unknown. Any failure on our part to develop and maintain our wireless data services as we experience rapid growth could significantly reduce demand for our services and materially adversely affect our revenue. Also, if we incorrectly predict the market areas that will grow significantly, we could expend significant resources that could have been expended on other areas that do show significant growth. We could incur substantial costs from product liability claims relating to our software. Our agreements with customers may require us to indemnify customers for our own acts of negligence and non-performance. Product liability and other forms of insurance are expensive and may not be available in the future. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amounts or that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim. A product liability or similar claim may adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our operating results could be adversely affected by any interruption of our data delivery services or system failure. Our E9-1-1, hosted location-based services and mobile asset delivery operations depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment and systems in effective working order, and to protect our systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, sabotage, unauthorized access to our system or similar events. Although all of our mission-critical systems and equipment are designed with built-in redundancy and security, any unanticipated interruption or delay in our operations or breach of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any addition or expansion of our facilities to increase capacity could increase our exposure to natural or other disasters. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses that may occur in the event of a system failure or a breach of security. Furthermore, insurance may not be available to us at all or, if available, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Because we rely on a few key customers, our revenue may decline if we fail to retain those customers. To date, the largest customers for our product and service offerings in terms of revenue generated have been AT&T Wireless, Sprint, Hutchison 3G, Verizon Wireless, and the U.S. government. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, each of Verizon Wireless and the U.S. government accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, each of Verizon Wireless, AT&T Wireless (formerly known as Cingular Wireless), and the U.S. government accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue. We expect to generate a significant portion of our total revenue from these customers for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the largest customers for our Commercial Segment were Verizon Wireless and AT&T Wireless, and the largest customers for our Government Segment were various U.S. government agencies. Our growth depends on maintaining relationships with our major customers and on developing other customers and distribution channels. The loss of any of the customers discussed in this paragraph would have a material adverse impact on our business. 12 Because we rely on key partners to expand our marketing and sales efforts, if we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with strategic partners and indirect distribution channels our license revenues could decline. We have announced strategic partnerships with Motorola and Alcatel-Lucent, and are working on additional partnerships to provide supplemental channels for the marketing and sale of our software applications. Our growth depends on maintaining relationships with these partners and on developing other distribution channels. The loss of any of these partners would have a material adverse impact on our business. Because our business may not generate sufficient cash to fund operations, we may not be able to continue to grow our business if we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, and our bank line of credit, coupled with the funds anticipated to be generated from operations will be sufficient to finance our operations for at least the next twelve months. Although we currently believe that we have sufficient capital resources to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditures requirements beyond the next twelve months, unanticipated events could cause us to fall short of our capital requirements. In addition, such unanticipated events could cause us to violate our bank line of credit covenants causing the bank to foreclose on the line and/or opportunities may make it necessary for us to return to the public markets, or establish new credit facilities or raise capital in private transactions in order to meet our capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our line of credit and term loan agreement contains covenants requiring us to maintain a minimum adjusted quick ratio and a minimum liquidity ratio; as well as other restrictive covenants including, among others, restrictions on our ability to merge, acquire assets above prescribed thresholds, undertake actions outside the ordinary course of our business (including the incurrence of indebtedness), guarantee debt, distribute dividends, and repurchase our stock, and minimum tangible net worth. The agreement also contains a subjective covenant that requires (i) no material adverse change in the business, operations, or financial condition of our Company occur, or (ii) no material impairment of the prospect of repayment of any portion of the bank credit agreement; or (iii) no material impairment of value or priority of the lenders security interests in the collateral of the bank credit agreement. We believe that we will continue to comply with our restrictive covenants under our debt agreements. If our performance does not result in compliance with any of the restrictive covenants, or if our line of credit agreement lender seeks to exercise its rights under the subjective acceleration clause referred to above, we would seek to further modify our financing arrangements, but there can be no assurance that our debt holders would not exercise their rights and remedies under their agreements with us, including declaring all outstanding debt due and payable. Our short-term investments are subject to market fluctuations which may affect our liquidity. Although we have not experienced any losses on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, declines in the market values of these investments in the future could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Historically, we have invested in AAA rated money market funds meeting certain criteria. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be directly or indirectly impacted by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets causing credit and liquidity issues. If an issuer defaults on its obligations, or its credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, losses or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents and short-term investments could decline and could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Variations in quarterly operating results due to factors such as changes in demand for our products and changes in our mix of revenues and costs may cause our Class A common stock price to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. For example, 2007 revenues of our Government Segment were higher in the second half of the year than in the first half, whereas its 2006 revenues were higher in the first half of the year than in the second. In 2005, revenues from our Government Segment were significantly higher in the second half of the year than in the first half. In addition, we generally derive a significant portion of wireless carrier license revenue in our 13 Commercial Segment from initial license fees. The initial license fees that we receive in a particular quarter may vary significantly. As these projects begin and end, quarterly results may vary. We therefore believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance, and you should not rely on them to predict our future performance or the future performance of our Class A common stock. Our quarterly revenues, expenses and operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. If our operating results in future quarters fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors, the market price of our stock may fall. Additional factors that have either caused our results to fluctuate in the past or that are likely to do so in the future include: • changes in our relationships with wireless carriers, the U.S. government or other customers; • timing of introduction of new products and services; • changes in pricing policies and product offerings by us or our competitors; • changes in projected profitability of acquired assets that would require the write down of the value of the goodwill reflected on our balance sheet. • costs associated with advertising, marketing and promotional efforts to acquire new customers; • capital expenditures and other costs and expenses related to improving our business, expanding operations and adapting to new technologies and changes in consumer preferences; and • our lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle. Growing market acceptance of “open source” software could cause a decline in our revenues and operating margins. Growing market acceptance of open source software has presented both benefits and challenges to the commercial software industry in recent years. “Open source” software is made widely available by its authors and is licensed “as is” for a nominal fee or, in some cases, at no charge. For example, Linux is a free Unix-type operating system, and the source code for Linux is freely available. We have incorporated some types of open source software into our products, allowing us to enhance certain solutions without incurring substantial additional research and development costs. Thus far, we have encountered no unanticipated material problems arising from our use of open source software. However, as the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products, which could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and operating margins. Because our product offerings are sold internationally, we are subject to risks of conducting business in foreign countries. Wireless carriers in Europe, Asia, Australia, Africa and Central and South America have purchased our products. We believe our revenue will be increasingly dependent on business in foreign countries, and we will be subject to the social, political and economic risks of conducting business in foreign countries, including: • inability to adapt our products and services to local business practices, customs and mobile user preferences; • costs of adapting our product and service offerings for foreign markets; • inability to locate qualified local employees, partners and suppliers; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; 14 • the potential burdens of complying with a variety of U.S. and foreign laws, trade standards and regulatory requirements, including the regulation of wireless communications and the Internet and uncertainty regarding liability for information retrieved and replicated in foreign countries; • general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations; and • unpredictable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business by diverting time and money toward addressing them or by reducing or eliminating sales in such foreign countries. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from sales to various agencies of the U.S. government which has special rights unlike other customers and exposes us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Sales to various agencies of the U.S. government accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, all of which was attributable to our Government Segment. Our ability to earn revenue from sales to the U.S. government can be affected by numerous factors outside of our control including: • The U.S. government may terminate the contracts it has with us. All of the contracts we have with the U.S. government are, by their terms, subject to termination by the U.S. government either for its convenience or in the event of a default by us. In the event of termination of a contract by the U.S. government, we may have little or no recourse. • Our contracts with the U.S. government may be terminated due to Congress failing to appropriate funds. Our U.S. government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Any failure by Congress to appropriate funds to any program that we participate in could materially delay or terminate the program and have a material adverse effect on our business. • We are subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations which carry significant penalties for non-compliance. We are subject to extensive and complex U.S. government procurement laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and with laws governing the export of controlled products and commodities, and any significant violations of any other federal law, could subject us to potential contract termination, civil and criminal penalties, and under certain circumstances, suspension and debarment from future U.S. government contracts. Additionally, the U.S. government may audit and review our costs and performance on their contracts, as well as our accounting and general practices. The costs and prices under these contracts may be subject to adjustment based upon the results of any audits. Future audits may harm our business. Because several of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, we could lose customers and market share. Our business is highly competitive. Several of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In particular, larger competitors have certain advantages over us which could cause us to lose customers and impede our ability to attract new customers, including: larger bases of financial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources; more established relationships with wireless carriers; more funds to deploy products and services; and the ability to lower prices of competitive products and services because they are selling larger volumes. The widespread adoption of open industry standards such as the Secure User Plane for Location (SUPL) specifications may make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce products that compete with our software products. Because our Commercial Segment is part of an emerging market, we cannot identify or predict which new competitors may enter the mobile location services industry in the future. 15 With time and capital, it would be possible for competitors to replicate any of our products and service offerings or develop alternative products. Additionally, the wireless communications industry continues to experience significant consolidation which may make it more difficult for smaller companies, like us, us to compete. Our competitors include application developers, telecommunications equipment vendors, location determination technology vendors and information technology consultants, and may include traditional Internet portals and Internet infrastructure software companies. We expect that we will compete primarily on the basis of price, time to market, functionality, quality and breadth of product and service offerings. These competitors could include wireless network carriers, mobile and/or wireless software companies, wireless data services providers and wireless systems integrators and database vendors. As discussed above, many of our potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. Furthermore, competitors may develop a different approach to marketing the services we provide in which subscribers may not be required to pay for the information provided by our services. Competition could reduce our market share or force us to lower prices to unprofitable levels. While we characterize a significant portion of our revenue as being “recurring” there is no guarantee that we will actually achieve this revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from long-term customer contracts that pay certain fees on a month-to-month basis. While we currently believe that these revenue streams will continue, renegotiation of the contract terms, early termination or non-renewal of material contracts could cause our recurring revenues to be lower than expected and any growth depends on maintaining relationships with these important customers and on developing other customers and distribution channels. We cannot guarantee that our estimated contract backlog will result in actual revenue. As of December 31, 2007, our estimated contract backlog totaled approximately $232.2 million, of which approximately $130.6 million was funded. There can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in backlog will be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual receipt and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The actual receipt of revenue on contracts included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change, the program could be canceled, a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early, or an option that we had assumed would be exercised not being exercised. Further, while many of our federal government contracts require performance over a period of years, Congress often appropriates funds for these contracts for only one year at a time. Consequently, our contracts typically are only partially funded at any point during their term, and all or some of the work intended to be performed under the contracts will remain unfunded pending subsequent Congressional appropriations and the obligation of additional funds to the contract by the procuring agency. Our estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts. However, there can be no assurances that all, or any, of such estimated contract value will be recognized as revenue. The loss of key personnel or any inability to attract and retain additional personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, particularly in sales and marketing and research and development. If we are unable to do so, our business could be harmed. Our future success also depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales, engineering and technical staff. The loss of the services of our executive officers and other key personnel could harm our operations. We maintain key person life insurance on certain of our executive officers. We would be harmed if one or more of our officers or key employees decided to join a competitor or if we failed to attract qualified personnel. Our ability to attract qualified personnel may be adversely affected by a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. In the event of a decline in the price of our Class A common stock, the retention value of stock options will decline and our employees may choose not to remain with us, which could harm our business. 16 If our subcontractors fail to perform their contractual obligations, our performance and reputation as a prime contractor and our ability to obtain future business could suffer. As a prime contractor, we often rely significantly upon other companies as subcontractors to perform work we are obligated to perform for our clients. As we secure more work under our contract vehicles such as the WWSS agreement, we expect to require an increasing level of support from subcontractors that provide complementary and supplementary products and services to our offerings. Depending on labor market conditions, we may not be able to identify, hire and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees to perform the task orders we expect to win. In such cases, we will need to rely on subcontracts with unrelated companies. Moreover, even in favorable labor market conditions, we anticipate entering into more subcontracts in the future as we expand our work under our contract vehicles. We are responsible for the work performed by our subcontractors, even though in some cases we have limited involvement in that work. If one or more of our subcontractors fail to satisfactorily perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis or violate federal government contracting policies, laws or regulations, our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor or meet our clients’ expectations may be compromised. In extreme cases, performance or other deficiencies on the part of our subcontractors could result in a client terminating our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability, including liability for the agency’s costs of re-procurement, could damage our reputation and could hurt our ability to compete for future contracts. Risks Related to Acquisitions Our past and future acquisitions of companies or technologies could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or adversely affect operating results or the market price of our Class A common stock. We have in the past acquired a number of businesses and technologies, and we may in the future acquire or make investments in other companies, services and technologies. Any acquisitions, strategic alliances or investments we may pursue in the future will have a continuing, significant impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of the companies or assets that we acquire or invest in may be less than the amount we paid if there is a decline of their position in the respective markets they serve or a decline in general of the markets they serve. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. To successfully complete an acquisition, we must: • properly evaluate the technology; • accurately forecast the financial impact of the transaction, including accounting charges and transaction expenses; • integrate and retain personnel; • retain and cross-sell to acquired customers; • combine potentially different corporate cultures; and • effectively integrate products and services, and research and development, sales and marketing and support operations. If we fail to do any of these, we may suffer losses, our management may be distracted from day-to-day operations and the market price of our Class A common stock may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we consummate future acquisitions using our equity securities or convertible debt, existing stockholders may be diluted which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, the companies and business units we have acquired or invested in or may acquire or invest in are subject to each of the business risks we describe in this section, and if they incur any of these risks the businesses may not be as valuable as the amount we paid. Further, we cannot guarantee that we will realize the benefits or strategic objectives we are seeking to obtain by acquiring or investing in these companies. 17 Industry Risks Because the wireless data industry is a rapidly evolving market, our product and service offerings could become obsolete unless we respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological changes. The successful execution of our business strategy is contingent upon wireless network operators launching and maintaining mobile location services, our ability to create new network software products and adapt our existing network software products to rapidly changing technologies, industry standards and customer needs. As a result of the complexities inherent in our product offerings, new technologies may require long development and testing periods. Additionally, new products may not achieve market acceptance or our competitors could develop alternative technologies that gain broader market acceptance than our products. If we are unable to develop and introduce technologically advanced products that respond to evolving industry standards and customer needs, or if we are unable to complete the development and introduction of these products on a timely and cost effective basis, our business will suffer. New laws and regulations that impact our industry could increase costs or reduce opportunities to earn revenue. The wireless carriers that use our product and service offerings are subject to regulation by domestic, and in some cases, foreign, governmental and other agencies. Regulations that affect them could increase our costs or reduce our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, there are an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to wireless telephones and the Internet under consideration in the United States and elsewhere. The applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, taxation, obscenity, libel, employment and personal privacy is uncertain and developing. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, modifications to our business plans or operations to comply with changing regulations or certain actions taken by regulatory authorities might increase our costs of providing our product and service offerings and materially adversely affect our financial condition. Concerns about personal privacy and commercial solicitation may limit the growth of mobile location services and reduce demand for our products and services. In order for mobile location products and services to function properly, wireless carriers must locate their subscribers and store information on each subscriber’s location. Although data regarding the location of the wireless user resides only on the wireless carrier’s systems, users may not feel comfortable with the idea that the wireless carrier knows and can track their location. Carriers will need to obtain subscribers’ permission to gather and use the subscribers’ personal information, or they may not be able to provide customized mobile location services which those subscribers might otherwise desire. If subscribers view mobile location services as an annoyance or a threat to their privacy, that could reduce demand for our products and services and have an adverse effect on prospective sales. Because many providers are not in compliance with current regulatory mandates and because our industry is undergoing rapid technological and regulatory change, our future performance is uncertain. The Federal Communication Commission, or FCC, has mandated that certain location information be provided to operators when they receive an E9-1-1 call. Phase I of the FCC’s 9-1-1 mandate required providers to be able to locate wireless E9-1-1 callers within their originating cell sector site and report their callback number by April 1998. Phase II of the FCC mandate required providers to be able to pinpoint the location of all E9-1-1 callers within 125 meters in 67% of all cases by October 1, 2001. Although both the Phase I and Phase II deadlines have passed, many providers are not currently in compliance with either phase of the FCC’s mandate. Even so, we believe that many public safety jurisdictions are continuing to deploy Phase I technology and when available, we believe they will deploy Phase II technology. 18 Carriers’ obligations to provide Phase I and Phase II services are subject to request by public safety organizations. Due to complex regulatory, funding and political issues many public safety organizations have not yet requested this service. As a result, wireless carriers and wireless users may never exhibit sufficient demand for our mobile location services. Technical failures, time delays or the significant costs associated with developing or installing improved location technology could slow down or stop the deployment of our mobile location products. If deployment of improved location technology is delayed, stopped or never occurs, market acceptance of our products and services may be adversely affected. In addition, we will rely on third-party providers to manufacture and deploy devices that determine the precise geographic location of wireless users to comply with Phase II of the FCC mandate. The extent and timing of the deployment of our products and services is dependent both on public safety requests for such service and wireless carrier’s ability to certify the accuracy of and deploy the precise location technology. Because we will rely on third-party location technology instead of developing the technology ourselves, we have little or no influence over its improvement. If the technology never becomes precise enough to satisfy wireless users’ needs or the FCC’s requirements, we may not be able to increase or sustain demand for our products and services, if at all. Our E9-1-1 business is dependent on state and local governments and the regulatory environment for Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services is developing. Under the FCC’s mandate, wireless carriers are required to provide E9-1-1 services only if state and local governments request the service. As part of a state or local government’s decision to request E9-1-1, they have the authority to develop cost recovery mechanisms. However, cost recovery is no longer a condition to wireless carriers’ obligation to deploy the service. If state and local governments do not widely request that E9-1-1 services be provided or we become subject to significant pressures from wireless carriers with respect to pricing of E9-1-1 services, our E9-1-1 business would be significantly harmed and future growth of our business would be significantly reduced. The FCC has determined that VoIP services are not subject to the same regulatory scheme as traditional wireline and wireless telephone services. If the regulatory environment for VoIP services evolves in a manner other than the way we anticipate, our E9-1-1 business would be significantly harmed and future growth of our business would be significantly reduced. For example, many states provide statutory and regulatory immunity from liability for wireless and wireline E9-1-1 service providers but provide no express immunities for VoIP E9-1-1 service providers. Additionally, the regulatory scheme for wireless and wireline service providers require those carriers to allow service providers such as us to have access to certain databases that make the delivery of an E9-1-1 call possible. No such requirements exist for VoIP service providers so carriers could prevent us from continuing to provide VoIP E9-1-1 service by denying us access to the required databases. Because the industries which we serve are currently in a cycle of consolidation, the number of customers may be reduced which could result in a loss of revenue for our business. The telecommunications industry generally is currently undergoing a consolidation phase. Many of our customers, specifically wireless carrier customers of our Commercial Segment, have or may become the target of acquisitions. If the number of our customers is significantly reduced as a result of this consolidation trend, or if the resulting companies do not utilize our product offerings, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Technology Risks Because our software may contain defects or errors, our sales could decrease if these defects or errors adversely affect our reputation or delays shipments of our software. The software products that we develop are complex and must meet the stringent technical requirements of our customers. We must quickly develop new products and product enhancements to keep pace with the rapidly changing software and telecommunications markets in which we operate. Software as complex as ours is likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. 19 Our software may not be error or defect free after delivery to customers, which could damage our reputation, cause revenue losses, result in the rejection of our software or services, divert development resources and increase service and warranty costs, each of which could have a serious harmful effect on us. If we are unable to integrate our products with wireless service providers’ systems we may lose sales to competitors. Our products operate with wireless carriers’ systems, various wireless devices and, in the case of our E9-1-1 offering, with mobile telephone switches and VoIP service provider systems. If we are unable to continue to design our software to operate with these systems and devices, we may lose sales to competitors. Mobile telephone switches and wireless devices can be manufactured according to many different standards and may have different variations within each standard. Combining our products with each type of switch, device or VoIP system requires a specialized interface and extensive testing. If, as a result of technology enhancements or upgrades to carrier and VoIP provider systems, our products can no longer operate with such systems, we may no longer be able to sell our products. Further, even if we successfully redesign our products to operate with these systems, we may not gain market acceptance before our competitors. Because our systems may be vulnerable to systems failures and security risks, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of these problems. We provide for the delivery of information and content to and from wireless devices in a prompt and timely manner. Any systems failure that causes a disruption in our ability to facilitate the transmission of information to these wireless devices could result in delays in end users receiving this information and cause us to lose customers. Our systems could experience such failures as a result of unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses, hardware or software failures, power or telecommunications failures and other accidental or intentional actions which could disrupt our systems. We may incur significant costs to prevent such systems disruptions. Increasingly our products will be used to create or transmit secure information and data to and from wireless devices. For example, our software can be used to create private address lists and to provide the precise location of an individual. To protect private information like this from security breaches, we may incur significant costs. If a third party were able to misappropriate our proprietary information or disrupt our operations, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could materially adversely impact our business. Further, if an individual is unable to use our service to receive the precise location in a health or life-and-death situation, or if our service provides the wrong information, we could be subject to claims, litigation or other potential liabilities that could materially adversely impact our business. The wireless data services provided by our Commercial Segment are dependent on real-time, continuous feeds from map and traffic data vendors and others. The ability of our subscribers to receive critical location and business information requires timely and uninterrupted connections with our wireless network carriers. Any disruption from our satellite feeds or backup landline feeds could result in delays in our subscribers’ ability to receive information. We cannot be sure that our systems will operate appropriately if we experience a hardware or software failure, intentional disruptions of service by third parties, an act of God or an act of war. A failure in our systems could cause delays in transmitting data, and as a result we may lose customers or face litigation that could involve material costs and distract management from operating our business. If mobile equipment manufacturers do not overcome capacity, technology and equipment limitations, we may not be able to sell our products and services. The wireless technology currently in use by most wireless carriers has limited bandwidth, which restricts network capacity to deliver bandwidth-intensive applications like data services to a large number of users. Because of capacity limitations, wireless users may not be able to connect to their network when they wish to, and the connection is likely to be slow, especially when receiving data transmissions. Data services also may be more expensive than users are willing to pay. To overcome these obstacles, wireless equipment manufacturers will need to develop new technology, standards, equipment and devices that are capable of providing higher bandwidth services at lower cost. We cannot be sure that manufacturers will be able to develop technology and equipment that reliably delivers large quantities of data at a reasonable price. If more capacity is not added, a 20 sufficient market for our products and services is not likely to develop or be sustained and sales of our products and services would decline and our business would suffer. Because the market for most mobile content delivery and mobile location products is new, our future success is uncertain. The market for mobile content delivery and mobile location products and services is new and its potential is uncertain. In order to be successful, we need wireless network operators to launch and maintain mobile location services utilizing our products, and need corporate enterprises and individuals to purchase and use our mobile content delivery and mobile location products and services. We cannot be sure that wireless carriers or enterprises will accept our products or that a sufficient number of wireless users will ultimately utilize our products. If wireless handsets pose health and safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations and demand for our products and services may decrease. Media reports have suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless handsets, which would decrease demand for our services. In recent years, the FCC and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and other medical devices. There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while driving. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to market and sell our products and services. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or are sued by third parties for infringing upon intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial costs. Our success and competitive position depends in large part upon our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret laws, confidentiality provisions and various other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, but these legal means provide only limited protection. Although a number of patents have been issued to us and we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, we cannot assure you that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged by another party. Additionally, with respect to any patent applications which we have filed, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of these applications. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it, and we may be exposed to expensive litigation or risk jeopardizing our competitive position. Similarly, third parties could claim that our future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Claims like these could require us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or cause us to lose the right to use critical technology. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights is also subject to the terms of any future government contracts. We cannot assure you that the federal government will not demand greater intellectual property rights or restrict our ability to disseminate intellectual property. We are also a member of standards-setting organizations and have agreed to license some of our intellectual property to other members on fair and reasonable terms to the extent that the license is required to develop non-infringing products. Pursuing infringers of our Patents and other intellectual property rights can be costly. Pursuing infringers of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to pursue infringers could result in our competitors utilizing our technology and offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the 21 laws of the United States. Protecting our know how is difficult especially after our employees or those of our third party contract service providers end their employment or engagement. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent the misappropriation of our technology or prevent others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The costs and diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could be prevented from selling our products, or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we, our products, operations or any products or technology we obtain from other parties are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology and products. From time to time we receive letters from third parties that allege we are infringing their intellectual property and asking us to license such intellectual property. We review the merits of each such letter, none of which has resulted in litigation as of the date of this report. However, any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties, which may be costly or impractical. This also may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our products or services and may result in a material loss of revenue. The security measures we have implemented to secure information we collect and store may be breached, which could cause us to breach agreements with our partners and expose us to potential investigation and penalties by authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. We take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access despite our efforts. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed under existing and proposed laws. We also may be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Common Stock A majority of our Class A common stock is beneficially owned by a small number of holders, and those holders could thereby transfer control of us to a third party without anyone else’s approval or prevent a third party from acquiring us. We have two classes of common stock: Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of Class B common stock, except that holders of Class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of Class B common stock have three votes per share. As of January 31, 2008, Maurice B. Tosé, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned 7,301,334 shares of our Class B common stock and 1,529,601 shares of our Class A common stock. Therefore, in the aggregate, Mr. Tosé beneficially owned shares representing approximately 41.21% of our total voting power, assuming no conversion or exercise of issued and outstanding convertible or exchangeable securities held by our other shareholders. Accordingly, on this basis, Mr. Tosé controls us through 22 his ability to determine the outcome of elections of directors, amend our charter and by-laws and take other actions requiring stockholder action, including mergers, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions. Mr. Tosé could, without seeking anyone else’s approval, transfer voting control of us to a third party. Such a transfer could have a material adverse effect on our stock price, and our business, operating results and financial condition. Mr. Tosé is also able to prevent a change of control regardless of whether holders of Class A common stock might benefit financially from such a transaction. Our governing corporate documents contain certain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent a change of control that may be favorable to shareholders. We are a Maryland corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Maryland law and provisions contained in our charter and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. These provisions include the following: • authorization of the board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock; • prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • our classified board of directors; • limitation of the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • prohibition on stockholders acting without a meeting other than through unanimous written consent; • supermajority voting requirement on various charter and by-law provisions; • establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, depriving shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for Class A common stock. These provisions could therefore materially adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Because this report contains forward-looking statements, it may not prove to be accurate. This report, including the documents we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements and information relating to our company. These statements are based upon TCS’ current expectations and assumptions that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that would cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. We generally identify forward-looking statements using words like “believe,” “intend,” “expect,” “may,” “should,” “plan,” “project,” “contemplate,” “anticipate,” or other similar statements. We base these statements on our beliefs as well as assumptions we made using information currently available to us. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances. Statements in this report that are forward-looking include, but are not limited to, the following statements that (i) we are well positioned to address the evolving integration needs of our clients through our expertise in messaging and location determination;, (ii) we are developing relationships with communication infrastructure providers and we intend to expand our domestic and international carrier base, (iii) we plan to continue to develop and sell software and engineered systems which we will deliver through deployment in customer networks or through hosted and subscription business models and we believe that our software is positioned for early adoption by carriers, (iv) wireless growth is expected to continue to increase in all regions around the world for the foreseeable future, (v) both the number of users and messages per individual are projected to increase significantly, 23 (vi) we will continue to develop network software for wireless carriers that operate on all major types of networks; (vii) we will continue to leverage our knowledge of complex call control technology to unlock valuable information and expand the range of capabilities that the technology can accomplish for our customers, (viii) we will continue to invest in our underlying technology and to capitalize on our expertise to meet the growing demand for sophisticated wireless applications, (ix) we intend to continue to selectively pursue acquisitions of companies and technologies in order to increase the scale and scope of our operations, market presence, products, services and customer base, (x) the Broadband Global Area Network upgrade of the Inmarsat satellite constellation expands our opportunity for SwiftLink sales volume; (xi) we believe our expertise in wireless E9-1-1, location and messaging services, and secure satellite communications can be leveraged into the Federal agencies; (xii) we are continuing to enhance our deployable communication systems product line to take advantage of the evolving environment of satellite communications; (xiii) we believe that our company enjoys a competitive advantage because of its secure teleport and integration capabilities along with deployable systems as a bundled offering; (xiv) federal agencies, as well as state and local governments, are increasingly contracting with specialist teams for functions such as network management, and for long-term projects such as software development and systems integration, (xv) we expect to realize $84.6 million of backlog within the next twelve months; (xvi) the bases on which we expect to continue to compete; (xvii) we believe we have sufficient capital resources to meet our anticipated cash operating expenses, working capital and capital expenditure and debt services needs for the next twelve months, (xviii) that we believe our capitalized research and development expense will be recoverable from future gross profits generated by the related products, (xix) we believe our intellectual property assets are valuable and may realized revenue from patent infringement claims; (xx) the WWSS contract is expected to contribute to significant sales growth, (xxi) expectations about the amount of future non-cash stock compensation, and (xxii) statements about financial covenants related to our loan agreements. This list should not be considered exhaustive. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 