ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Consolidated Financial Statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this report, as well as the preceding “Business” section of this report, should be read and evaluated together with the issues, uncertainties and risk factors relating to our business described below. While we have been and continue to be confident in our business and business prospects, we believe it is very important that anyone who reads this report consider these issues, uncertainties and risk factors, which include business risks relevant both to our industry and to us in particular. To the best of our knowledge and belief, we have presented, as required by applicable rules, all material risks in this section. This report also contains statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this report, the words “anticipate(s),” “anticipated,” “anticipation,” “assume(s),” “assumption(s),” “become(s),” “belief(s),” “believe(s),” “believed,” “could,” “designed,” “estimate,” “estimates,” “estimated,” “expect(s),” “expected,” “expectation(s),” “going forward,” “future,” “hopeful,” “hope(s),” “intend(s),” “intended,” “look forward,” “may,” “might,” “opportunity,” “opportunities,” “outlook(s),” “pending,” “plan(s),” “planned,” “potential,” “scheduled,” “shall,” “should,” “think(s),” “to be,” “upcoming,” “well-positioned,” “will,” “wish,” “would,” and similar expressions, if and to the extent used, are intended to identify the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and beliefs concerning future events that are subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described below and elsewhere in this report. Actual results may differ materially from the results suggested in this report. Factors that may cause or contribute to such differences, and our business risks and uncertainties generally, include, but are not limited to, the items described below, as well as those described in other sections of this report, our other public filings and our press releases, conference calls and other public presentations. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Global Economic Conditions May Impact Our Stock Price In recent years, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant price fluctuations. The market prices of securities of companies in the financial services sector were particularly volatile at times and the market price of our common stock decreased significantly during that period. Reduced confidence in the economy in general, or in the stability of the financial services sector, may further negatively impact the market price of our common stock. There Are Several Factors That May Cause Fluctuations In Our Quarterly Operating Results, Which Could Result In Significant Volatility In Our Stock Price Quarterly revenues and operating results of TradeStation Group have fluctuated significantly in the past, and our quarterly revenues and operating results are likely to fluctuate in the future. Causes of such significant fluctuations may include, but are not limited to: • negative or positive changes in factors that affect the securities and futures markets, including trade volume, market volatility, market direction or trends, unemployment, the level of confidence and trust in the markets, and seasonality, which, in turn, affect active trading and our brokerage revenues; • changes in treasury note and/or treasury bill rates of interest (or the federal funds and discount rates that typically influence those rates of interest) – a significant portion of our revenues has historically been derived from interest income, and very low short-term rates have had and are expected to continue to have a material negative impact on the net interest income component of our brokerage revenues (which, since it has no corresponding cost component other than the interest, if any, we offer to our customers and income taxes, also has a material negative impact on our net income and earnings per share); • the company’s ability (or lack thereof), to achieve significant, or any, net increases in daily average revenue trades (DARTs), brokerage accounts and brokerage commissions and fees sequentially or year over year (for example, TradeStation’s DARTs and its brokerage commissions and fees have both decreased sequentially and year over year starting in the 2009 third quarter, and net account growth substantially slowed beginning in the 2009 third quarter, and these and other items may decrease sequentially or year over year in subsequent periods); • mark-to-market gains or losses on marketable securities that impact the company’s financial results even though they do not affect the company’s operations (for example, mark-to-market gains on marketable securities increased earnings per share by five cents in the 2010 second quarter and mark-to-market losses decreased earnings per share by one cent in the 2010 third quarter); • technical difficulties, outages, errors and/or failures in our electronic and software products, services and systems relating to market data, order execution and trade processing and reporting, and other software or system errors and failures, any of which could result in a business or legal requirement to issue large credit amounts to customers, loss of accounts, reduced trading activity, loss of or diminished reputation and recognition in the industry, increased monetary costs and diversion of internal resources, regulatory inquiries, fines and sanctions, and other material adverse consequences (also, although we maintain a redundant back-up system to our order execution systems, that redundancy is not seamless, which could materially intensify the negative consequences described above); 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • market or competitive pressure to lower commissions and fees charged to customers, or to reduce or eliminate monthly platform fees paid by brokerage customers, or to reduce interest rates charged to customers for margin loans or to increase the interest rates used to credit customers’ account cash balances; • the quality and success of, and potential continuous changes in, sales or marketing strategies (which continue to evolve) and the timing and success of new product, service or marketing initiatives, such as our new 2011 marketing campaign; • the effect of changes in product mix (how much of customer trading volume is stocks versus equity options versus futures versus forex, etc.), which can affect our revenues, net income and margins, even if overall trading volume remains the same; • unanticipated infrastructure, capital or other large expenses, and unforeseen or unexpected liabilities and claims, we may face as we seek to grow our U.S. active trader market share in equities, futures and forex business, and our institutional and non-U.S. trader market businesses, including potential acquisition, joint venture or business combination risks, costs and expenses (such as start-up costs and expenses, professional fees and, in the case of an acquisition or “new division”, amortization expense) incurred in the event we develop, acquire, joint venture with or combine with other businesses; • pending, potential or unforeseen third-party claims or regulatory matters that turn out to be significantly more costly, in terms of both judgment or settlement amounts and legal expenses, or fines, than we currently estimate or expect; • variations from our expectations with respect to hiring and retention of personnel, sales and marketing expenditures, technology development costs, compliance costs, or other expense items; • the ability to collect unsecured accounts receivable that may arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business or otherwise; and/or • if revenues are lower than expected, the negative effects of such lower revenues to our bottom line, including our inability to make in a timely fashion commensurate expense reductions (as a large amount of our expenses are fixed expenses, i.e., do not vary with revenues in the short term). Conditions In The Securities And Financial Markets May Affect Our Rates Of Customer Acquisition, Retention And Trading Activity Our products and services are, and will continue to be, designed for customers who trade actively in the securities and financial markets. To the extent that interest in active trading, or trading generally, decreases due to low trading volumes, lack of volatility, significant downward movement in the securities or financial markets, or negative market sentiment, or future tax law changes, recessions, high unemployment, investor confidence, depressions, wars, terrorism (including “cyberterrorism”), or otherwise, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements adversely affected. These risks have heightened considerably as a result of the recent crises in our markets and economy, including high unemployment. Also, unfavorable market conditions have, historically, seemed to severely negatively impact the share price of publicly-held online brokerage firms, and also usually result in more losses for our customers, which could result in increases in quantity and size of errors or omissions or other claims that may be made against us by customers. We do not currently carry any errors or omissions insurance that might cover, in part, some of those potential claims. See “The Nature Of Our Business Results In Potential Liability To Customers” below. Our Revenue And Net Income Growth Prospects In 2011 Are Dependent Upon the Success Of A Few New and Recent Growth Initiatives At the time of filing this report, we expect to launch later in 2011 a new forex brokerage offering that is very different from the one we previously offered, as well as a new marketing campaign which sends a different message from the one we have sent historically. We also launched just a few months ago our new securities lending business and our offering to customers to trade Eurex Group markets. The company’s planned revenue and net income growth in 2011 is dependent largely on these new and recent initiatives. The company may not meet its revenue growth or profit expectations, or derive any significant increased revenues or profits, from the new forex offering, securities lending, Eurex trading, or the new marketing campaign as a result of unexpected mistakes, delays and/or costs, less-than-anticipated customer appeal or market interest, and/or other factors. Our Industry Is Intensely Competitive, Which Makes It Difficult To Attract And Retain Customers The markets for online brokerage services, trading software tools, and real-time market data services are intensely competitive and continue to rapidly evolve. There has, historically, been substantial consolidation of those three products and services in the industry, as well as, more recently, consolidation of the types of financial instruments (equities, equity and index options, futures and forex) offered by firms. There has also been consolidation of online brokerage firms generally, as well as intense price and quality competition. We believe that competition from large online and other large brokerage firms and smaller brokerage firms focused on active traders, as well as consolidation, will continue. In recent years, some of our competitors have been adding or emphasizing rules-based or strategy trading products and features to focus more on the active trader market. Competition may be further intensified by the size of the active trader market, which is generally thought to be comprised of about 5% of all online brokerage accounts. We believe our ability to compete will depend upon many factors both within and outside our control. Factors outside of our control include: price pressure (on transactional commissions, monthly platform fees and interest rates offered to customers for both credit balances and account borrowings); the timing and market acceptance of new products and services and enhancements developed by our competitors (including strategy back-testing and automation capabilities); market conditions, such as recession and unemployment; the size of the active trader market today and in the future; data availability and cost; and exchange and third-party execution and clearing costs. Factors over which we have more control, but which are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties with respect to our ability to effectively compete, include: timing and market acceptance of new products and services and enhancements we develop; our ability to meet changing market demands for a unified, integrated trading platform that offers customers the ability to trade and manage portfolios containing multiple asset classes; our ability to design, improve and support materially error-free and sufficiently robust Internet-based systems; ease-of-use of our products and services; reliability of our products and services; financial reliability and strength; and 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements pricing decisions and other sales and marketing decisions and efforts. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins, slower or negative net account growth (net account growth has slowed beginning mid-2009), and failure to build, or loss of, market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Attrition Of Customer Accounts And Failure To Maintain Or Increase The Rate Of Growth Of Gross New Account Additions Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Operating Results We consider an account to be inactive (and exclude it when counting total brokerage accounts) when it has less than a $200 balance and has had no activity for more than 180 consecutive days. Our current indications are that 2011 customer account attrition levels will be the same or greater than 2010 levels. Based on the combination of account attrition and gross accounts added, our net account growth began to slow significantly beginning in the 2009 third quarter and slowed even more significantly throughout 2010. While there is no way to know for certain the specific reasons for these results and indications concerning net account growth (which, again, is determined by the number, if any, that gross new account additions in a quarter exceed our customer account attrition in that quarter), we believe that the principal contributing factors are recent and current market and economic conditions, and there may be other reasons or factors, such as the effectiveness or strength of our sales and marketing efforts and customer support and retention methods, or the effectiveness or strength of our competitors. Our failure or inability to address the underlying issues or causes relating to increased attrition and a decrease in net account growth will likely result in decreased net revenues and net income. Operation In A Highly-Regulated Industry And Compliance Failures May Result In Severe Penalties And Other Harmful Governmental Or SRO Actions Against Us, Or May Place Limitations On Our Business The securities and futures industries are subject to extensive regulation covering all aspects of those businesses. Regulation of forex dealer and brokerage services is increasing as well, by the CFTC and NFA and FINRA. The various governmental authorities and industry SROs that supervise and regulate our brokerage firms have broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, suspend, enjoin, expel or issue cease-and-desist orders to our brokerage firms or any of their officers or employees who violate applicable laws, rules or regulations. There have been, and may soon be, several specific rules enacted that affect or could affect our business. For example, rules relating specifically to active traders have been enacted and more may be enacted which severely limit the operations and potential success of our business model. Recently, several states, including Florida (where we are headquartered), have enacted and/or have been considering new or modified legislation that could increase the power of state regulatory authorities to sanction or suspend a brokerage firm that fails to comply with regulatory requirements or experiences adverse results in customer arbitrations. Additionally, any future action that a government agency or SRO might take to tax securities transactions (such as the proposed Congressional bill to impose a transaction tax on the purchase and sale of securities), impose stricter borrowing limits on investors (such as the recently enacted CFTC rule limiting the leverage available to retail investors in the forex market), restrict short sales (such as the temporary ban in 2008 on short selling of financial sector securities and new short sale rules that were adopted by the SEC in February 2010) or in any other way limit or add to the costs associated with trading in one or more types of securities, might negatively impact the number of trades in which our clients engage or the costs of, or how we conduct, our business and, consequently, negatively impact our net revenues and net income. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our brokerages firms’ maintenance of compliance and reporting systems, as well as their ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other operations personnel and enter into suitable contractual relationships with appropriate vendors, lenders and counterparties. New or modified regulatory rules or requirements, or increased or more stringent enforcement and higher fines or greater sanctions concerning the way our brokerage firms operate their businesses (including increased regulatory investigations into the accounts of our clients as a result of the recent economic crisis and certain recent enforcement actions and investigations) could materially increase our cash requirements to conduct our business, require substantial increases in compliance, legal and/or brokerage operations costs (or result in fines, penalties or sanctions), limit or reduce our access to, or use of, a significant proportion of our now-available cash, or otherwise limit our ability to operate our business. Systems Failures May Result In Our Inability To Deliver Accurately, On Time, Or At All, Important And Time-Sensitive Services To Our Customers The online electronic trading platform we provide to our customers is based upon the integration of our sophisticated front-end software technology with our equally-sophisticated, Internet-based server farm technology. Our server farm technology is the foundation upon which online trading customers receive real-time market data and place buy and sell orders. However, in order for this technology to provide a live, effective, real-time trading platform, it requires integration with real-time market data, which are currently provided directly by the exchanges, other electronic market centers, or by systems of independent third-party market data vendors or other sources (who obtain the data directly from the exchanges or, for forex, from inter-bank markets), the electronic order book systems of electronic communication networks (ECNs), other liquidity providers and electronic systems offered by the exchanges, the clearing and back-office systems we license from SunGard for self-clearance and of the clearance agents we use for trades that we do not self-clear. Accordingly, our ability to offer a platform that enables the development, testing and automation of trading strategies and the placement, execution, clearance and settlement of buy and sell orders depends heavily on the effectiveness, integrity, reliability and consistent performance of all of these systems and technologies. In particular, the stress that is placed on these systems during peak trading times, or by increased trade volume, or highly volatile markets, or upon increases by the exchanges or other market centers of the volume or capacity of data sent to our systems, could cause one or more of these systems to operate too slowly or fail. Outages and other system failures may also be caused by natural disasters and other events and circumstances beyond our control. Also, we do not maintain a seamless, redundant back-up system to our order execution systems, which could materially intensify the negative consequences of any such difficulties, outages, errors or failures. Any major system failure or outage (or series of frequent failures or outages), regardless of the cause, could result in the issuance of large credit amounts to customers, loss of accounts, reduced trading activity, loss of or diminished reputation and recognition in the industry, increased monetary costs and diversion of internal resources, regulatory inquiries, fines and sanctions, and other material adverse consequences. We have had technical difficulties, outages, errors or failures in our electronic and software products, services and systems, and human or manual errors, relating to our systems. Our failure or inability to address the underlying issues or causes relating to such problems, to adequately correct them and ensure they do not repeat (particularly as the volume of market data received from the exchanges, or the volume of our client base’s trading, requires increased, improved or different hardware and/or software capacity, technology or company domain know-how), or otherwise to ensure the stability, capacity, speed and accuracy of the trading platform’s market data and order placement services, could materially negatively affect our reputation in the online trader market, causing increased attrition and a decrease in new accounts, and decreased net revenues and net income. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Additionally, as a general matter not applicable only to our company, the integrity of these types of systems may be attacked by persons sometimes referred to as “hackers” who intentionally introduce viruses or other defects to cause damage, inaccuracies or complete failure. Also, “cyberterrorism,” should it occur, may significantly affect people’s willingness to use Internet-based services, particularly ones that involve their personal or company’s assets. See “Our Systems And Our Customers’ Accounts May From Time To Time Be Vulnerable To Security Risks That Could Disrupt Operations, Harm Our Reputation And Expose Us To Potential Liability” below. During a system outage or failure, our brokerage may be able to take orders by telephone; however, only associates with appropriate licenses, knowledge and experience can accept telephone orders and, given the relatively small size of our trade desk in relation to the number of customers we have and trades we process, an adequate number of associates likely would not be available to take customer calls in the event of a system outage or failure. System delays, errors, outages and failures, depending upon how serious and how often they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See “The Nature Of Our Business Results In Potential Liability To Customers” below. Our TradeStation Prime Services Division May Be Less Profitable, Unprofitable, Or More Costly Than Expected We launched in 2010 our “prime services” division in order to attempt to fill what we believe is the growing need of start-up to mid-sized hedge funds, registered investment advisers, professional traders and asset managers for quality prime brokerage services. There can be no assurance that our prime services offering, particularly securities lending, will appeal to potential prime services clients to the extent that we believe it will. Our failure to make timely and quality enhancements to our trading platform and/or our size and balance sheet being unacceptably small to mid-size and larger funds or firms may adversely impact our ability to attract prime services clients, resulting in future revenues falling short of current expectations. In addition, we have limited experience in offering prime brokerage services and the operating results of the prime services division may be less favorable than we expect as a result of unanticipated costs and expenses that are not offset by expected revenues as and when planned (or at all), mistakes, the general unpredictability of operating results for a new business division, a regulatory or self-regulatory organization or agency decision to limit or restrict the breadth of the services we plan to offer, or other factors. We May Need Cash In The Foreseeable Future While we anticipate having sufficient cash to meet our needs over the next 12 months, our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including: the rate of customer acceptance of our products and services, including the number of new brokerage accounts acquired and the number and volume of trades made by our brokerage customers; the use of cash in acquisitions or other strategic ventures should any occur; significant, increased infrastructure and operating costs as our business grows (through acquisition, joint venture or otherwise); large cash or security deposit requirements (which were approximately $37.5 million as of March 1, 2011, and which are expected to increase as our business grows); increased net capital or excess net capital requirements and unanticipated reserve and settlement requirements (TradeStation Forex is required to have a minimum capitalization of $20 million, which is currently all in cash and treasury bills); and new or modified regulatory requirements. Funds, if and when needed, may be raised through debt financing and/or the 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements issuance of equity securities, there being no assurance that any such type of financing on terms satisfactory to us will be available or otherwise occur. Debt financing must be repaid regardless of whether we generate revenues, net income or cash flows from our operations and may be secured by substantially all of our assets. Any equity financing or debt financing which requires issuance of equity securities or warrants to the lender would reduce the percentage ownership of the shareholders of the company. Shareholders also may, if issuance of equities occurs, experience additional dilution in net book value per share, or the issued equities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. Dependence Upon Outside Data Sources And Clearing Relationships Creates Risks Outside Of Our Control Which May Affect Our Ability To Provide, And Our Cost To Provide, Market Data And Clearing And Account Services Our business is currently dependent upon our ability to maintain contracts with private market and news data vendors and clearing and prime brokerage firms in order to provide certain market data and news, and clearing and account services, respectively, to our customers. We currently obtain equities, options and futures market data directly from all major U.S., and certain major European, exchanges and market centers, but obtain other market data (such as forex data, fundamental data and news pursuant to non-exclusive licenses) from private data vendors who in turn obtain the data from exchanges or other sources. Clearing and back-office account services for our brokerage customers are obtained from established clearing agents and, with respect to our self-clearing operations, our software system licensing agreement with SunGard. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew or maintain contracts or acceptable clearing cost or vendor fee rates. Changes (or, in some cases, the failure or inability to make changes) in our relationships with one or more of these third parties, involuntary termination of one or more of those relationships, or business interruptions, slowdowns or failures affecting one or more of these third parties (whether caused by adverse economic conditions which cause business failure of the vendor, or other events) could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Decreases In Short-term Interest Rates Or In Our Customer Account Balances Reduce Our Interest Income, Which Has Historically Been A Significant Component Of Our Brokerage Revenues, Net Revenues and Net Income We have historically derived a significant portion of our brokerage revenues from interest income on customers’ credit balances and account borrowings (overnight margin balances). Very low treasury bill and treasury note rates of interest in 2010 have had, and are expected to continue to have, a negative impact on our interest income and, therefore, our brokerage revenues, net revenues and net income. Our Business Outlook for 2011 assumes that treasury bill and treasury note yields we receive will remain constant at 2010 levels throughout all of 2011. Changes in interest rates or in the size of customer account balances and borrowings, depending upon the extent of the change, could materially change, positively or negatively (depending upon the direction of the change) the amount of our interest income. Our Brokerage Subsidiaries Must Meet Net Capital, Deposit And Other Financial And Regulatory Requirements As Broker-Dealer, Futures Commission Merchant And Retail Exchange Forex Dealer That, If Not Satisfied, Could Result in Severe Penalties Or Other Negative Consequences, And Which Could Reduce Or Limit The Cash We Have Available To Run Our Business The SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA, the DTCC, the OCC, certain exchanges and other regulatory and self-regulatory agencies or organizations have stringent rules with respect to the 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers and futures commission merchants, large, fluctuating cash deposit requirements, and reserve, settlement and other financial requirements. Our net capital, deposit and general brokerage cash requirements increase as we seek to grow our new TradeStation Prime Services division, as a futures commission merchant that clears omnibus and moves toward futures self-clearing, and as a forex principal dealer (as opposed to an introducing broker of forex accounts). If a firm fails to maintain the required net capital or satisfy required deposit, settlement, reserve and other financial and regulatory obligations, it may be subject to fines, penalties, limitations on the type or size of business it is permitted to conduct, or suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC or CFTC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA or the NFA, which could ultimately lead to the firm’s liquidation. Record levels and severe swings in market volatility in recent years have resulted in large and frequent changes in our available cash as we comply with these various requirements. In addition, if new or modified regulatory rules or requirements, or increased or more stringent enforcement and higher fines or greater sanctions, concerning required net capital, deposits, reserves, settlement obligations or other uses of cash, or the manner in which we operate our business and monitor and ensure compliance of our business operations with applicable laws, rules and regulations, are enacted or imposed in response to the recent economic crisis and certain recent enforcement actions and investigations, such rules or requirements could materially increase our cash requirements to conduct our business, require substantial increases in compliance, legal and/or brokerage operations costs (or result in fines, penalties or sanctions), limit or reduce our access to, or use of, a significant percentage of our now-available cash, or otherwise limit our ability to expand or even maintain our then-present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from our TradeStation Securities and TradeStation Forex brokerage subsidiaries is subject to applicable regulations, which, particularly if withdrawal rules become more restrictive, could materially impact our available working capital and materially impact or limit our ability to make acquisitions, repay debt as and when due, redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock, if required or desirable, and pay dividends in the future. See “We May Need Cash In The Foreseeable Future” above. If We Are Unable To Accelerate Or Otherwise Improve Our Technology Development Schedule With Respect To Release Or Launch Dates Of Planned Product And Service Initiatives And Enhancements, The Quality Of Our Products And Services And Competitiveness In The Active Trader Market May Decline We currently have several technology development projects and initiatives in progress to launch new or enhanced features, products and services we believe will increase and improve the quality of our offering, our competitiveness in the marketplace, our ability to penetrate further the active trader market in the U.S. and abroad and certain segments of the buy side institutional trader market, and customer retention. We believe it is important to accelerate or otherwise improve the currently-planned release dates of these products and initiatives. Despite our efforts, if we fail to increase adequately or otherwise use effectively and efficiently our technology development resources to complete and launch these projects and initiatives, we may lose market share or suffer other material adverse consequences. Our Systems And Our Customers’ Accounts May From Time To Time Be Vulnerable To Security Risks That Could Disrupt Operations, Harm Our Reputation And Expose Us To Potential Liability Our online electronic trading platform includes security features that are intended to protect the privacy and integrity of customer accounts. Despite these security features, our systems and our 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements customers’ accounts may from time to time be vulnerable to security risks such as break-ins and similar problems caused by third parties. We have experienced occurrences of unauthorized intrusion and criminal activity in customer accounts by persons who unlawfully access customer accounts and then place orders or other transactions in those accounts. Although we have taken measures and are in the process of completing measures to limit or prevent similar occurrences in the future, no assurance can be made that any such measures will be successful or that future occurrences will not result in substantial account losses that will ultimately be borne by us. Such intrusions and other disruptions could also disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and subject us to potential liability. We Are Exposed to Credit Risk We make margin loans to clients collateralized by client securities, and borrow securities to cover trades. In fact, nearly all of our clients’ accounts are margin, as opposed to cash, brokerage accounts. A portion of our net revenues is derived from interest on margin loans. To the extent that these margin loans exceed client cash balances maintained with us, we must obtain financing from third parties. We may not be able to obtain this financing on favorable terms or in sufficient amounts. By permitting clients to purchase securities on margin, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit, especially during periods of rapidly declining markets (such as those experienced in 2008) in which the value of the collateral substantially decreases in proportion to the amount of a client’s indebtedness. While we have implemented risk-management procedures designed to reduce this risk, there can be no assurance that we will not experience periodic or frequent unsecured account debits that materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, in accordance with regulatory guidelines, we collateralize borrowings of securities by depositing cash or securities with lenders. Sharp changes in market values of substantial amounts of securities and the failure by parties to the borrowing transactions to honor their commitments could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The Nature Of Our Business Results In Potential Liability To Customers Many aspects of the securities, futures and forex brokerage business, including online trading services, involve substantial risks of liability. In recent years there has been a high incidence of litigation involving the securities and futures brokerage industry, including both class action and individual suits and arbitrations that generally seek substantial damages, including in some cases punitive damages. The technology we use and rely upon, in addition to offering charting, trade analysis and trade execution services of various kinds, is designed to automatically locate, with immediacy, the best available price in the appropriate market in completing execution of a trade triggered by programmed market entry and exit rules. There are risks that the electronic communications and other systems upon which these products and services rely, and will continue to rely, or our products and services themselves, as a result of flaws or other imperfections or limitations in their designs or performance, may operate too slowly, fail, cause confusion or uncertainty to the user, or operate or produce results not understood or intended by the user. An investor or trader using either our full electronic trading platform or our subscription service might claim that investment or trading losses or lost profits resulted from use of a flawed version of one of our trading software tools or systems, or inaccurate assumptions made by the trading software tools regarding data, or inaccurate data. Major failures of this kind may affect all customers who are online simultaneously. Any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We do not currently carry any errors or omissions insurance that might cover, in part, some of the above-described risks. While our contracts with customers are, we believe, clear that customers who do business with us must knowingly assume all of the risks described above, there can be no assurance that a judge, arbitrator or regulator would enforce or honor such contractual 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements provisions. See “Conditions In The Securities And Financial Markets May Affect Our Rates Of Customer Acquisition, Retention And Trading Activity” and “Systems Failures May Result In Our Inability To Deliver Accurately, On Time, Or At All, Important And Time-Sensitive Services To Our Customers” above. We May Be Subject To Intellectual Property Litigation There has been substantial litigation in the software industry involving intellectual property rights. Although we do not believe that we are or will be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, any infringement case that may be brought against us could result in our being unable to use intellectual property which is integral to our business. In fact, we are currently involved in a lawsuit filed in the United States District Court, Northern District of Illinois, alleging that we are infringing several patents. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We May Not Be Able To Adequately Protect Or Preserve Our Rights In Intellectual Property Our success is and will continue to be heavily dependent on proprietary technology, including existing trading software, Internet, Web-site and order-execution technology, and those types of technology currently in development. We view our technology as proprietary, and rely, and will be relying, on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, patent protection, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. We own two patents, and also have pending patent applications covering certain aspects of the TradeStation electronic platform, but we do not yet know for certain if the patents will be issued. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services is difficult, however, and we may be unable to prevent, or unsuccessful in attempts to prevent, theft, “reverse-engineering,” copying, infringement or other unauthorized use or exploitation of our product and service technologies. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect (or defend) our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies or products and services. Self-Clearing Trades Has Risks Self-clearing operations for our active trader equities accounts (stocks and ETFs) began in September 2004 and for equity and index options trades began in March 2005. Some institutional equities accounts also clear through us. Prior to the September 2004 conversion of clearing services, all of our customers’ equities trades were cleared through Bear Stearns (which was acquired by JP Morgan Chase in 2008), as our clearing agent, which also provided to our active trader clients its short sale borrowing inventory. Later in 2011 we expect to be a forex dealer and no longer rely on a third-party dealer for execution and settlement of forex trades, and as of January 2010 we began to clear futures on an omnibus basis. With respect to all clearing services we provide, errors made by us related to the confirmation, receipt, settlement and delivery functions involved in securities, futures or forex transactions, the custody and control of client securities, contracts and other assets, or otherwise relating to the handling of our clients’ securities, contracts and funds, could lead to civil penalties and increased deposit and other requirements by governmental and self-regulatory organizations, as well as losses and liability in lawsuits relating to client accounts affected by such errors. Also, our savings from self-clearing may be more than offset by account losses or reduced trading activity if we experience difficulties in providing to our clients sufficient short sale borrowing inventory (for equities traders) or if any self-clearing mistakes or failures occur which undermine our customers’ or prospects’ confidence in our ability to conduct reliable self-clearing operations. Also, our equities, equity option 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and new forex self-clearing back-office operations rely on software licensed to us by SunGard, and our business would likely suffer substantial harm if that software fails, fails to be adequately supported by SunGard, or otherwise causes unintended results, or SunGard experiences a sudden business failure. There Are Risks Relating To Our Ability To Maintain Customer Privacy And Security And That Increased Government Regulation Of Internet Business May Occur Customers may refuse to transact business over the Internet, particularly business, such as ours, that involves the handling of significant amounts of customers’ funds, due to privacy or security concerns. This risk will grow if, as and to the extent “cyberterrorism” occurs or is perceived to be a viable, prominent threat or likelihood to occur (or recur on a regular basis). We do incorporate security measures into our privacy policies. However, no assurances can be made that a breach of such measures will not occur, and a major breach of customer privacy or security could have serious consequences for our Internet-based operations, which are central to our business. Use of the Internet, particularly for commercial transactions, may not continue to increase as rapidly as it has during the past few years as a result of privacy or security concerns, or for other reasons. If this occurs, the growth of our operations would be materially hindered. If Internet activity becomes heavily regulated in these respects or otherwise, that could also have significant negative consequences for the growth of our current and planned operations. Regulation S-P, an expansive SEC regulation concerning privacy, has many rules and requirements and we risk incurring substantial fines, and other negative regulatory consequences, if we fail to meet those requirements. See “Our Systems and Our Customers’ Accounts May From Time to Time be Vulnerable to Security Risks that Could Disrupt Operations, Harm Our Reputation and Expose Us to Potential Liability” above. The Loss of Key Employees Could Decrease The Quality of Our Management And Operations Our future success depends, in part, upon the continued service of our key senior management and technology development personnel. While we believe no one at our company is irreplaceable, the loss of the services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key personnel. Departures and additions of personnel, to the extent disruptive, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 