ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS NISOURCE INC. Sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact NiSource’s operations. NiSource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. Despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on NiSource’s infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the Company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. Although NiSource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. The Company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether. Growing competition in the gas transportation industry could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts. As a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and the shift in natural gas production areas, end users and LDCs may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with NiSource’s customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. The inability of NiSource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results. NiSource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. NiSource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. Substantially all of NiSource’s consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. Accordingly, NiSource’s ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. In the event a major subsidiary is not be able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to NiSource, its ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 Table of Contents 