ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Liquidity, Financial Resources, and Capitalization We have incurred a net loss from operations in the past and may not generate funds from operations or financing activities sufficient to meet all of our operating or capital cash requirements and, if we are unable to meet our needs for additional funding in the future, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease our operations. For each period since inception, we have incurred net losses from operations. For 2010, 2009 and 2008 our net losses from operations were $18.8 million, $47.2 million and $84.8 million, respectively. Our negative free cash flow (cash flow from operations less our capital expenditures) was $37.0 million, $50.4 million and $145.3 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2008, after an extensive review of our business and operations with the assistance of outside advisers, we commenced an enterprise-wide transformation plan intended to enhance shareholder value through focusing on improving service delivery, accelerating broadband revenue growth, and reducing our operating costs. In conjunction with this implementation, we have invested in new network infrastructure, sought to develop new service offerings and sought to expand our customer base in high-growth markets. While this transformation plan will continue to require significant capital expenditures, we continue to believe that it is the optimal way, and perhaps the only way, for us to remain competitive in the long term with much larger telecommunications providers. In this regard, we will continue to require significant capital expenditures to enhance, maintain and operate our fiber network. We also believe that in the current economic environment and the highly competitive telecommunications industry, certain opportunities may exist today that may not recur such as, but not limited to, the acquisition of other telecommunications service providers. On October 8, 2010, XO Communications, LLC (“XO LLC”), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into a Revolving Promissory Note with Arnos Corp., an affiliate of Carl C. Icahn, the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors and majority shareholder (the “Chairman”), pursuant to which Arnos provided the Company access to a $50.0 million revolving credit facility at an annual interest rate equal to the greater of LIBOR plus 525 basis points or 6.75%. The Revolving Promissory Note includes a fee of 0.75% on undrawn amounts and initially matured on the earliest of (i) October 8, 2011, (ii) the date on which any financing transaction, whether debt or equity, is consummated by the Company or certain of its affiliates in an amount equal to or greater than $50.0 million, which could include a rights offering, or (iii), at the Company’s option, a date selected by the Company that is earlier than October 8, 2011. The Company entered into the Revolving Promissory Note as it pursues long-term financing to, in part, allay potential concerns regarding the Company’s ability to invest in its transformation plan while retaining cash levels sufficient to fund its ongoing operations. At the request of XO LLC, Arnos Corp. entered into a First Amendment to the Revolving Promissory Note with XO LLC dated as of February 11, 2011 (the “Amendment”). The Amendment extends the latest maturity date of the Revolving Promissory Note from October 8, 2011 to May 1, 2012. Accordingly, the maturity date of the Revolving Promissory Note is the earliest of (i) May 1, 2012, (ii) the date on which any financing transaction, whether debt or equity, is consummated by the Company or certain of its affiliates in an amount equal to or greater than $50.0 million, and (iii), at the Company’s option, a date selected by the Company that is earlier than May 1, 2012. As of March 31, 2011, no amounts have been drawn on the Revolving Promissory Note. On October 12, 2010, XOH announced plans to offer to holders of the Company’s common stock rights to purchase shares of a new class of non-convertible preferred stock. Through this rights offering, XOH would seek to issue up to $200.0 million of non-convertible preferred stock as a means to increase capital in our Company without diluting the ownership interests of our stockholders and without subjecting us to unduly burdensome restrictive covenants and other negative consequences associated with incurring high yield debt. Prior to any issuance of rights, the Company intends to apply for listing of XOH common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Company’s application for the Nasdaq listing of XOH common stock would follow a one-for-twenty reverse split of the Company’s common stock intended to bring the share price to the level required for Nasdaq listing. There can be no assurance that a one-for-twenty reverse stock split would take place. There can be no assurance that a rights offering would be successful and there is no assurance that 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS the application for listing of XOH common stock on Nasdaq would be accepted. If a listing application is not accepted, the Company could still proceed with a rights offering (subject to any applicable state law restrictions) with the intention that XOH common stock would continue to be quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and on the Pink Sheets under the ticker symbol “XOHO.OB”. No assurance can be given that a market for rights or a new class of preferred stock would develop. On January 19, 2011, XOH received an offer from ACF Industries Holding Corp. (“ACF Holding”), which is an affiliate of the Chairman, to acquire, either directly or through an affiliate, ownership of 100% of XO Holdings in a transaction in which holders of common stock, other than ACF Holding and its affiliates, would receive consideration of $0.70 net per share in cash. On January 21, 2011, the Company announced the formation of a Special Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors composed of independent directors to consider, review, and evaluate the proposal. At that time, the Board of Directors delayed further action on the pending financing activities (reverse split, Nasdaq listing and rights offering) so that the Special Committee could begin its review process. Based on our current level of operations, we believe that cash flow from operations, cash on hand, marketable securities and cash available from the Revolving Promissory Note will enable us to meet our working capital and other obligations for at least the next 12 months. However, we believe that additional capital is necessary to continue to implement our transformation plan and also give us the resources to take advantage of opportunities which may arise for strategic growth and to repay amounts, if any, outstanding when due under the terms of the Revolving Promissory Note. Our ability to fund our capital needs depends on our future operating performance and cash flow, which are subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Heretofore, we have not generated sufficient free cash flows to allow us to continue to fully fund our transformation plan or to pursue other strategic opportunities. Accordingly, we believe it will be necessary to raise additional capital. We continue to monitor the impact of macro-economic conditions on our business. Potential negative aspects include a general slowdown in the demand for telecommunications services, delayed IT and other projects that have telecommunications needs, elongated sales cycles on the part of our customers, higher involuntary churn, and delayed payments from customers. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may not generate sufficient funds from operations to execute our transformation plan or to pursue other strategic opportunities. Consequently, we may be required to delay or reduce the scope of our capital expenditure activities, eliminate certain expenditures on long-term initiatives and/or implement cash preservation measures. In such a capital restricted situation, we may be forced to sell assets or securities or raise capital on an untimely or unfavorable basis, including through the issuance of securities that are senior to all current securities. We may seek additional financing to acquire capital assets in support of our operations, to capitalize on opportunities which may arise to enhance our competitive position, or for general corporate purposes. Whether or not the rights offering occurs or whether or not it is fully subscribed, we may seek additional financing (debt or equity) to operate and grow our business, including, without limitation, the possibility of an additional rights offering, including for securities that are senior to all current securities. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If available financing is limited or we are forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, we may need to curtail our business activities or increase our cost of financing, both of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The continuing effects of recent economic conditions could negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable general economic conditions, including the recent recession in the United States and the ongoing uncertainty affecting the banking system and financial markets, could negatively affect our business. Although it is difficult to predict the impact of general economic conditions on our business, these conditions could adversely affect the affordability of, and customer demand for, some of our products and services and could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products and services. One or more of these circumstances could cause our revenue to decline. Also, our customers may not be able to obtain adequate access to credit, which could affect their ability to make timely payments to us. Additionally, our business is dependent on third-party suppliers for hardware, software and services integral to our business. If these suppliers encounter financial difficulties, their ability to supply hardware, software and services to us may be curtailed. If we are unable to quickly identify suitable alternatives, we may incur significant additional costs or may not be able to provide certain products or services to customers. For these reasons, among others, if the current economic conditions persist or worsen, this could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to our Operations Our rights to use the fiber that makes up our network may be affected by the financial health of, or disputes with, our fiber providers. We possess rights to the fiber that is included in our networks, particularly in our inter-city network, through long-term leases or IRU agreements. A bankruptcy or financial collapse of one of these fiber providers could result in a loss of our rights under such leases and IRUs. If this were to occur, it could have a negative impact on the integrity and quality of our network, on our ability to expand the capacity of our network, and ultimately on our results of operations. If one or more of our fiber providers, as a result of a dispute with us, were to prevent us from lighting more fiber, such actions could have similar negative impacts on our operations and results. We depend on third-parties for the performance of certain network services and business operations. If any of the above referenced third parties fail to fully perform their obligations, were to experience significant reduction in quality, or terminate their agreements with us, such actions could increase our capital and operating expense outlays and negatively impact our results of operations. Furthermore, our network is made up of hardware and software provided by various third parties, including Cisco, Juniper, Nortel, Sonus, and Broadsoft. We are continually adding new hardware and software into our network as we expand or replace older equipment. In addition, we receive periodic hardware and software updates from our vendors. To operate effectively, all the various network elements must operate smoothly. Although we test new equipment before we add it to our network, there can be no assurance testing will identify all potential problems. To the extent that problems arise from third party hardware or software including interoperability with other network elements, the performance of our network may diminish. We use third parties to perform certain aspects associated with operating our network, including the signaling associated with completing voice calls. Additionally, we rely on third parties, including other carriers and equipment vendors, to perform certain maintenance and repair network services for us, including routine maintenance and repair work to correct network outages that may occur from time to time. If these third parties do not perform the specified services required under the terms of our contracts with them, or in a timely manner, the performance of our network could be adversely impacted. If any of the above referenced third parties fail to fully perform their obligations, were to experience significant reduction in quality, or terminate their agreements with us, such actions could increase our capital and operating expense outlays and negatively impact our results of operations. We may not be able to locate alternative providers of such services or do so at economical rates. Certain aspects of our service delivery, billing services and other support functions are outsourced to third party providers. As part of our transformation plan, we continue to consider and review outsourcing additional processes. If any of these third-party providers were to experience significant interruptions in their 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS business operations or terminate their agreements with us, our own processing could be materially and adversely affected for an indefinite period of time. There can be no assurance that we would be able to locate alternative providers of such services or that we could do so at economical rates. The failure of one or more of our operations support centers could impair our ability to retain customers, provision their services, or result in increased capital expenditures. In the event of a substantial failure of one or more of our operations support centers, our disaster recovery framework is not fully redundant and may not permit the timely recovery of our complete systems operations and/or performance of critical aspects of our services for an extended period. We may incur and/or suffer the costs, delays and customer complaints associated with system failures and may not be able to efficiently and accurately provision new orders for services on a timely basis to begin to generate revenue related to those services. We may not be able to continue to connect our network to ILEC networks or to maintain Internet peering arrangements on favorable terms, which could impair our growth and performance. We need interconnection agreements with ILECs in order to connect our customers to the Public Switched Telephone Network. If we are unable to renegotiate or maintain interconnection agreements in all of our markets on economically viable terms, it could adversely affect our ability to provide services in the affected markets or our ability to provide services on a price-competitive basis. We maintain peering agreements with various ISPs that allow us to exchange internet traffic with these providers. These exchanges are made under short-term contracts and may be made without the payment of settlement charges by either party (“settlement-free peering”) or may specify the payment of fees by one party to the other (“paid peering”). In the future, ISPs may change the terms of these peering relationships; including reducing or eliminating peering relationships, establishing more restrictive criteria for settlement-free peering, or imposing new or larger fees. Increases in costs associated with the exchange of internet traffic could adversely affect our margins for internet based services. We may not be able to renegotiate or maintain peering arrangements on economically viable terms, which could impair our growth and performance. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property or rights to licenses for use of third-party intellectual property, and may be subject to claims that we infringe the intellectual property of others, which could substantially harm our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, and other proprietary technology that we license from third parties. We have been issued several United States and foreign trademarks and may consider filing for additional trademarks in the future. We have also been issued one United States patent, with a second United States application pending, and may consider filing for additional patents in the future. However, we cannot assure that any additional patents or trademarks will be issued or that our issued patent or trademarks will be upheld in all cases. We cannot guarantee that these and other intellectual property protection measures will be sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our trademarks or technology or that our competitors or licensors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent to or superior to ours. In addition, the legal systems in many other countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the legal system of the United States. If we are unable to adequately protect our proprietary interests and business information or our present license arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Furthermore, the dependence of the telecommunications industry on proprietary technology has resulted in frequent litigation based on allegations of the infringement of patents and other intellectual property. In the future, we may be subject to litigation to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation also may be necessary to enforce and protect our trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property litigation could be costly and cause diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our business. Adverse determinations in any litigation could result in the loss of proprietary rights, subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses from third parties that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We could also be subject to court orders preventing us from providing certain services in connection with the delivery of services to our customers. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our spectrum licenses may not be renewed upon expiration, which could harm our business. Our spectrum licenses in the LMDS and 39 GHz bands are granted for ten-year terms. The FCC granted renewal of all 90 of our LMDS licenses that were up for renewal in 2008 for another 10 year term until 2018. On December 22, 2010, the FCC renewed all 10 of our 39 GHz licenses that were up for renewal in 2010 for another 10 year term until 2020. In order to secure renewal of our LMDS and 39 GHz licenses, we must generally be in compliance with all relevant FCC rules and demonstrate that we are providing “substantial service” in our licensed areas. The FCC has granted our extension request to demonstrate substantial service until June 1, 2012 for 48 of our LMDS licenses and for all 10 of our 39 GHz licenses. Substantial service showings for our remaining 43 LMDS licensed markets have been approved by the FCC. Failure to demonstrate substantial service in any licensed market could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. While management expects that we will be able to secure FCC approval of any substantial service filings in relation to the 48 LMDS licenses and all 10 of our 39 GHz licenses for which we received an extension until 2012 to demonstrate substantial service, there is no assurance that we will receive such FCC approvals. Risks Related to Competition and our Industry The telecommunications industry is highly competitive, and has experienced the consolidation of many existing competitors and the introduction of significant new competitors. If we are not able to successfully compete against existing and new competitors, our financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. The communications industry is highly competitive. We compete with AT&T, Verizon, Qwest Communications, Level 3 Communications, other ILECs and CLECs, cable operators and a host of other competitors in the provision of network services. Many of these competitors generate greater revenue, and possess significantly greater assets and financial resources than us, especially in light of mergers between AT&T and SBC, Verizon and MCI, and AT&T and Bell South. The significant financial resources of our larger competitors enable greater capability in deploying new technologies, new product offerings and enhanced service levels. In addition, we expect increased competition from the entry of non-traditional telecommunications companies, such as cable television companies, microwave carriers, wireless telephone system operators and private networks built by large end users, into our metropolitan markets. If we are not able to successfully compete against our larger competitors and the new entrants into the telecommunications market, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We face intense price competition in the market for network services which could result in adverse effects on our revenues, future cash flows, growth and profitability. We compete with AT&T, Verizon, Qwest Communications, Level 3 Communications, other ILECs and CLECs, cable operators and a host of other competitors in the provision of network services. Many of these competitors have high-capacity, IP-based fiber-optic networks capable of supporting large amounts of data, IP and voice traffic. Some of these competitors claim certain cost structure advantages that, among other factors, may allow them to offer services at a price below that which we can offer profitably. As a result of increasing competitive forces, including technological advances, service providers have reduced the prices charged for network services in recent years. Additionally, in light of past and potential future industry consolidations we face significant price and service competition with respect to our network services from these incumbents, which are the largest incumbent carriers in the United States, as well as from many other large telecommunications service providers that are the dominant competitors in all of our service areas. We expect to continue experiencing downward pricing pressure with respect to our network service offerings. Our ability to reduce prices in response to competitive pressures may be limited by our reliance on some of our principal competitors to provide key network elements that we need to provide network services, our ability to successfully deploy technologies that improve our network operating efficiencies, and our ability to continue to drive other cost structure improvements. If we are unable to competitively price our services to meet marketplace demand, we could experience adverse effects on revenues, future cash flows, growth and profitability. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our success is highly dependent on our ability to retain and recruit talented employees. We depend on the performance of our executive officers and key sales, engineering, and operations personnel, many of whom have significant experience in the telecommunications industry. If we were to experience the loss of a significant number of our professionals in the future, it could adversely affect our results of operations, including our ability to continue performing certain functions and to complete certain initiatives in accordance with our existing budgets and operating plans. To attract and retain the number of employees we need to grow our business, we may have to increase our compensation levels or incur higher recruiting costs in the future. We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers, and some of our customer agreements may not continue due to financial difficulty, acquisitions, non-renewal, or other factors, which could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We have substantial business relationships with several large telecommunications carriers for whom we provide wireless, local and long distance transport services. However, as of December 31, 2010, we did not have any individual customers who generated more than ten percent of our total revenue. The highly competitive environment and the industry consolidation in the long distance and wireless markets has challenged the financial condition and growth prospects of some of our carrier customers, and has caused such carrier customers to optimize the telecommunications capacity that they use among competing telecommunications services providers’ networks, including ours. Replacing this revenue may be difficult because individual enterprise and small to medium business customers tend to place smaller service orders than our larger carrier customers. In addition, pricing pressure on services that we sell to our carrier customers may challenge our ability to grow revenue from carrier customers. As a result, if our larger carrier customers terminate the services they receive from us, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain favorable terms for our leased fiber or maintenance agreements. We possess rights to the fiber that is included in our networks, particularly in our inter-city network, through long-term leases or IRU agreements. Additionally, we rely on third parties, including other carriers, to perform certain maintenance and repair network services for us. An inability to continue these relationships and to renew these agreements under similar terms, or to find suitable alternative solutions, could negatively impact our network and increase related costs and expenses, make it more difficult to provide competitively-priced services to our customers, increase our capital and operating expense outlays and, ultimately, adversely affect our operating results. Technological advances and regulatory changes are eroding traditional barriers between formerly distinct telecommunications markets, which could increase the competition we face and put downward pressure on prices, which could impair our results. New technologies and regulatory changes are blurring the distinctions between traditional and emerging telecommunications markets. Additionally, some of our biggest competitors have been freed from certain regulatory requirements that required such competitors to make certain elements of their networks available to CLECs on just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory rates, terms and conditions. Furthermore, the increasing importance of data services has focused the attention of most telecommunications companies on this growing sector. This increased competition could impair our prospects, put downward pressure on prices and adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to comprehensive and continually evolving regulation, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. XO Holdings and some of our services and facilities are regulated by the FCC, states, local zoning authorities, and other governmental entities in a regulatory environment that is becoming more challenging for CLECs. These regulators routinely conduct rulemaking proceedings and issue interpretations of existing rules. These regulatory proceedings could impose additional obligations on us, give rights to competitors, increase our costs, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to implement our business plan. Attempts to limit the basic competitive framework of the Telecom Act could be detrimental to the successful implementation of our business plan. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to our Common Stock An entity owned and controlled by our Chairman is our majority stockholder. As disclosed in amendments to the Schedule 13D filed with the SEC by the Chairman and certain affiliated entities, the Chairman beneficially owns approximately 91% of the aggregate vote of shares of XO Holdings. As a result, the Chairman has the power to elect all of our directors. Under applicable law and our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, certain actions can be taken with the approval of holders of a majority of our voting stock, including mergers, sale of substantially all of our assets and amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Future sales or issuances of our common stock could adversely affect our stock price and/or our ability to raise capital. Future sales or issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the common stock and our ability to raise capital. As of December 31, 2010, there were 182,075,165 shares of our common stock outstanding, with additional common shares potentially issuable based on the exercise of stock options or conversion of preferred stock. There are options outstanding to purchase 6.2 million shares of our common stock that have been reserved for issuance under the XO Communications, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (“2002 Stock Incentive Plan”) as of December 31, 2010. Unless surrendered or canceled earlier under the terms of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, those options will begin to expire in 2013. In addition, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes future grants of options to purchase our common stock, or awards of our restricted common stock, with respect to 9.5 million additional shares of our common stock. On July 25, 2008, 555,000 shares of our Class B preferred stock were issued to affiliates of our Chairman for an aggregate purchase price of $555.0 million. These shares are convertible at the option of the holder into shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, the Class B preferred stock was convertible into 438,244,214 shares of our common stock. However, pursuant to the terms of the Class B preferred stock, the number of shares of common stock into which the Class B preferred stock is convertible increases quarterly unless we elect to pay cash dividends in lieu of such accretion for any quarterly period. All of the Class B preferred stock is held by various affiliates of the Chairman. The holders of the Class B preferred stock have the right to require us to register for resale the Class B preferred stock and the shares of common stock into which it is convertible under the Securities Act, and to include such preferred stock and/or common stock in certain registration statements filed by us from time to time. As of December 31, 2010, none of the Class B preferred stock shares have been registered. Our common stock may be affected by limited trading volume and may fluctuate significantly. Currently our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and on the Pink Sheets under the ticker symbol “XOHO.OB”. If we proceed with a rights offering, we intend to apply for listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market prior to the issuance of any rights. There is no assurance that an application for listing of our common stock would be accepted. If the listing application is not accepted, we could still proceed with a rights offering (subject to any applicable state law restrictions) and our common stock would continue to be quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and on the Pink Sheets under the ticker symbol “XOHO.OB”. The trading volume of our common stock developed to date is limited by the fact that many major institutional investment funds and mutual funds, as well as many individual investors, follow a policy of not investing in Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and/or Pink Sheets stocks and, moreover, certain major brokerage firms restrict their brokers from recommending such stocks because they are considered speculative, volatile and thinly traded. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and Pink Sheets market is an inter-dealer market and is much less regulated than the major stock exchanges, and trading in our common stock is potentially subject to abuses, volatilities and shorting. In addition, there has been a limited public market for our common stock, and an active trading market for our common stock may not develop. As a result, this could reduce our stockholders’ ability to sell our 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS common stock in short time periods, or possibly at all. Our common stock has experienced, and is likely to experience in the future, significant price and volume fluctuations which could reduce the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and changes in the overall economy or the condition of the financial markets could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will use all of our available cash, if any, to continue to implement our transformation plan (which includes the acquisition of capital assets in support of our operations), to take advantage of opportunities which may arise to enhance our competitive position, to repay amounts, if any, outstanding when due under the terms of the Revolving Promissory Note and for general corporate purposes. Any payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that our Board of Directors deems relevant. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 