Item 1a. Risk Factors Factors Affecting Future Operating Results We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may not be profitable in the future. We incurred net losses of $6.4 million for 2008, $2.9 million for 2007 and $8.1 million for 2006. As of December 31, 2008, our accumulated deficit was $112.1 million. Our revenue and income from settlement and patent licensing may not increase, or even remain at its current level. In addition, our operating expenses, which have been reduced recently, may increase as we continue to develop our business and pursue licensing opportunities. As a result, to become profitable, we will need to increase our revenue and income from settlement and patent licensing by increasing sales to existing customers and by attracting additional new customers, distribution partners and licensees. If our revenue does not increase adequately, we may not become profitable. Due to the volatility of our product and licensing revenue and our income from settlement and patent licensing activities, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve or to maintain profitability or to sustain or grow our profits within the time frame expected by investors, the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted. Our expected future working capital needs may require that we seek additional debt or equity funding which, if not available on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. We may need to arrange for the availability of additional funding in order to meet our future business requirements. We have a revolving credit facility under which $7.0 million was outstanding on December 31, 2008, which matures on December 21, 2009, and $7.0 million in outstanding convertible promissory notes that become due and payable on January 4, 2010 if not earlier converted. If we are unable to obtain additional funding when needed on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, take advantage of opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, or finance our efforts to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, which could seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to continue operations. We have in the past, and may in the future, reduce our expenditures by reducing our employee headcount in order to better align our expenditures with our available resources. Any such reductions may adversely affect our ability to maintain or grow our business. We have implemented significant changes in our organizational structure, sales, marketing and distribution strategies, licensing efforts and strategic direction, which, if unsuccessful, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In July 2007, Simon Moss was appointed as President of the products division of our Company. In September 2007, William Campbell resigned from the position of Chief Operating Officer, and on January 1, 2008 Gerald Burnett resigned from his position as our Chief Executive Officer and was replaced in that position by Simon Moss. In January 2009, Bob Habig resigned from the position of Chief Financial Officer and he was replaced in that position by Elias MurrayMetzger, the Company’s Corporate Controller. In addition, during the second half of 2007 and in 2008, we implemented a number of other management changes. In 2007 and 2008, we implemented an intensive set of corporate initiatives aimed at increasing our product sales, expanding our customer deployments and support, improving our corporate efficiency and increasing our development capacity. The components of this initiative included: · Supplementing our position in the financial services vertical by expanding our market focus to additional verticals through indirect distribution partners, where our collaboration products can help global organizations speed business processes, save costs and reduce their carbon footprints; · Implementing aggressive cost control measures structured to effectively align operations with predictable revenues and to address Microsoft's requests for re-examination of our U.S. Patents, while still allowing us to continue to invest in our product line and to license our intellectual property and technology; · A reduction in our employees from an average of 88 in 2007 to approximately 50 at December 31, 2008; and · Pursuing multiple distribution, services and technology licensing partners. These and other changes in our business are aimed at reducing our structural costs, increasing our organizational and partner-driven capacity, leveraging our reputation for innovation and intellectual property leadership, and growing and expanding our business. However, these organizational changes and initiatives involve transitional costs and expenses and result in uncertainty in terms of their implementation and their impact on our business. As with any significant organizational change, our initiatives will take time to implement, and the results of these initiatives may not be fully apparent in the near term. If our initiatives are unsuccessful in achieving our stated objectives, our business could be harmed and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We may not satisfy the criteria for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market and our securities could be subject to delisting, which could materially and adversely affect the price and liquidity of our stock, our business and our financial condition. On November 21, 2008, we received a deficiency letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we did not comply with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3), which requires that we have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders’ equity or $35,000,000 in market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. We were granted a 30 day grace period, or until December 22, 2008 to regain compliance with the $35,000,000 provision of the Rule by recording a minimum closing bid price of $1.02 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. On December 24, 2008, we received a notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market stating that Avistar has not regained compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3)(B) and, as a result, our securities are subject to de-listing from The Nasdaq Capital Market unless we appealed the Nasdaq Staff’s determination to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. We appealed the Nasdaq Staff’s determination to the Listing Qualifications Panel which automatically resulted in the stay of the Staff’s de-listing of our common stock. The appeal took place on January 29, 2009 and the Listing Qualifications Panel has the authority to grant Avistar a further extension of time in which to regain compliance with the Marketplace Rules, though there can be no assurance that the Panel will grant a further extension of time. In the event that the Panel rejects our appeal, our securities will be subject to immediate delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market. There can be no assurance that our securities will continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, which may cause an adverse impact on the market price and liquidity of our common stock, and our stock may be subject to the “penny stock rules” contained in Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder. Delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Capital Market could also have a materially adverse effect on our business, including, among other things: our ability to raise additional financing to fund our operations; our ability to attract and retain customers; and our ability to attract and retain personnel, including management personnel. In addition, institutional investors may no longer be able to retain their interests in and/or make further investments in our common stock because of their internal rules and protocols. Our common stock has been and will likely continue to be subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control, which may prevent our stockholders from reselling our common stock at a profit. The trading price of our common stock has in the past been and could in the future be subject to significant fluctuations in response to: · general trends in the equities market, and/or trends in the technology sector; · quarterly variations in our results of operations; · announcements regarding our product developments; · the size and timing of agreements to license our patent portfolio or enter into technology or distribution partnerships; · developments in the examination of our patent applications and the re-examination of some of our issued patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; · announcements of technological innovations or new products by us, our customers or competitors; · announcements of competitive product introductions by our competitors; · changes in the status of our listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market; · limited trading volume of shares; and, · developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, or other events. If our revenue and results of operations are below the expectations of public market securities analysts or investors, then significant fluctuations in the market price of our common stock could occur. In addition, the securities markets have recently experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which have particularly affected the market prices for high technology and micro-cap companies, and which often are unrelated and disproportionate to the operating performance of specific companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefits to our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that may inhibit changes in our control that are not approved by our Board of Directors. For example, the Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of this preferred stock, without any further vote or action on the part of the stockholders. These provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in the control of Avistar despite possible benefits to our stockholders, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our stockholders. Our principal stockholders can exercise a controlling influence over our business affairs and they may make business decisions with which you disagree and which may affect the value of your investment. Our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 62% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. If they were to act together, these stockholders would be able to exercise control over most matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other investors. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of Avistar, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If our share price is volatile, we may be the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. Many technology companies have been subject to this type of litigation. Our share price has, in the past, experienced price volatility, and may continue to do so in the future. If the market value of our common stock experiences adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the merits or outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted, causing our business, financial condition and operating results to suffer. Our market is in the early stages of development, and our system may not be widely accepted. Our ability to achieve profitability depends in part on the widespread adoption of networked video communications systems and the sale and adoption of our video system in particular, either as a separate solution or as a technology integrated into a unified communications platform. If the market for our system and technology fails to grow or grows more slowly than we anticipate, we may not be able to increase revenue or achieve profitability. The market for our system is relatively new and evolving. We have to devote substantial resources to educating prospective customers, distributors and technology partners about the uses and benefits of our system and the value added through the adoption of our technology. Our efforts to educate potential customers and partners may not result in our system achieving broad market acceptance. In addition, businesses that have invested or may invest substantial resources in other video products may be reluctant or slow to adopt our system or technology. Consequently, the conversion from traditional methods of communication to the extensive use of networked video and unified communications may not occur as rapidly as we wish. Our lengthy sales cycle to acquire new customers, large follow-on orders, distributors and technology partners may cause our operating results to vary significantly and make it more difficult to forecast our revenue. We have generally experienced a product sales cycle of four to nine months for new customers or large follow-on orders from existing customers through direct sales. This sales cycle is due to the time needed to educate customers about the uses and benefits of our system, and the time needed to process the investment decisions that our prospective customers must make when they decide to buy our system. Many of our prospective customers have neither budgeted expenses for networked video communications systems, nor for personnel specifically dedicated to the procurement, installation or support of these systems. As a result, our customers spend a substantial amount of time before purchasing our system in performing internal reviews and obtaining capital expenditure approvals. Economic conditions over the last several years have contributed to additional deliberation and an associated delay in the sales cycle. Our lengthy sales cycle is one of the factors that has caused, and may continue to cause our operating results to vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year in the future. This makes it difficult for us to forecast revenue, and could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our shift to indirect distribution partners further limits the visibility we have on the progress and timing of large initial or follow-on orders. A lost or delayed order could result in lower than expected revenue in a particular quarter or year. There is also a tendency in the technology industry to close business deals at the end of a quarter, thereby increasing the likelihood that a possible material deal would not be concluded in a current quarter, but slip into a subsequent reporting period. This kind of delay may result in a given quarter’s performance being below shareholder expectations. 18 Table of Contents Because we still depend on a few customers for a majority of our product revenue, services revenue, and income from settlement and patent licensing, the loss of one or more of them could cause a significant decrease in our operating results. To date, a significant portion of our revenue and income from settlement and patent licensing has resulted from sales or licenses to a limited number of customers, particularly Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG, Polycom, Inc., IBM, and Sony and their affiliates. Collectively, Deutsche Bank AG, UBS AG, Polycom, Inc., IBM, Sony Corporation, and their affiliates accounted for approximately 92% of combined revenues and income from settlement and patent licensing for the year 2008. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 98% of our gross accounts receivable was concentrated with four customers, each of whom represented more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 78% of our gross accounts receivable was concentrated with three customers, each of whom represented more than 10% of our gross accounts receivable. The loss of a major customer or the reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers could cause our revenue to decline and our losses to increase. For example, income from settlement and licensing activities from Tandberg, which was $12.0 million in the first quarter of 2007, was a one-time payment, as was the $4.0 payment for a patent license from Radvision Ltd in the second quarter of 2007. Additionally, we expect to complete the amortization of the Polycom, Inc. proceeds in 2009. If we are unable to license our patent portfolio to additional parties on terms equal to or better than our agreements with Polycom, Inc. and Tandberg, our licensing revenue and our income from settlement and licensing will decline, which could cause our losses to increase. We currently depend on a limited number of customers with lengthy budgeting cycles and unpredictable buying patterns, and as a result, our revenue from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year may be volatile. Adverse changes in our revenue or operating results as a result of these budgeting cycles or any other reduction in capital expenditures by our large customers could substantially reduce the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to modify and improve our products in a timely and cost effective manner to respond to technological change and customer demands. Future hardware and software platforms embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and customer requirements could render our system non-competitive or even obsolete. Additionally, communication and collaboration products and technologies are moving towards integrated platforms characterized as unified communications. The market for our system reflects: · rapid technological change; · the emergence of new competitors; · significant development costs; · changes in the requirements of our customers and their communities of users; · integration of joint solutions in collaboration platforms; · evolving industry standards; · transition from hardware appliances and infrastructure to software; and · transition to Internet protocol connectivity for video at the desktop, with increasing availability of bandwidth and quality of service. Our system is designed to work with a variety of hardware and software configurations, and be integrated with commoditized components (example: “web cams”) of data networking infrastructures used by our customers. The majority of these customer networks rely on Microsoft Windows servers. However, our software may not operate correctly on other hardware and software platforms or with other programming languages, database environments and systems that our customers use. Also, we must constantly modify and improve our system to keep pace with changes made to our customers’ platforms, data networking infrastructures, and their evolving ability to integrate video with other applications. This may result in uncertainty relating to the timing and nature of our new release announcements, introductions or modifications, which in turn may cause confusion in the market, with a potentially harmful effect on our business. If we fail to promptly modify, integrate, or improve our system in response to evolving industry standards or customers’ demands, our system could become less competitive, which would harm our financial condition and reputation. Difficulties or delays in integrating our products with technology partner’s products could harm our revenue and margins. We generally recognize initial product and installation revenue upon the installation of our system in those cases where we are responsible for installation, which often entails working with sophisticated software and computing and communications systems. Under certain circumstances initial product and installation revenue is recognized under the percentage of completion method. The estimate of current period percentage of completion requires significant management judgment and is subject to updates in future periods until the project is complete. If we experience difficulties with installations or do not meet deadlines due to delays caused by our customers or ourselves, we could be required to devote more customer support, technical, engineering and other resources to a particular installation, modification or enhancement project, and revenue may be delayed. 19 Table of Contents Competition could reduce our market share and decrease our revenue. The market in which we operate is highly competitive. In addition, because our industry is relatively new and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving user needs, developing industry standards and protocols and the introduction of new products and services, it is difficult for us to predict whether or when new competing technologies or new competitors will enter our market. Currently, our competition comes from many other kinds of companies, including communication equipment, integrated solution, broadcast video and stand-alone “point solution” providers. Within the video-enabled network communications market, we compete primarily against Polycom, Inc., Tandberg ASA, Sony Corporation, Apple Inc., Radvision Ltd. and Emblaze-VCON Ltd. Many of these companies, including Polycom, Inc., Tandberg, Sony, Radvision and Emblaze-VCON have acquired rights to use our patented technology through licensing agreements with us, which, in some cases, include rights to use future patents filed by us. With increasing interest in the power of video collaboration and the establishment of communities of users, we believe we face increasing competition from alternative video communications solutions that employ new technologies or new combinations of technologies from companies such as Cisco Systems, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Nortel Networks Corporation that enable web-based or network-based video communications with low-cost digital camera systems. We expect competition to increase in the future from existing competitors, partnerships of competitors, and from new market entrants with products that may be less expensive than ours, or that may provide better performance or additional features not currently provided by our products. Many of our current and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and other resources, greater name recognition and market presence, longer operating histories, lower cost structures and larger customer bases than we do. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. We may be required to reduce prices or increase spending in response to competition in order to retain or attract customers, pursue new market opportunities or invest in additional research and development efforts. As a result, our revenue, margins and market share may be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and partnerships of our competitors, or that competitive pressures faced by us will not harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic conditions may impact our revenues and harm our business in the future, as they have in the past. The U.S. and global economy has entered a recession, and our customers and potential customers, partners and distributors may delay or forego ordering our products, and we could fall short of our revenue expectations for 2009 and beyond. Slower growth among our customers, tightening of customers’ operating budgets, retrenchment in the capital markets and other general economic factors all have had, and could in the future have, a materially adverse effect on our revenue, capital resources, financial condition and results of operations.. Future revenues and income from settlement and licensing activities are difficult to predict for several reasons, including our lengthy and costly licensing cycle. Our failure to predict revenues and income accurately may cause us to miss analysts’ estimates and result in our stock price declining. Because our licensing cycle is a lengthy process, the accurate prediction of future revenues and income from settlement and patent licensing from new licensees is difficult. The process of persuading companies to adopt our technologies, or convincing them that their products infringe upon our intellectual property rights, can be lengthy. The reexamination of our patents by the USPTO as described below or other challenges to our patent portfolio further complicate and delay our patent licensing efforts. There is also a tendency in the technology industry to close business deals at the end of a quarter, thereby increasing the likelihood that a possible material deal would not be concluded in a current quarter, but slip into a subsequent reporting period. This kind of delay may result in a given quarter’s performance being below analyst or shareholder expectations. The proceeds of our intellectual property licensing and enforcement efforts tend to be sporadic and difficult to predict. Recognition of those proceeds as revenue or income from settlement and licensing activities depends on the terms of the license agreement involved, and the circumstances surrounding the agreement. To finance litigation to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may enter into contingency arrangements and other strategic transactions with investors, legal counsel or other advisors that would give such parties a significant portion of any future licensing and settlement amounts derived from our patent portfolio. As a result, our licensing and enforcement efforts are expected to result in significant volatility in our quarterly and annual financial condition and results of operations, which may result in us missing investor expectations, which may cause our stock price to decline. 20 Table of Contents Our U.S. Patents are the subject of a re-examination request filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office by Microsoft Corporation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. On February 25, 2008 we announced that Microsoft Corporation had filed requests for re-examination of 24 of our 29 U.S. patents. Subsequently, Microsoft also filed requests for re-examination of our remaining five U.S. patents. On June 10, 2008 we announced that the USPTO had completed its review of Microsoft’s requests for re-examination and had rejected 19 of the re-examination applications in their entirety, and the majority of the arguments for one additional application. The USPTO agreed to re-examine, either in part or fully, 10 of our existing patents. Subsequently, Microsoft submitted five petitions for reconsideration of USPTO’s rejection of Microsoft’s re-examination applications. The USPTO’s review of the five petitions for reconsideration is currently in process, with an indeterminate time period established for their decision on Microsoft’s request. Once undertaken, the USPTO may take between six months and two years to complete patent re-examinations. We believe that our U.S. patents are valid and we intend to defend our patents through the re-examination process. However, the re-examination of patents by the USPTO is a lengthy, time consuming and expensive process in which the ultimate outcome is uncertain. The re-examination process by the USPTO may adversely impact our licensing negotiations in process, and may require us to spend substantial time and resources defending our patents, including the fees and expenses of our legal advisors. The potential impact to our results of operations may require us to seek additional financing to fund our operations and the defense of our patents. Infringement of our proprietary rights could affect our competitive position, harm our reputation or cost us money. We regard our system as open but proprietary. In an effort to protect our proprietary rights, we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as licensing, non-disclosure and other agreements with our consultants, suppliers, customers, partners and employees. However, these laws and agreements provide only limited protection of our proprietary rights. In addition, we may not have signed agreements in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place and the protection they produce may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. Although we hold patents and have filed patent applications covering some of the inventions embodied in our systems, our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. It is possible that a third party could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization and without our detection. In the event that we believe a third party is infringing our intellectual property rights, an infringement claim brought by us could, regardless of the outcome, result in substantial cost to us, divert our management’s attention and resources, be time consuming to prosecute and result in unpredictable damage awards. A third party may also develop similar technology independently, without infringing upon our patents and copyrights. In addition, the laws of some countries in which we sell our system may not protect our software and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or other countries where we hold patents. As we move to more of a software based system, inadequate licensing controls, unauthorized copying, and use, or reverse engineering of our system could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Others may bring infringement claims against us or challenge the legitimacy of our patents, which could be time-consuming and expensive to defend. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. We have been party to such litigation in the past and may be again in the future. The prosecution and defense of such lawsuits would require us to expend significant financial and managerial resources, and therefore may have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. The duration and ultimate outcome of these proceedings are uncertain. We may be a party to additional litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property, or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property of others. These claims and any resulting lawsuit could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the validity of our patents has been challenged in the past and may be challenged in the future through re-examination requests or other means. These lawsuits or challenges of our patents legitimacy in the US or foreign patent offices, regardless of their success, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: · stop selling, incorporating or using products or services that use the challenged intellectual property; · obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property a license to the relevant intellectual property, which may require us to license our intellectual property to such owner, or may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and · redesign those products or services that use technology that is the subject of an infringement claim. If we are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, we may be unable to manufacture, use, sell, import and export our products, which would reduce our revenues. 21 Table of Contents If our customers do not perceive our system or services to be effective or of high quality, our brand and name recognition would suffer. We believe that establishing and maintaining brand and name recognition is critical for attracting and expanding our targeted customer base. We also believe that the importance of reputation and name recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Promotion and enhancement of our name will depend on the success of our marketing efforts, and on our ability to continue to provide high quality systems and services, neither of which can be assured. If our customers do not perceive our system or services to be effective or of high quality, our brand and name recognition will suffer, which would harm our business. Our system could have defects for which we could be held liable for, and which could result in lost revenue, increased costs, and loss of our credibility or delay in the further acceptance of our system in the market. Our system may contain errors or defects, especially when new products are introduced or when new versions are released. Despite internal system testing, we have in the past discovered software errors in some of the versions of our system after their introduction. Errors in new systems or versions could be found after commencement of commercial shipments, and this could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts or the loss of credibility with current or future customers. Any of these events could result in a loss of revenue or a delay in market acceptance of our system, and could harm our reputation. In addition, we have warranted to some of our customers that our software is free of viruses. If a virus infects a customer’s computer software, the customer could assert claims against us, which, regardless of their merits, could be costly to defend and could require us to pay damages and potentially harm our reputation. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability and certain contract claims. Our license agreements also typically limit a customer’s entire remedy to either a refund of the price paid or modification of our system to satisfy our warranty. However, these provisions vary as to their terms and may not be effective under the laws of some jurisdictions. Although we maintain product liability (“errors and omissions”) insurance coverage, we cannot assure you that such coverage will be adequate. A product liability, warranty or other claim could harm our business, financial condition and/or results of operations. Performance interruptions at a customer’s site could negatively affect the demand for our system or give rise to claims against us. The third party software we license with our system may also contain errors or defects for which we do not maintain insurance. Typically, our license agreements transfer any warranty from the third party to our customers to the extent permitted. Product liability, warranty or other claims brought against us with respect to such warranties could, regardless of their merits, harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to expand our indirect distribution channel, our business will suffer. To increase our revenue, we must increase our indirect distribution channels, such as systems integrators, product partners and/or value-added resellers, which is a focus of our go-to market strategy, and/or effect sales through our customers. If we are unable to increase our indirect distribution channel due to our own cost constraints, limited availability of qualified partners or other reasons, our future revenue growth may be limited and our future operating results may suffer. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting, integrating, motivating and retaining sales personnel and channel partners. Furthermore, it can take several months before a new hire or channel partner becomes a productive member of our sales force effort. The loss of existing salespeople, or the failure of new salespeople and/or indirect sales partners to develop the necessary skills in a timely manner, could impact our revenue growth. We may not be able to retain our existing key personnel, or hire and retain the additional personnel that we need to sustain and grow our business. We depend on the continued services of our executive officers and other key personnel. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel and we do not carry any “key man” life insurance. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key personnel could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products and technologies are complex, and to successfully implement our business strategy and manage our business, an in-depth understanding of video communication and collaboration technologies and their potential uses is required. We need to attract and retain highly skilled technical and managerial personnel for whom there is intense competition. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified technical and managerial personnel due to our own cost constraints, limited availability of qualified personnel or other reasons, our results of operations could suffer and we may never achieve profitability. The failure of new personnel to develop the necessary skills in a timely manner could harm our business. 22 Table of Contents Our plans call for growth in our business, and our inability to achieve or manage growth could harm our business. Failure to achieve or effectively manage growth will harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, in order to remain competitive or to expand our business, we may find it desirable in the future to acquire other businesses, products or technologies. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, to finance the acquisition or to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and operations. In addition, completing a potential acquisition and integrating an acquired business may strain our resources and require significant management time. Our international operations expose us to potential tariffs and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements and laws and economic and political instability, as well as other risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. International revenue, which consists of sales to customers with operations principally in Western Europe and Asia, comprised 51% of total revenue for 2008, 72% for 2007 and 75% for 2006. Some of the risks we may encounter in conducting international business activities include the following: · tariffs and other trade barriers; · unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements and laws; · economic and political instability; · increased risk of infringement claims; · protection of our intellectual property; · restrictions on the repatriation of funds; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · timing, cost and potential difficulty of adapting our system to the local language standards in those foreign countries that do not use the English language; · fluctuations in foreign currencies; and · limitations in communications infrastructures in some foreign countries. Some of our products are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing substances and materials in products, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products. We could incur substantial costs, including fines and sanctions, or our products could be enjoined from entering certain jurisdictions, if we were to violate environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws. We also face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the materials composition of our products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances that apply to specified electronics products sold in the European Union (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive). The ultimate costs under environmental laws and the timing of these costs are difficult to predict. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in other regions, including in the United States, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. International political instability may increase our cost of doing business and disrupt our business. Increased international political instability, evidenced by the threat or occurrence of terrorist attacks, enhanced national security measures and/or sustained military action may halt or hinder our ability to do business, may increase our costs and may adversely affect our stock price. This increased instability has had and may continue to have negative effects on financial markets, including significant price and volume fluctuations in securities markets. If this international political instability continues or escalates, our business and results of operations could be harmed and the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 