ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (continued) NiSource Inc. benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. Changes in accounting principles may adversely affect NiSource’s financial results. Future changes in accounting rules, such as IFRS, and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way NiSource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results. Aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations, which could negatively impact our financial results. NiSource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. The age of these assets may result in them being more costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled outages in spite of diligent efforts by NiSource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. The failure of such assets could result in increased expenses which may not be fully recoverable from customers and/or a reduction in revenue. Climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. A disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. NiSource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. The cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect NiSource’s results of operations, financial position and cash flows. There is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect NiSource’s business in many ways, including increasing the cost NiSource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which NiSource operates. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 