D. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to various risks, many of which are beyond our control. If any of the risks described below actually occurs, our services, financial condition or results of operations could be seriously harmed. Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition and Business Any global systemic economic and financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition The systemic economic and financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 that affected global businesses including the banking and financial sectors also had an impact on the semiconductor markets, resulting in sharp declines in demand for our semiconductor packaging and testing services from which we generate our revenues. The global economy has been slowly recovering since the end of 2009. However, the global economy is still uncertain and may deteriorate in the future. There were, and could be in the future, domino effects from the global markets turmoil on our business, including significant decreases in orders from our customers, insolvency of key suppliers resulting in service delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our services, customer insolvencies, weak consumer confidence, diminished consumer and business spending and asset depreciation negatively impacting our operations. Any systemic economic or financial crisis could cause revenues for the semiconductor industry as a whole to decline dramatically and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry makes us particularly vulnerable to economic downturns and changes in the semiconductor industry Because our manufacturing services are, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements of semiconductor companies for independent testing and assembly services, any downturn in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, caused by economic downturns or other reasons, may reduce demand for our manufacturing services and adversely affect our results of operations. Variations in order levels from our customers and in service fee rates may result in volatility in our net operating revenues and earnings. The markets for semiconductors are also characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and periods of heightened competition. If demand for semiconductor capacity does not keep pace with the growth of supply, or further declines, our manufacturing services would be subject to more intense competition and our results of operations may suffer because of the resulting downward pricing pressure and capacity underutilization. Any increased competition may cause average selling prices of many of our semiconductor packages and testing services to decrease significantly, which may lead to pressure on our gross margins and negatively affect our operating results. Future downturns in the semiconductor industry may be severe. In the event of any future downturn, our average selling prices may decline without a corresponding decrease in our high fixed costs. This could lead to a decline in our profitability, which would seriously harm our manufacturing services. Our operating results fluctuate significantly, which may affect the value of your investments Our historical net operating revenues and results of operations have varied, at times significantly, from quarter to quarter. Our future net operating revenues, gross profit and operating income may vary significantly due to a combination of factors. These factors include: • our ability to develop and implement new technologies. If we are unable to successfully implement new technologies in a timely manner, our operating results could suffer because we would allow our competitors to seize the opportunities in developing new markets. • changes in our mix of manufacturing services or our customers’ preferences. When we discontinue or add manufacturing service or when our customers’ demand changes, our operating results usually fluctuate. 5 Table of Contents • changes in capacity utilization. When capacity utilization is low, such as in times of market downturns, we may need to adjust our mix of manufacturing services to respond to changes in demand and to adjust our prices sufficiently enough to maintain the level of our capacity utilization. Moreover, the substrate packaging which uses higher-cost raw materials has caused the costs of production for semiconductor packaging to rise significantly. If our revenues do not grow and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our profitability will suffer. We do not have any significant backlog because our customers do not place purchase orders far in advance, which makes us vulnerable to sudden changes in customer demand Our customers generally do not place purchase orders far in advance, and our contracts with major domestic customers do not generally require minimum purchase of our manufacturing services. In addition, our customers’ purchase orders have varied significantly from period to period because demand for their products is often volatile. As a result, we do not typically operate with any significant backlog. The lack of a significant backlog makes it difficult for us to forecast our net operating revenues in future periods and causes our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Moreover, our expense levels are based in part on our expectations of future revenue and we may be unable to adjust costs in a timely manner to compensate for revenue shortfalls. We expect that in the future our net operating revenues in any quarter will continue to be substantially dependent upon purchase orders received in that quarter. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as in prior periods. We also cannot assure you that our customers’ orders will be consistent with our expectations when we made or will make the necessary investments in raw materials, labor and equipment. If we are unable to maintain a steady return to our former capacity utilization rates, our profitability would be adversely affected Our profitability is affected by the capacity utilization rates for our machinery and equipment. Although our capacity utilization rate has improved in 2014 from 2013, we cannot assure you that this trend will continue. Our operations, in particular our bumping, chip scale package and testing operations have high fixed costs. Despite the improvement in the outlook for the semiconductor industry in 2014, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or surpass our past gross margin levels if we cannot consistently achieve or maintain relatively high capacity utilization rates. The factors affecting our capacity utilization in 2014 included inconsistent demand from customers due to: • the continued competition in the global market for mobile devices and personal computers, which caused our customers to frequently change their market strategy and adjust inventory levels to handle the pressure from their competitors; and • the continued strong demand for smart phones, which replaced the demand for personal computers and tablets. Such uncontrollable factors caused diverse capacity utilization in our different manufacturing processes. The continuing instability in demand has made it difficult to meet original planned weight in different services and sustain a high utilization rate. Any uncertainty in the semiconductor industry as a result of such events would harm our capacity utilization, and as a result may adversely affect our profitability and results of operations in the future. Given the high fixed costs of our services, high capacity utilization allows us to maintain higher gross margins because it allows us to allocate fixed costs over a greater number of units we package and test. Increases or decreases in capacity utilization rates will have a significant effect on our manufacturing services. Accordingly, our ability to enhance our gross margins will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to increase our capacity utilization rates. In order to increase or sustain our capacity utilization, we must: • ensure that our packaging and testing technologies meet our customers’ demands; 6 Table of Contents • install advanced equipment in anticipation of new business; and • prevent disruption of operations caused by fire, accidents, mechanical and technical failures, expansion, introduction of new packages or relocation of equipment. If demand for our manufacturing services does not meet our expectations, our capacity utilization would decrease and our profitability would suffer. We depend on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenues and a loss of any one of these customers would result in the loss of a significant portion of our revenues We are dependent on a small group of customers for a substantial portion of our manufacturing services. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, 57.0%, 60.0% and 69.5% of our net operating revenues, respectively, were derived from sales to our top ten customers. In 2014, our largest customer accounted for 12.9% of our net operating revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a significant portion of our net operating revenues because of the concentration of demand in the semiconductor industry for our manufacturing services. Our ability to maintain close and satisfactory relationships with our customers is important to the ongoing success and profitability of our manufacturing services. Few of our customers are presently obligated to purchase packaging or testing services or to provide us with forecasts of product purchases for any period. If any of our significant customers reduces, delays or cancels its orders to a significant degree, our manufacturing services would be harmed because each of these customers accounts for a significant portion of our net operating revenues. If capital resources required for our future expansion plans are not available, we may be unable to successfully implement our services strategy We have engaged in equipment and facilities expansion in recent years to upgrade our technology and equipment. Our business growth in the future will continue to require substantial capital expenditures to fund our expansion. We periodically review and adjust our capital expenditure plans to address our expectation of demand for our services and prevailing industry trends. The growing demand for our manufacturing services has and will continue to require significant capital expenditures on packaging technology and equipment. In making these planned capital expenditures, we may need to obtain additional capital. We may be unable to accurately estimate the timing and amount of our capital requirements, which depend on a number of factors, including demand for our manufacturing services, availability of equipment and market conditions. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on satisfactory terms to us, or at all, when we require additional financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot compete successfully in our industry, our current and potential customers would likely decide not to use our services, which would seriously harm our business The independent semiconductor packaging and testing industry is very competitive. We face substantial competition from established packaging and testing companies, including Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc. (Taiwan), Amkor Technology Inc. (USA) and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. (Singapore). We may face additional competition from new competitors in our industry in emerging markets other than Taiwan, such as the People’s Republic of China, or the P.R.C. For example, we may face increased competition from the P.R.C. for assembly and testing services of integrated circuits, where previously such competition was limited. On June 24, 2014, the P.R.C.’s National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Science, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology simultaneously announced the National Program to Promote the Development of the Integrated Circuit Industry. Under this policy, approximately RMB 100 billion (NT$509 billion or US$16.1 billion) of P.R.C. government investment funds will be allocated to support the P.R.C. semiconductor industry over the course of 10 years. As a result of such influx of funding to semiconductor companies in the P.R.C., our existing P.R.C. customers may be required to allocate a certain portion of their purchase orders to P.R.C. companies which could lead to a reduction in our business. Also, our P.R.C. competitors may be able to provide assembly and testing services for a lower price which could reduce our market share. To a lesser extent, we also compete with the internal packaging and testing capabilities of our customers who have in-house packaging and testing capabilities. Some of our competitors have greater technology resources. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, including established relationships with many large semiconductor companies which are our current or potential customers. These relationships and lengthy qualification periods required by most of our potential customers may prevent us from securing new customers. 7 Table of Contents If the outsourcing trend for packaging and testing services does not continue, we could lose a significant number of our current customers and we may be unable to implement our manufacturing services strategy plan in the future We depend on outsourcing of packaging and testing services by fabless semiconductor companies and integrated device manufacturers. In recent years, semiconductor companies have increasingly subcontracted parts of the semiconductor production process, including packaging and testing, to independent companies to reduce costs and shorten production cycles. However, we cannot assure you that the outsourcing trend will continue. If integrated device manufacturers become dissatisfied with the services of independent semiconductor packaging and testing companies, they may return to utilizing in-house packaging and testing capabilities. A reversal of, or slowdown in, the outsourcing trend would harm our business and make it difficult for us to implement our growth plan in the future. The trend of adopting protectionist measures in certain countries, including the United States, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition Governments in the United States, China, Europe and certain other countries have implemented fiscal and monetary programs to stimulate economic growth as a result of the recent economic downturn, and many of these programs include protectionist measures that encourage the use of domestic products and labor. If the governments in the countries where our customers are located enact protectionist measures that encourage the use of domestic products and labor, demand for our services could be adversely affected. Recent policy developments by the governments in China also suggest an increased unwillingness to allow international companies to invest in or acquire local businesses. Since some of our direct customers and other downstream customers in the supply chain are located in or have operations in the countries where protectionist measures were adopted, such protectionist measures could have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. Our production schedule may be delayed and our business may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain raw materials from our suppliers at acceptable prices, qualities and quantities We must obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials at acceptable prices in a timely manner. We source most of our raw materials, including critical materials, such as gold wire, bumping materials, substrates and lead-frames, from a limited group of suppliers. We purchase all of our materials on a purchase order basis at prevailing market prices and have no long-term contracts with any of our suppliers. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times or limit the supply of required materials to us because of supply capacity constraints during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. Consequently, we have experienced, and may in the future, experience difficulty in obtaining acceptable quantities of raw materials on a timely basis. In addition, from time to time, we may reject materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in declines in output or yield. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain in the future sufficient quantities of raw materials and other supplies of an acceptable quality. Our inability to obtain raw materials in a timely and cost effective manner would cause us to delay our production and delivery schedules, which may result in the loss of our customers and revenues. Gold wire is a substantial raw material to us. The spot price of gold fluctuates and may be unpredictable. The increase in the price of gold wire will result in the decrease in our gross margin. To the extent we are not able to offset any increases in our raw material costs, our gross margins may be adversely impacted. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain equipment from our suppliers, we may be forced to delay any future expansion plans We need to purchase new packaging and testing equipment if we decide to expand our operations. From time to time, increased demand for new equipment may cause lead times to extend beyond those normally required by equipment vendors. For example, in the past, increased demand for equipment caused some equipment suppliers to only partially satisfy our equipment orders in the normal lead time frame during market upturns for the semiconductor industry. The unavailability of equipment or failures to deliver equipment could delay implementation of our future expansion plans and impair our ability to meet customer orders. If we are unable to implement our future expansion plans or meet customer orders, we could lose potential and existing customers. Generally, we do not enter into binding equipment purchase agreements and we acquire our equipment on a purchase order basis, which exposes us to substantial risks. For example, sudden changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the U.S. dollar and Japanese yen, could result in increased prices for equipment purchased by us, which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our expansion plans could be jeopardized We have in the past and again recently experienced growth in the scope and complexity of our operations and in the number of our employees. This growth has strained our managerial, financial, manufacturing and other resources. In order to manage our future growth, we must continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future, and our failure to do so could jeopardize our future expansion plans. We depend on key management and the loss of any key management personnel may disrupt our manufacturing services Our success depends upon the continued service of key senior management. Members of our senior management have served us for an average of over ten years and have made substantial contributions to our growth. We do not have employment contracts with many of our senior management and none of our senior management is bound by any non-competition agreement. If we lose the services of key senior management we would be unable to find and integrate replacement personnel, which could adversely affect our services expansion. We depend on our technical personnel and the inability to attract and retain them would jeopardize our operations and future expansion plans Our business depends on technology and, accordingly, our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees, particularly engineering and technical personnel. Without sufficient numbers of skilled employees, our operations would suffer, resulting in deteriorating ability to solve operating and other issues in a timely and effective manner. Competition for qualified engineering and technical employees in Taiwan is intense and replacement of qualified employees is difficult. If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our technical personnel, our operations would be jeopardized and our operating efficiency would deteriorate. Our failure to comply with environmental regulations or to defend against environmental claims could expose us to serious liabilities The semiconductor packaging and testing processes produce wastewater, industrial waste (liquid waste and solid waste) and flue gas, which are regulated by the government. For example, wastewater is produced when silicon wafers are diced into chips using diamond saws and cooled with running water. Wastewater is also produced from the lead-frame plating rinse process, the flux cleaning of die-attach, the ball-place process of flip-chip ball grid array, ball grid array production, and rinsing in the bumping process. According to nature of the different wastewater produced, we utilize specific treatment facilities to optimize the wastewater treatment effect and efficiency in our regulation compliance efforts. However, we cannot assure you that we will fully eliminate the adverse effects of environment from wastewater. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with any environmental regulations could result in damages or fines against us or suspension of production. We may be required by new regulations to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. If we fail to control the use of hazardous substances, we could incur future liabilities, including clean-up costs. 9 Table of Contents We and our customers and suppliers are vulnerable to natural disasters and other events beyond our control, the occurrence of which may seriously harm our manufacturing services Our operations and those of our customers and suppliers are particularly vulnerable to fires, earthquakes, typhoons, droughts, floods, power losses, and similar events. Disruptions or delays in our supply chain may result in shortages of components we utilize which may in turn affect our ability to successfully perform our semiconductor packaging and testing services. Any failure on our part to provide our services to customers may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that future natural disasters will not cause material damage to our facilities or property, including work in progress, or cause significant business interruptions. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance for such risks, there is no guarantee that future damages or business loss from natural disasters will be covered by such insurance, that we will be able to collect from our insurance carriers, should we choose to claim under our insurance policies, or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, the production facilities of many of our suppliers and customers’ providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services, including foundries, are located in Taiwan. If our customers are affected, it could result in a decline in the demand for our testing and assembly services. If our suppliers and providers of complementary semiconductor manufacturing services are affected, our production schedule could be interrupted or delayed. As a result, a major earthquake, natural disaster or other disruptive event in Taiwan could severely disrupt the normal operation of business and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Climate change, other environmental concerns and green initiatives present commercial challenges, economic risks and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the manner in which we conduct our business Increasing climate change and environmental concerns could affect the results of our operations if any of our customers would request us to exceed any standard(s) set for environmentally compliant products and services. If we are unable to offer such products or offer products that are compliant, but are not as reliable due to the lack of reasonably available alternative technologies or materials, we may lose market share to our competitors. Customers may request us to provide information on a particular product’s carbon footprint, which is expressed in terms of the carbon dioxide emission from our manufacture of a product. If we are unable to provide the requested information to customers, or if we provide a higher carbon footprint figure than customers expect, we may also lose market share, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, energy costs in general could increase significantly due to climate change regulations. Therefore, our energy costs may increase significantly if utility or power companies pass on their costs, fully or partially, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and carbon credit trading programs. In addition, more frequent droughts and floods, extreme weather conditions and rising sea levels could occur due to climate change. The impact of such changes could be significant as our facilities are located in Taiwan, which is an island. For example, transportation suspension caused by extreme weather conditions could harm the delivery of our supplies and the distribution of the products on which we provide our services. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of disasters or climate change. Disruptions in the international trading environment may seriously decrease our international sales A substantial portion of our net operating revenues is derived from sales to customers located outside of Taiwan. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, sales to our overseas customers accounted for 78.7%, 78.1% and 80.5%, respectively, of our net operating revenues. We expect sales to customers outside of Taiwan to continue to represent a significant portion of our net operating revenues. As a result, our manufacturing services will continue to be vulnerable to disruptions in the international trading environment, including adverse changes in foreign government regulations, political unrest and international economic downturns. These disruptions in the international trading environment affect the demand for our manufacturing services and change the terms upon which we provide our manufacturing services overseas, which could seriously decrease our international sales. 10 Table of Contents Compliance with laws relating to conflict minerals may increase our costs and lead to reputational challenges. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo, or the DRC, and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefiting armed groups. As a result, the SEC has adopted due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies which manufacture products that include components containing gold, columbite-tantalite (tantalum), cassiterite (tin) and wolframite (tungsten), regardless of whether the minerals are actually mined in the DRC or adjoining countries. We filed our first report in 2014 and we expect to file our report for the 2014 compliance year on or before the due date of May 31, 2015. In order to comply with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we will verify all relevant factual data with our vendors in accordance with the industry accepted procedures and the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and Global e-Sustainability conflict minerals reporting template, and file the required reports annually. Although we expect that we and our vendors will be able to comply with the requirements, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to gather all the information required. In addition, such regulations could decrease the availability and increase the prices of components used in our services, particularly if we choose (or are required by our customers) to source such components from different suppliers than we use now. Furthermore, as our supply chain is complex, we expect that the compliance process will be both time-consuming and costly. We may face reputational challenges if we are unable to timely verify the origins of minerals contained in the components used in our services, or if our due diligence process reveals that materials we source originate in the DRC or adjoining countries and benefit armed groups. Similarly, many countries are considering regulations concerning disclosure and enforcement of human rights within supply chains. Although our own operations comply with the employment and employee rights requirements under the laws of the countries where we have operations, such proposals extend to the operations of suppliers, wherever they may be located. While we require our suppliers and/or our supply chain to abide by the laws and/or requirements of being conflict free, and we believe our suppliers comply with applicable human rights requirements, there can be no guarantee that they will continue to do so, or that we will be able to obtain the necessary information on their activities to comply with whatever future requirements may be enacted. The accounting treatment for our outstanding convertible bonds, including the treatment for conversion option, redemption option and put option embedded in our outstanding convertible bonds, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In October 2014, we issued US$400 million unsecured convertible bonds due 2019. Since the convertible bonds are denominated in U.S. dollars which is different from our functional currency, under IFRS, we separated the conversion option, redemption option and put option embedded in the convertible bonds, or the bond options, and recognized them as a freestanding derivative at fair value through profit or loss. To determine the fair value of the bond options of the convertible bonds, we are subject to a mark-to-market accounting on the bond options embedded in the convertible bonds. The fair value of the bond options is determined by valuation techniques, and one of the key assumptions used is the share price of our common shares. If the fair value of our common shares rises, mark-to-market of the bond options would lead to losses in our financial statements. For each reporting period over the term of the convertible bonds, a gain (or loss) will be reported in our consolidated statement of comprehensive income to the extent the fair value of the bond options changes from the previous period. Changes in fair value of the bond options generated a loss of NT$321 million (US$10.2 million) in 2014. See notes 14, 15, 27 and 38 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Risks Relating to Our Technologies If we cannot respond to rapid technology changes in the semiconductor packaging and testing industry, our profitability will suffer The semiconductor packaging and testing industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of semiconductor packaging and testing services. As a result, we expect that we will need to continue to develop and offer more advanced packaging and testing processes in order to respond to our customers’ requirements as industry conditions change. Developing and maintaining advanced packaging and testing processes requires significant research and development and capital expenditures. 11 Table of Contents In addition, advances in technology typically lead to rapid and significant price erosion and decreased margins for older manufacturing services and may cause our current manufacturing services to become less competitive. Our failure to develop or obtain advanced packaging and testing technologies will materially and adversely affect our mix of manufacturing services and would harm our profitability. If we are unable to successfully perform manufacturing services within the acceptable range of precision, we will not be able to achieve satisfactory production yields and our results of operations will suffer The semiconductor packaging and testing processes are complex and involve a number of precise steps. Defective packaging and testing can result from a number of factors, including: • the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment; • human error; • equipment malfunction; • incorrect process condition setting; • use of defective raw materials; and • inadequate sample testing. From time to time, we expect to experience lower than anticipated production yields as a result of the above factors, particularly in connection with the expansion of our capacity or change in our processing methods. In addition, our yield provided by new manufacturing services will be lower than average as we develop the necessary expertise and experience to perform those manufacturing services. If we fail to maintain high quality production standards, our reputation may suffer and our customers may cancel their orders or ask for discount. We rely on technology provided by third parties We rely on certain technologies that we have obtained through alliances or licenses. For example, we have licensed from Freescale Semiconductor Inc., or Freescale, formerly part of Motorola, Inc., or Motorola, the technology for ball grid array. We make royalty payments to Freescale and have the license to use this technology until December 2015. We implement new package technologies by entering into technology alliances and by licensing package technologies from certain technology companies. There can be no assurance that third parties will continue to license advanced technologies to us on terms satisfactory or acceptable to us after these licensing agreements expire, or at all. In the event that we are unable to license such advanced technologies from the third parties, we may be required to develop designed around technologies internally. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop such technologies internally. Disputes over intellectual property rights could be costly and could deprive us of technologies to stay competitive We may suffer legal liabilities and damages if we infringe on the proprietary rights of others or incur costs resulting from legal claims and adverse proceedings against us. For example, on March 1, 2006, we were informed of a lawsuit, or the California Litigation, brought by Tessera Inc., or Tessera, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against us, our subsidiary Siliconware U.S.A., Inc. and five other semiconductor companies and their subsidiaries. Tessera alleged that some of our packaging services infringe patents owned by Tessera and that we have breached license agreements with Tessera. In April 2013, we settled the California Litigation by agreeing to pay US$30 million. The settlement amount is classified in our consolidated financial statements an operating expense. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Litigation.” 12 Table of Contents Despite the risk that we may infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we have no means of knowing what patent applications have been filed in the United States or elsewhere until they are granted or published. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, although such litigations in the semiconductor packaging and testing industry tend to not be so prevalent. If any third party were to make valid intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers, we could be required to: • discontinue using disputed process technologies which would prevent us from offering some of our packaging and testing services; • pay substantial monetary damages; • seek to develop non-infringing technologies, which may not be feasible; or • seek to acquire licenses to the infringed technology, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We could also be required to expend substantial resources to defend any claim alleging our infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or if litigation relating to patent infringement or other intellectual property matters occurs, it could seriously harm our company. In addition, we have acquired patents and trademarks to protect some of our proprietary technologies and manufacturing services. We cannot assure you, however, that these measures will provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property. For example, our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior manufacturing service technology, or we may not successfully protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. Political and Economic Risks We face substantial political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the tense relationship between the Republic of China, or the R.O.C., and the P.R.C. Our principal executive offices and all of our assets are substantially located in Taiwan. Accordingly, our services, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our common shares and the ADSs may be affected by changes in R.O.C. governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. Taiwan has a unique international political status. Since 1949, Taiwan and the Chinese mainland have been separately governed. The P.R.C. claims that it is the sole government in China and that Taiwan is part of China. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C., relations have often been strained. The P.R.C. government has refused to renounce the use of military force to gain control over Taiwan and, in March 2005, further passed an Anti-Secession Law that authorizes non-peaceful means and other necessary measures should Taiwan move to gain independence from the P.R.C. Past developments in relations between the R.O.C. and the P.R.C. have on occasion depressed the market prices of the securities of companies in the R.O.C. The R.O.C. also maintains important trade relations with the U.S., which has sometimes led to increased friction between the U.S. and the P.R.C. Any deterioration in relations among the U.S., the R.O.C. and the P.R.C. and other factors affecting military, political or economic conditions in Taiwan could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price and the liquidity of our securities. 13 Table of Contents The trading price of our American Depositary Shares may be adversely affected by the general activities of the Taiwan Stock Exchange and U.S. stock exchanges, the trading price of our shares, fluctuations in interest rates and the economic performance of Taiwan and global markets Our shares are listed on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The trading price of our ADSs may be affected by the trading price of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is a smaller market and, more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and a number of European countries. The Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices and volumes of sales of listed securities, and there are currently limits on the range of daily price movements on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. During 2014, the Taiwan Stock Exchange Index peaked at 9,569.17 on July 15 and reached a low of 8,264.48 on February 5. From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014, daily closing values of our shares ranged from NT$35.40 per share to NT$55.30 per share. The Taiwan Stock Exchange is particularly volatile during times of political instability, including when relations between Taiwan and the P.R.C. are strained. Moreover, the Taiwan Stock Exchange has experienced problems including market manipulation, insider trading and settlement defaults. The recurrence of these or similar problems could decrease the market price and liquidity of our shares and ADSs. The market price of the ADSs may also be affected by general trading activities on the U.S. stock exchanges, which have experienced significant price volatility with respect to shares of technology companies. Fluctuations in interest rates and other general economic conditions, such as recession and economic downturns caused by the debt crisis, high energy costs and other concerns, in Taiwan and other countries where our services are provided may also have an effect on the market price of our ADSs. Daily closing values of our ADSs ranged from US$1.88 to US$12.54 between June 7, 2000, the date on which our ADSs were listed on NASDAQ National Market, or NASDAQ, and December 31, 2014. Over the same period, the NASDAQ Composite Index ranged from 1,114.11 to 4,806.91. Currency fluctuations could increase our costs relative to our revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability Volatility in foreign exchange rates may have a material effect on our business. We are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates among the U.S. dollar, the Japanese Yen, the NT dollar and other currencies. Some of our net operating revenues are denominated in currencies other than NT dollars, such as U.S. dollars, while more than half of our costs of direct labor, raw materials and overhead are incurred in NT dollars. Therefore, any significant fluctuation in exchange rates could be harmful to our financial condition. In 2014, the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NT dollar has ranged from a high of NT$31.80 per US$1.00 to a low of NT$29.85 per US$1.00. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NT dollar will also affect the U.S. dollar value of the ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any cash dividends we pay, which could have a corresponding effect on the market price of the ADSs. Any future outbreak of contagious diseases may materially and adversely affect our manufacturing services and operations, as well as our financial condition and results of operations Any future outbreak of contagious diseases, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome or H7N9 avian influenza, may affect our ability to maintain sufficient operating staff and services, and may generally disrupt our operations. An outbreak of influenza on the human population could result in a widespread health crisis which could adversely affect the economies and financial markets of many countries, particularly in Asia. There is no guarantee that any future outbreak of contagious diseases or the measures taken by various countries of the world in response to a future outbreak of contagious diseases will not seriously interrupt our operations or those of our suppliers and customers. If any of our employees is suspected of having contracted any contagious disease, we may, under certain circumstances, be required to quarantine such employees and the affected areas of our premises. As a result, we may have to temporarily suspend part or all of our operations. Furthermore, any future outbreak may restrict the level of economic activity in affected regions, including Taiwan and China, which may also adversely affect our manufacturing services and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of contagious diseases would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our future tax obligations or reductions in tax exemptions may adversely affect our profitability The Amendments of the Income Tax Law promulgated on May 27, 2009 reduced the income tax rate for profit-seeking enterprises from 25% to 20%, which is effective from January 1, 2010. The corporate income tax rate is further reduced from 20% to 17%, which is effective from January 1, 2010, based on the Amendments of the Income Tax Law promulgated on June 15, 2010. In addition, according to the Industrial Innovation Act issued on May 12, 2010, the deductible rate of investment tax credit for qualifying research and development expenditures was reduced from 30% to 15% starting January 1, 2010. Because we met the requirements of Incentives for Emerging Important Strategic Industries in Manufacturing and Technology Services for our capitalization plans in 2005 and 2006, we were exempt from income tax for revenues arising from the assembly and testing of certain IC products for a five-year period from 2008. The five-year income tax exemptions expired in December 2012 and May 2013, respectively. The Industrial Development Bureau of Ministry of Economic Affairs has issued another permission for the five-year income tax exemption of our 2007 registered capitalization plan in 2008. We acquired the work completion certificate from Taichung City Government Economic Development Bureau in 2013, and selected 2015 as the starting period for the income tax exemption. Revenue arising from the assembly and testing of certain integrated circuit products will be exempt from income tax. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain tax exemptions in the future. Any expiration, reduction or elimination of our preferential tax benefits or tax exemptions would increase our tax obligations and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Relating to the P.R.C. Our operations in the P.R.C. may expose us to political, regulatory, economic and foreign investment risks in the P.R.C. Some of our customers and foreign competitors have expanded their operations to the P.R.C. In order to remain competitive and to position ourselves to gain market share, we established a subsidiary named Siliconware Technology (Suzhou) Limited, or Siliconware Suzhou, in 2002, which currently is primarily engaged in the assembly and testing service. Prior to 1978, the P.R.C. operated under a central economic planning system. All production and economic activities in the country were governed by the economic goals set out in the five-year plans and annual plans adopted by central authorities. Since 1978, the P.R.C. government has permitted foreign investment and implemented economic reforms, gradually changing from a planned economy to a market-oriented economy. However, many of the reforms and economic policies adopted or to be adopted by the P.R.C. government are unprecedented or experimental in nature and may have unforeseen results, which may have an adverse effect on enterprises with substantial business in the P.R.C., including us. Since 1979, many laws and regulations dealing with general economic matters or particular economic activities have been promulgated in the P.R.C. However, enforcement of existing laws and regulations may be uncertain and sporadic and implementation and interpretation thereof may be inconsistent. The P.R.C. judiciary is relatively inexperienced and underdeveloped in enforcing the laws and regulations that currently exist, leading to a degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Further, it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The P.R.C.’s legal system is based on written statutes and, therefore, decided legal cases do not have binding legal effect, although they are often followed by judges as guidance. The introduction of new P.R.C. laws and regulations and the interpretation of existing laws and regulations may be subject to policy changes reflecting domestic political or social changes. As the P.R.C. legal system develops, there can be no assurance that changes in such legislation or interpretation thereof would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of our operations and future prospects. 15 Table of Contents Changes in P.R.C. foreign exchange regulations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition The exchange rate between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the P.R.C. government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. Since July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow range against the US dollar. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the P.R.C. government would further reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. In April 2012, the People’s Bank of China announced that it would expand the floating range of the trading price of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar from 0.5% to 1.0%. In March 2014, the People’s Bank of China announced that it would further expand the floating range of the trading price of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar from 1.0% to 2.0%. The Renminbi appreciated 25.0% against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2014. Although it is difficult to predict how Renminbi exchange rates may change going forward, a more flexible currency policy could result in a further and more significant appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Any increase in the value of the Renminbi might adversely affect the growth of the Chinese economy, increase our operating expenses as well as the competitiveness of various industries in China, including our industry, which could in turn affect our financial condition and results of operations. An increase in labor costs may undermine our cost competitiveness, erode our profitability and thus affect our financial performance We, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on our workers in our various manufacturing facilities. Labor costs in the various countries where we have manufacturing facilities may increase as those countries develop and have populations that are more affluent. For example, as factory workers have sought higher wages in China, we have been adjusting the wages of our workers in line with market conditions. In addition, increased labor costs of our suppliers could be passed along to us. These increases in labor cost may undermine our cost competitiveness, erode our profitability and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Shares or ADSs Restrictions on the ability to deposit shares into our ADS program may adversely affect the liquidity and price of the ADSs The ability to deposit shares into our ADS program is restricted by R.O.C. law. Under current R.O.C. law, no person or entity, including you and us, may deposit shares into our ADS program without specific approval of the R.O.C. Securities and Futures Bureau, or R.O.C. SFB except for the deposit of the shares into our ADS program and for the issuance of additional ADSs in connection with: • distribution of share dividends or free distribution of our shares; • exercise of the preemptive rights of ADS holders applicable to the shares evidenced by ADSs in the event of capital increases for cash; or • if permitted under the deposit agreement and the custody agreement, purchases of our shares in the domestic market in Taiwan by the investor directly or through the depositary or the surrender of shares under the possession of investors and then delivery of such shares to the custodian for deposit into our ADS program, subject to the following conditions: (i) the depositary may accept deposit of those shares and issue the corresponding number of ADSs with regard to such deposit only if the total number of ADSs outstanding after the deposit does not exceed the number of ADSs previously approved by R.O.C. SFB, plus any ADSs issued pursuant to the events described in the above two bullet points; and (ii) this deposit may only be made to the extent previously issued ADSs have been cancelled. As a result of the limited ability to deposit shares into our ADS program, the prevailing market price of our ADSs on NASDAQ, may differ from the prevailing market price of the equivalent number of our shares on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. 16 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs will not have the same proposal or voting rights as the holders of our shares, which may affect the value of your investment Due to the amendment to the R.O.C. Company Act and the amendment made to our articles of incorporation accordingly, except for treasury shares, each common share is generally entitled to one vote and no voting discount will be applied. However, except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. The voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs must be exercised as to all matters brought to a vote of shareholders collectively in the same manner. Moreover, holders of the ADSs do not have individual rights to propose any matter for shareholders’ votes at our shareholders’ meetings. However, holders of at least 51% of the ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date may request the depositary to submit to us one proposal per year for consideration at our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting, provided that such proposal meets certain submission criteria and limitations, including the language and the length of the proposal, the time of submission, the required certification or undertakings, and the attendance at the annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting. A qualified proposal so submitted by the depositary will still be subject to review by our board of directors and there is no assurance that the proposal will be accepted by our board of directors for inclusion in the agenda of our annual ordinary shareholders’ meeting. Furthermore, if we determine, at our discretion, that the proposal submitted by the depositary does not qualify, we have no obligation to notify the depositary or to allow the depositary to modify such proposal. Furthermore, if holders of at least 51% of the ADSs outstanding at the relevant record date instruct the depositary to vote in the same manner regarding a resolution, including election of directors, the depositary will appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to represent the ADS holders at the shareholders’ meetings and to vote the shares represented by the ADSs outstanding in the manner so instructed. If by the relevant record date the depositary has not received instructions from holders of ADSs holding at least 51% of the ADSs to vote in the same manner for any resolution, then the holders will be deemed to have instructed the depositary to authorize and appoint our Chairman, or his designee, to vote all the shares represented by ADSs at his sole discretion, which may not be in your interest. Our ADS holders may experience dilution if we distribute rights to our shareholders or sell additional equity or equity-linked securities We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. Furthermore, the sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities may result in dilution to our ADS holders. In October 2014, we issued US$400 million unsecured zero coupon convertible bonds due 2019 to procure foreign currency-denominated raw materials and repay long-term debt. The bonds are convertible by holders at any time on or after December 10, 2014 until 10 days before maturity. The current conversion price is NT53.1038 per common share. As of March 31, 2015, none of the bonds has been converted into our common shares, and the balance of the outstanding bonds was US$400.0 million. Upon full conversion, the outstanding bonds would be converted to 228,925,236 common shares if based on the current conversion price, representing approximately 7.4% of our outstanding shares as of March 31, 2015. Any conversion of the bonds, in full or in part, would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and our earnings per share and could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by the laws governing R.O.C. corporations. The rights of our shareholders to bring shareholders’ suits against us or our board of directors under R.O.C. law are much more limited than those of the shareholders of U.S. corporations. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by our management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Please refer to “Item 10. Additional Information—B. Memorandum and Articles of Association” included elsewhere in this annual report for a detailed discussion of the rights of our shareholders to bring legal actions against us or our directors under R.O.C. law. 17 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs will be required to appoint several local agents in Taiwan if they withdraw shares from our ADS program and become our shareholders, which may make ownership burdensome Non-R.O.C. persons wishing to withdraw shares represented by their ADSs from our ADS program and hold our shares represented by those ADSs are required to appoint a local agent or representative with qualifications set forth by the R.O.C. SFB to open a securities trading account with a local brokerage firm, pay R.O.C. taxes, remit funds and exercise shareholders’ rights. In addition, the withdrawing holders are also required to appoint a custodian bank with qualifications set forth by the Ministry of Finance to hold the securities in safekeeping, make confirmations, settle trades and report all relevant information. Without making this appointment and opening of the accounts, the withdrawing holders would not be able to subsequently sell our shares withdrawn from a depositary receipt facility on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. Under R.O.C. law and regulations, citizens of the P.R.C. are not permitted to hold our shares or withdraw shares represented by ADSs from our ADS program. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court in the R.O.C. We are a company limited by shares incorporated under the R.O.C. Company Act. Most of our assets and most of our directors and executive officers and experts named in the registration statement are located in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments obtained outside Taiwan upon us or such persons in Taiwan. Any judgment obtained against us in any court outside the R.O.C. arising out of or relating to the ADSs will not be enforced by R.O.C. courts if any of the following situations shall apply to such final judgment: • the court rendering the judgment does not have jurisdiction over the subject matter according to R.O.C. law; • the judgment or the court procedures resulting in the judgment is contrary to the public order or good morals of the R.O.C.; • the judgment was rendered by default, except where the summons or order necessary for the commencement of the action was duly served on us within the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment within a reasonable period of time and in accordance with the laws and regulations of such jurisdiction, or with judicial assistance of the R.O.C.; or • the judgments of R.O.C. courts are not recognized and enforceable in the jurisdiction of the court rendering the judgment on a reciprocal basis. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors Based upon the past and projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe we were not a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2014, and do not expect to become one in the future, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we were or were to become a PFIC, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our shares, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we were not a PFIC for 2014 or that we will not be a PFIC in any future taxable year. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations for U.S. Persons — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 18 Table of Contents 