ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) The Company’s pension and other postretirement employee benefits expense and funding levels of pension plans could materially deteriorate or the Company may be unable to generate sufficient excess cash flow to meet increased pension and other postretirement employee benefit obligations. Substantially all of the Company’s employees participate in defined benefit pension plans or retirement/termination indemnity plans. The Company also sponsors other postretirement employee benefit (“OPEB”) plans in the United States and Canada. The Company’s worldwide pension and OPEB obligations exposed the Company to approximately $574 million in unfunded liabilities as of December 31, 2009, of which approximately $388 million and $120 million was attributable to unfunded U.S. and Non-U.S. pension obligations, respectively and $66 million was attributable to unfunded OPEB obligations. The Company has previously experienced declines in interest rates and pension asset values. Future declines in interest rates or the market values of the securities held by the plans, or certain other changes, could materially deteriorate the funded status of the Company’s plans and affect the level and timing of required contributions in 2010 and beyond. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase pension expenses and reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company funds its OPEB obligations on a pay-as-you-go basis; accordingly, the related plans have no assets. The Company is subject to increased OPEB cash outlays and costs due to, among other factors, rising health care costs. Increases in the expected cost of health care in excess of current assumptions could increase actuarially determined liabilities and related OPEB expenses along with future cash outlays. The Company’s assumptions used to calculate pension and OPEB obligations as of the annual measurement date directly impact the expense to be recognized in future periods. While the Company’s management believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect the Company’s pension and OPEB obligations and future expense. For more information on sensitivities to changing assumptions, please see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 14 “Employee Retirement Benefits” to the Company’s consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash to satisfy its obligations may be impacted by the factors discussed herein. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 