Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully each of the following risks and all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference herein. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in the U.S. federal government budgetary priorities and global market conditions that are beyond our control may have a material adverse effect on us. We depend on the U.S. government for a significant portion of our revenues. Competing demands for federal funds could pressure all areas of spending, which will impact the U.S. government budget. Cost cutting, efficiency initiatives, reprioritization and other affordability analysis by the U.S. government and changes in budgetary priorities could adversely impact our Government Segment. Although governments worldwide, including the U.S. government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, we are unable to predict the impact, severity, and duration of these economic events, which could have a material effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on particular levels of U.S. government spending on our communication solutions and our backlog depends in a large part on continued funding by the U.S. government for the programs in which we are involved. These spending levels are not generally correlated with any specific economic cycle, but rather follow the cycle of general public policy and political support for this type of spending. Moreover, although our contracts often contemplate that our services will be performed over a period of several years, the Executive Branch must propose and Congress must approve funds for a given program each government fiscal year and may significantly change - increase, reduce or eliminate - funding for a program. A decrease in DoD and/or Homeland Security expenditures, the elimination or curtailment of a material program in which we are involved, or changes in payment patterns of our customers as a result of changes in U.S. government spending, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. There remains therefore a significant level of uncertainty and lack of detail available to predict specific future government spending on the solutions that we offer. While we are unable to predict the exact impact on our Government Segment, these factors, could in the aggregate have material adverse operational and financial consequences, depending on how the cuts are allocated across the federal government budget. Agencies of the U.S. government have special rights unlike other customers, exposing us to additional risks that could have a material adverse effect on us. Sales to various agencies of the U.S. government accounted for approximately 32% of our 2013 revenue, all of which was reported as Government Segment revenue. Our ability to earn revenue from sales to the U.S. government can be affected by numerous factors outside of our control, including: ·The U.S. government may terminate its contracts it with us. All of the contracts we have with the U.S. government are, by their terms, subject to termination by the U.S. government either for its convenience or in the event of a default by us. In the event of termination of a contract by the U.S. government, we may have little or no recourse. ·The U.S. government may audit and review our costs and performance on their contracts, as well as our accounting and general practices. The costs and prices under these contracts may be subject to adjustment based upon the results of any audits. Future audits that result in the increase in our costs may adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Most of our Government contracts are on a fixed price basis which could negatively impact our profitability. Fixed-price contracts inherently have more risk than flexibly priced contracts. Our operating margin is adversely affected when contract costs that cannot be billed to customers are incurred. While management uses its best judgment to estimate costs associated with fixed-price contracts, future events could result in either upward or downward adjustments to those estimates which could negatively impact our profitability. The increase in contract costs can occur if estimates to complete increase or if initial estimates used for calculating the contract cost were incorrect. The cost estimation process requires significant judgment and expertise. Reasons for cost growth may include unavailability and productivity of labor, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed, the effect of change orders, the availability of materials, interruptions in our supply chain, the effect of any delays in performance, availability and timing of funding from the customer, natural disasters, and the inability to recover any claims included in the estimates to complete. A significant change in cost estimates on one or more programs could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 12 We cannot guarantee that our estimated contract backlog will result in actual revenue. As of December 31, 2013, our estimated contract backlog totaled approximately $1.0 billion, of which $288.1 million was funded. There can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period, or at all, or that any contract included in backlog will be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual receipt and timing of any revenue is subject to various contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The actual receipt of revenue on contracts included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change, the program could be canceled, a contract could be reduced, modified or terminated early, or an option that we had assumed would be exercised not being exercised. Approximately 20% of our funded contract backlog consisted of Government Segment orders and the fluctuations in political and fiscal policy priorities and processes materially influence the funding of our backlog and our ability to convert backlog into revenue. Our estimates are based on our experience under such contracts and similar contracts. However, there can be no assurances that all, or any, of such estimated contract value will be recognized as revenue. We are subject to procurement and other related laws and regulations which carry significant penalties for non-compliance. As a supplier to the U.S. government, we must comply with numerous regulations, including those governing security and contracting practices. In addition, prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. government and subcontracts with other prime contractors are subject to numerous laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these procurement regulations and practices could result in fines being imposed against us or our suspension for a period of time from eligibility for bidding on, or for award of, new government contracts. If we are disqualified as a supplier to government agencies, we would lose most, if not all, of our U.S. government customers and revenues from sales of our products would decline significantly. Among the potential causes for disqualification are violations of various statutes, including those related to procurement integrity, export control, U.S. government security regulations, employment practices, protection of the environment, accuracy of records in the recording of costs, and foreign corruption. The government could investigate and make inquiries of our business practices and conduct audits of contract performance and cost accounting. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. government could adjust our contract-related costs and fees. Depending on the results of these audits and investigations, the government could make claims against us, and if it were to prevail, certain incurred costs would not be recoverable by us. Technological and regulatory change to wireless and next-generation 9-1-1 could affect our future performance. The Federal Communication Commission, or FCC, requires that certain location information be provided to network operators for public safety answering points when a subscriber makes a 9-1-1 call. Technical failures, greater regulation by federal, state or foreign governments or regulatory authorities, time delays or the significant costs associated with developing or installing improved location technology could slow down or stop the deployment of our mobile location products. If deployment of improved location technology is delayed, stopped or never occurs, market acceptance of our products and services may be adversely affected. Because we will rely on some third-party location technology instead of developing all of the technology ourselves, we have little or no influence over its improvement. The technology employed with next-generation 9-1-1 services generally anticipates a migration to internet-protocol (or IP) based communication. Since many companies are proficient in IP-based communication protocols, the barriers to entry to providing next-generation 9-1-1 products and services are lower than exist for the traditional switch-based protocols. If we are unable to develop unique and proprietary solutions that are superior to and more cost effective than other market offers, our 9-1-1 business could get replaced by new market entrants, resulting in material adverse impacts on our overall business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our 9-1-1 business is dependent on state and local governments and the regulatory environment for Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services is developing. Under the FCC’s mandate, wireless carriers are required to provide 9-1-1 services only if state and local governments request the service. As part of a state or local government’s decision to request 9-1-1, they have the authority to develop cost recovery mechanisms. However, cost recovery is no longer a condition to wireless carriers’ obligation to deploy the service. If state and local governments do not widely request that 9-1-1 services be provided or we become subject to significant pressures from wireless carriers with respect to pricing of 9-1-1 services, our 9-1-1 business would be harmed and future growth of our business would be reduced. The FCC has determined that VoIP services are not subject to the same regulatory scheme as traditional wireline and wireless telephone services. If the regulatory environment for VoIP services evolves in a manner other than the way we anticipate, our 9-1-1 business would be significantly harmed and future growth of our business would be significantly reduced. For example, the regulatory scheme for wireless and wireline service providers requires those carriers to allow service providers such as us to have access to 13 certain databases that make the delivery of an 9-1-1 call possible. No such requirements exist for VoIP service providers so carriers could prevent us from continuing to provide VoIP 9-1-1 service by denying us access to the required databases. Failure to meet our contractual obligations, including sufficiently reliable software and successful integration with customer networks, could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. We design, develop and manufacture technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, or materials and components could prevent us from achieving contractual obligations. In addition, our products cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems. Examples of unforeseen problems which could negatively affect revenue and profitability include problems with quality, delivery of subcontractor components or services, and unplanned degradation of product performance. Our operations are subject to government regulations, and failure to comply with them will harm our business. We operate FCC licensed teleports in Manassas, Virginia and the Republic of Kiribati subject to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the FCC Act, and the rules and regulations of the FCC. We cannot guarantee that the FCC will grant renewals when our existing licenses expire, nor are we assured that the FCC will not adopt new or modified technical requirements that will require us to incur expenditures to modify or upgrade our equipment as a condition of retaining our licenses. We are also required to comply with FCC regulations regarding the exposure of humans to radio frequency radiation from our teleports. These regulations, as well as local land use regulations, restrict our freedom to choose where to locate our teleports. The sale of our products outside the U.S. is subject to compliance with the United States Export Administration Regulations and, in certain circumstances, with the International Traffic in Arms Regulations. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, in order to ship our products into and implement our services in some countries, the products must satisfy the technical requirements of that particular country. If we were unable to comply with such requirements with respect to a significant quantity of our products, our sales in those countries could be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may, in the future, be required to seek FCC or other government approval if foreign ownership of our stock exceeds certain specified criteria. Failure to comply with these policies could result in an order to divest the offending foreign ownership, fines, denial of license renewal and/or license revocation proceedings against the licensee by the FCC, or denial of certain contracts from other U.S. government agencies. If wireless carriers do not continue to provide our wireless applications to their subscribers, our business could be harmed. Our success with applications depends on increasing the number of end users that purchase the products and services of our wireless applications business from our wireless carrier partners. Our wireless carrier partners may change the pricing and other terms by which they offer our wireless applications business, which could result in increased end user churn, lower revenue and adverse effects on our business. A portion of our revenue is derived from subscription fees that we receive from our wireless carrier partners for end users who subscribe to our service on a standalone basis or in a bundle with other services. To date, a relatively small number of end users have subscribed for our services in connection with their wireless plans compared to the total number of mobile phone users. The near term success of our wireless applications business depends heavily on achieving significantly increased subscriber adoption of the products and services of our wireless applications business either through stand alone subscriptions to our services or as part of bundles from our existing wireless carrier partners. The success of our wireless applications business also depends on achieving widespread deployment of the products and services of our wireless applications business by attracting and retaining additional wireless carrier partners. The use of the products and services of our wireless applications business will depend on the pricing and quality of those services, subscriber demand for those services, which may vary by market, as well as the level of subscriber turnover experienced by our wireless carrier partners. If subscriber turnover increases more than we anticipate, our financial results could be adversely affected. Competitors offer technology that has functionality similar to ours for free, under different business models. Competition from these free offerings may reduce our revenue and harm our business. If our wireless carrier partners can offer these location-based services to their subscribers for free, they may elect to cease their relationships with us, alter or reduce the manner or extent to which they market or offer our services or require us to substantially reduce our subscription fees or pursue other business strategies that may not prove successful for us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 14 Network failures, disruptions or capacity constraints in our third party data center facilities or in our servers could affect the performance of the products and services of our wireless applications and 9-1-1 business and harm our reputation and our revenue. The products and services of our wireless applications business are provided through a combination of our servers, which we house at third party data centers, and the networks of our wireless carrier partners. The operations of our wireless applications business rely to a significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of the third party data centers we use. Our hosted data centers are currently located in third party facilities located in the Irvine and San Francisco, California areas, and we may use others as required. We also use third party data center facilities in the Phoenix, Arizona area to provide for disaster recovery. Poor performance in or disruptions of the services of our wireless applications business could harm our reputation, delay market acceptance of our services and subject us to liabilities. Our wireless carrier agreements require us to meet operational uptime requirements, excluding scheduled maintenance periods, or be subjected to penalties. If we are unable to meet these requirements, our wireless carrier partners could terminate our agreements or we may be required to refund a portion of monthly subscriptions fees they have paid us. Our operating results could be adversely affected by interruption of our data delivery services, system failure or production interruptions. Our 9-1-1, hosted location-based services and satellite teleport services operations depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment and systems in effective working order, and to protect our systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, sabotage, unauthorized access to our system or similar events. Although all of our mission-critical systems and equipment are designed with built-in redundancy and security, any unanticipated interruption or delay in our operations or breach of security could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for any losses that may occur in the event of a system failure or a breach of security. Insurance may not be available to us at all or, if available, may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Our past and future acquisitions of companies or technologies could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value or adversely affect operating results or the market price of our Class A common stock. We have made several acquisitions and intend to continue to selectively consider acquisitions of companies and technologies in order to increase the scale and scope of our operations, market presence, products, services and customer base. Any acquisitions, strategic alliances or investments we may pursue in the future will have a continuing, significant impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of the companies or assets that we acquire or invest in may be less than the amount we paid if there is a decline of their position in the respective markets they serve or a decline in general of the markets they serve. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions and investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Acquisitions involve risks including: ·properly evaluating the technology; ·accurately forecasting the financial impact of the transaction, including accounting charges and transaction expenses; ·integrating and retaining personnel; ·retaining and cross-selling to acquired customers; ·combining potentially different corporate cultures; ·the potential of significant goodwill and intangibles write-offs in the future in the event that an acquisition or investment does not meet expectations; and ·effectively integrating products and services, and research and development, sales and marketing and support operations. If we fail to do any of these, we may suffer losses or incur impairment charges, our management may be distracted from day-to-day operations and the market price of our Class A common stock may be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we consummate future acquisitions using our equity securities or convertible notes, existing shareholders may be diluted which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. The companies and business units we have acquired or invested in or may acquire or invest in are subject to each of the business risks we describe in this section, and if they incur any of these risks the businesses may not be as valuable as the amount we paid. Further, we cannot guarantee that we will realize the benefits or strategic objectives we are seeking to obtain by acquiring or investing in these companies. 15 New entrants and the introduction of other distribution models in the location- based services market may harm our competitive position. New entrants seeking to gain market share by introducing new technology and new products may make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services and could create increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share or expected market share, any of which may significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Consumers can now download and provision applications from individual provider websites and select from a menu of applications through the Apple iTunes App Store, the Blackberry App World, the Android Market, and other application aggregators. Applications from other LBS providers may be preloaded on mobile devices by OEMs or offered by OEMs directly. Increased competition from providers of location-based services which do not rely on a wireless carrier may result in fewer wireless carrier subscribers electing to purchase their wireless carrier’s branded location-based services, which could harm our business and revenue. In addition, these location-based services may be offered for free or on a onetime fee basis, which could force us to reduce monthly subscription fees or migrate to a onetime fee model to remain competitive. We may also lose end users or face erosion in our average revenue per user if these competitors deliver their products without charge to the consumer by generating revenue from advertising or as part of other applications or services. We rely on third party data and content and some licenses to other parties’ technology to provide the services of our wireless applications business, and if we were unable to obtain content and licenses at reasonable prices, or at all, our gross margins and our ability to provide the services of our wireless applications business would be harmed. Our wireless applications business relies on third party data and content to provide those services including map data, points of interest data, traffic information, gas prices, theater, event, and weather information. If our suppliers of this data or content were to enter into exclusive relationships with other providers of location-based services or were to discontinue providing such information and we were unable to replace them cost effectively, or at all, our ability to provide the services of our wireless applications business would be harmed. Our gross margins may also be affected if the cost of third party data and content increases substantially. We obtain map data from companies owned by current and potential competitors, who may act in a manner that is not in our best interest. We may not be able to upgrade our location-based services platform to support certain advanced features and functionality without obtaining technology licenses from third parties. Obtaining these licenses may be costly and may delay the introduction of such features and functionality, and these licenses may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. The inability to offer advanced features or functionality, or a delay in our ability to upgrade our location-based services platform, may adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services of our wireless applications business, consequently, harm our business. Some of our research and development operations are conducted in China, India, and Australia, and our ability to introduce new services and support our existing services cost effectively depend on our ability to manage those remote development sites successfully. Our success depends on our ability to enhance our current services and develop new services and products rapidly and cost effectively. We currently have research and development employees in China and Australia, and contractors in India. Managing product development operations that are remote from our U.S. headquarters is difficult and we may not be able to manage these remote centers successfully. We could incur unexpected costs or delays in product development that could impair our ability to meet market windows or cause it to forego certain new product opportunities. In addition, if our carrier customers become adverse to introducing products into their networks that have been developed in these remote centers, the market for our products could be adversely affected. Our research and development investments may not lead to successful new products, services or enhancements. We will continue to invest in research and development for the introduction of new and enhanced products and services designed to improve the capacity, data processing rates and features. We must also continue to develop new features and to improve functionality of our software. Research and development in our industry is complex, expensive and uncertain. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. If we continue to expend a significant amount of resources on research and development, but our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of product and service enhancements that are competitive in the marketplace, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively impacted. We could incur substantial costs from product liability claims relating to our software. Our agreements with customers may require us to indemnify customers for our own acts of negligence and non-performance. Product liability and other forms of insurance are expensive and may not be available in the future. We cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or obtain insurance coverage at acceptable costs or in sufficient amounts or that our insurer will not disclaim coverage 16 as to a future claim. A product liability or similar claim may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our revenue may decline if we fail to retain our largest customers for all of the deliverables that we sell to them, and if we fail to maintain or expand our relationships with strategic partners and indirect distribution channels our license revenues could decline. Our growth depends on maintaining relationships with our major customers and on developing other customers and distribution channels. If our largest customers reduce their expenditures for marketing the services for which we provide technology, change their plans to eliminate our services, price our products and services at a level that makes them less attractive, or offer and promote competing products and services, in lieu of, or to a greater degree than, our products and services, our revenue would be materially reduced and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our growth also depends on maintaining relationships with distribution channels for Nextgen 9-1-1 solutions. The loss of these relationships would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Government regulation of the mobile industry is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our business and operating results. As the mobile industry continues to evolve, we believe greater regulation by federal, state or foreign governments or regulatory authorities is likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information, could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing our ability to utilize this information for the purpose of continued improvement of the overall mobile subscriber experience. In addition, any regulation of the requirement to treat all content and application provider services the same over the mobile Internet, sometimes referred to as net neutrality regulation, could reduce our customers’ ability to make full use of the value of our services. Growing market acceptance of “open source” software could have a negative impact on us. We have incorporated some types of open source software into our products, allowing us to enhance certain solutions without incurring substantial additional research and development costs. Thus far, we have encountered no unanticipated material problems arising from our use of open source software. However, as the use of open source software becomes more widespread, certain open source technology could become competitive with our proprietary technology, which could cause sales of our products to decline or force us to reduce the fees we charge for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release our proprietary source code. Open source license terms may be ambiguous and many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our products and client applications, discontinue the sale of our products or services in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Because our solutions are sold internationally, we are subject to risks of conducting business in foreign countries. We believe our revenue will increasingly include business in foreign countries, and we will be subject to the social, political and economic risks of conducting business in foreign countries. Laws and regulations for foreign business include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and our international expansion efforts. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. Some international government customers may require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. The contracts may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements. Other risks include: 17 ·our inability to adapt our products and services to local business practices, customs and mobile user preferences; ·the costs of adapting our product and service offerings for foreign markets and compliance with applicable laws and regulations; ·our inability to locate qualified local employees, partners and suppliers; ·reduced protection of intellectual property rights; ·changes in regulatory requirements which could restrict our ability to deliver services to our international customers, including the addition of a country to the list of sanctioned countries under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act or similar legislation; ·general geopolitical risks, such as political and economic instability and changes in diplomatic and trade relations; and ·unpredictable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows by diverting time and money toward addressing them or by reducing or eliminating sales in such foreign countries. Because some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do, we could lose customers and market share. Our business is highly competitive. Several of our potential competitors are substantially larger than we are and have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In particular, larger competitors have certain advantages over us which could cause us to lose customers and impede our ability to attract new customers, including: larger bases of financial, technical, marketing, personnel and other resources; more established relationships with wireless carriers and government customers; more funds to deploy products and services; and the ability to lower prices (or not charge any price) of competitive products and services because they are selling larger volumes. While we characterize some of our services revenue as being “recurring” there is no guarantee that we will actually achieve this revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from long-term customer contracts for month-to-month fees. While we currently believe that these revenue streams will continue, renegotiation of the contract terms, early termination or non-renewal of material contracts could cause our recurring revenues to be lower than expected, and growth depends on maintaining relationships with these important customers and on developing other customers and distribution channels. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk and there can be no assurance that we will manage or mitigate this risk effectively.We are exposed to many different industries, counterparties, and agreements, and regularly interact with counterparties in various industries. The insolvency or other inability of a significant counterparty or partner, including a counterparty to a significant counterparty, to perform its obligations under an agreement or transaction, including without limitation, as a result of the rejection of an agreement or transaction by a counterparty in bankruptcy proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Examples of our counterparty risks include counterparties to our credit agreement, large customers and suppliers, and partners on major procurements.The loss of key personnel or inability to attract and retain personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel, particularly in sales and marketing and research and development. If we are unable to do so, our business could be harmed. Our future success also depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales, engineering and technical staff. The loss of the services of our executive officers and other key personnel could harm our operations. We maintain key person life insurance on certain of our executive officers. We would be harmed if one or more of our officers or key employees decided to join a competitor or if we failed to attract qualified personnel. Our ability to attract qualified personnel may be adversely affected by a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. In the event of a decline in the price of our Class A common stock, the retention value of stock options will decline and our employees may choose not to remain with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our accounting policies and methods for reporting of our financial position and results of operations require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial position and results of operations. We have identified several accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of our financial position and results of 18 operations because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions For example, we assess goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, or sooner should there be an indicator of impairment. We periodically analyze whether any such indicators of impairment exist, such as a sustained significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, unanticipated competition, and/or slower growth rate, among others. The impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgments determined as of that date. Changes in market conditions may indicate a potential future impairment of recorded goodwill. If goodwill becomes impaired, we would record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. Because of the uncertainty of the estimates, judgments and assumptions associated with our accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurances that we will not make subsequent significant adjustments to our consolidated financial statements.Industry Risks Because the wireless data industry is a rapidly evolving market, our product and service offerings could become obsolete unless we respond effectively and on a timely basis to rapid technological changes. The successful execution of our business strategy is contingent upon wireless network operators launching and maintaining mobile location services, our ability to maintain a technically skilled development and engineering team, our ability to create new network software products and adapt our existing products to rapidly changing technologies, industry standards and customer needs. As a result of the complexities inherent in our product offerings, new technologies may require long development and testing periods. Additionally, new products may not achieve market acceptance or our competitors could develop alternative technologies that gain broader market acceptance than our products. If we are unable to develop and introduce technologically advanced products that respond to evolving industry standards and customer needs, or if we are unable to complete the development and introduction of these products on a timely and cost effective basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows or could result in our technology becoming obsolete. Wireless network operator consolidating, future business combinations could result in a loss of revenue for our business. The telecommunications industry generally is currently undergoing a consolidation phase. Many of our customers, specifically wireless carrier customers of our Commercial Segment, have or may become the target of acquisitions. If the number of our customers is significantly reduced as a result of this consolidation trend, or if the resulting companies do not utilize our product offerings, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Concerns about personal privacy and commercial solicitation may limit the growth of mobile location-based services and change the business models appropriate for service delivery, affecting our business opportunities. In order for mobile location products and services to function properly, wireless carriers must locate their subscribers and store information on each subscriber’s location. Although data regarding the location of the wireless user resides only on the wireless carrier’s systems, users may not feel comfortable with the idea that the wireless carrier knows and can track their location. Carriers will need to obtain subscribers’ permission to gather and use the subscribers’ personal information, or they may not be able to provide customized mobile location services which those subscribers might otherwise desire. If subscribers view mobile location services as an annoyance or a threat to their privacy, that could reduce demand for our products and services and have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Technology Risks Because our software may contain defects or errors, and our hardware products may incorporate defective components, our sales could decrease if these defects or errors adversely affect our reputation or delays shipments of our products. The software products that we develop are complex and must meet the stringent technical requirements of our customers. Our hardware products are equally complex and integrate a wide variety of components from different vendors. We must quickly develop new products and product enhancements to keep pace with the rapidly changing software and telecommunications markets in which we operate. Products as complex as ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products may not be error or defect free after delivery to customers, which could damage our reputation, cause revenue losses, result in the rejection of our products or services, divert development resources and increase service and warranty costs, each of which could have a serious harmful effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 19 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or are sued by third parties for infringing upon intellectual property rights, we may incur substantial costs. Our success and competitive position depends in large part upon our ability to develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark, trade secret laws, confidentiality provisions and various other contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights, but these legal means provide only limited protection. Although a number of patents have been issued to us and we have obtained a number of other patents as a result of our acquisitions, we cannot assure you that our issued patents will be upheld if challenged by another party. Additionally, with respect to any patent applications which we have filed, we cannot assure you that any patents will issue as a result of these applications. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it, and we may be exposed to expensive litigation or risk jeopardizing our competitive position. Similarly, some third parties have claimed and others could claim that our existing and future products or services infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Claims like these could require us to enter into costly royalty arrangements or cause us to lose the right to use critical technology. Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights is also subject to the terms of future government contracts. We cannot assure you that the federal government will not demand greater intellectual property rights or restrict our ability to disseminate intellectual property. We are also a member of standards-setting organizations and have agreed to license some of our intellectual property to other members on fair and reasonable terms to the extent that the license is required to develop non-infringing products. Pursuing infringers of our patents and other intellectual property rights can be costly. Pursuing infringers of our proprietary rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to pursue infringers could result in our competitors utilizing our technology and offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of a competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Protecting our know-how is difficult especially after our employees or those of our third party contract service providers end their employment or engagement. Attempts may be made to copy or reverse-engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent the misappropriation of our technology or prevent others from developing similar technology. Furthermore, policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. The costs and diversion of resources could significantly harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may not receive any return on the resources expended to create the intellectual property or generate any competitive advantage based on it. Third parties may claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights and we could be prevented from selling our products, or suffer significant litigation expense, even if these claims have no merit, and our customers also could demand indemnification for such claims. Our competitive position is driven in part by our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Third parties, however, may claim that we, our products, operations or any products or technology we obtain from other parties are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our assets, technology and products. From time to time we receive letters from third parties that allege we are infringing their intellectual property and asking us to license such intellectual property. We review the merits of each such letter and respond as we deem appropriate. From time to time our customers are parties to allegations of intellectual property infringement claims based on solutions which incorporate our products and services, which may lead to demands from our customers to indemnify them for costs in defending those allegations. Any litigation regarding patents, trademarks, copyrights or intellectual property rights, even those without merit, and the related indemnification demands of our customers, can be costly and time consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from operating our business. The complexity of the technology involved and inherent uncertainty and cost of intellectual property litigation increases our risks. If any third party has a meritorious or successful claim that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or enter into licensing arrangements with third parties, which may be costly or impractical. This also may require us to stop selling our products as currently engineered, which could harm our competitive position. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions that prevent the further development and sale of certain of our products or services and may result in a material loss of revenue. 20 The measures we have implemented to secure information we collect and store may be breached, which could cause us to breach agreements with our partners and expose us to potential investigation and penalties by authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. We take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access despite our efforts. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed under existing and proposed laws. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. We also may be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. If there is a security breach or if there is an inappropriate disclosure of any of these types of information, we could be exposed to investigations, litigation, fines and penalties. Remediation of and liability for loss or misappropriation of end user or employee personal information could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Even if we were not held liable for such event, a security breach or inappropriate disclosure of personal, private or confidential information could harm our reputation and our relationships with current and potential customers and end users. Even the perception of a security risk could inhibit market acceptance of our products and services. We may be required to invest additional resources to protect against damages caused by any actual or perceived disruptions of our services. We may also be required to provide information about the location of an end user’s mobile device to government authorities, which could result in public perception that we are providing the government with intelligence information and deter some end users from using our services. Any of these developments could harm our business. Because our systems may be vulnerable to systems failures and security risks, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of these problems. We provide for the delivery of information and content to and from wireless devices in a prompt and timely manner. Any systems failure that causes a disruption in our ability to facilitate the transmission of information to these wireless devices could result in delays in end users receiving this information and cause us to lose customers. Our systems could experience such failures as a result of unauthorized access by hackers, computer viruses, hardware or software failures, power or telecommunications failures and other accidental or intentional actions which could disrupt our systems. We may incur significant costs to prevent such systems disruptions. The wireless data services provided by our Commercial Segment are dependent on real-time, continuous feeds from map and traffic data vendors and others. The ability of our subscribers to receive critical location and business information requires timely and uninterrupted connections with our wireless network carriers. Any disruption from our satellite feeds or backup landline feeds could result in delays in our subscribers’ ability to receive information. We cannot be sure that our systems will operate appropriately if we experience hardware or software failure, intentional disruptions of service by third parties, an act of God or an act of war. A failure in our systems could cause delays in transmitting data, and as a result we may lose customers or face litigation that could involve material costs and distract management from operating our business. If wireless handsets pose health and safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations and demand for our products and services may decrease. Media reports have suggested that certain radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless handsets, which would decrease demand for our services. In recent years, the FCC and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and other medical devices. There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while driving. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to market and sell our products and services. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The price of our Class A common stock historically has been volatile. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell your Class A common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. The market price for our Class A common stock has experienced significant volatility. This volatility may affect the price at which you could sell the Class A common stock and the sale of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock. Our stock price is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and 21 volume fluctuations in response to market and other factors, including the other factors discussed in these risk factors; variations in our quarterly operating results from our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors; downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates; and announcement by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments. A significant percentage of our common stock is beneficially owned by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, and he can exert significant influence over us. We have two classes of common stock: Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Holders of Class A common stock generally have the same rights as holders of Class B common stock, except that holders of Class A common stock have one vote per share while holders of Class B common stock have three votes per share. As of December 31, 2013, Maurice B. Tosé, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned 4,997,769 shares of our Class B common stock and 3,113,335 shares of our Class A common stock. Therefore, as of that date, in the aggregate, Mr. Tosé beneficially owned shares representing approximately 26% of our total voting power, assuming no conversion or exercise of issued and outstanding convertible or exchangeable securities held by our other shareholders or holders of the notes. Mr. Tosé can exert significant influence over us through his ability to influence the outcome of elections of directors, amendments to our charter and by-laws and other actions requiring shareholder action, including mergers, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions. Mr. Tosé may also be able to deter or prevent a change of control regardless of whether holders of Class A common stock might benefit financially from such a transaction. If our business does not generate sufficient cash to fund our operations and we are unable to obtain additional capital when needed, we may not be able to continue to grow our business. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, and our bank line of credit, coupled with the funds anticipated to be generated from operations will be sufficient to finance our operations for at least the next twelve months. However, unanticipated events could cause us to fall short of our capital requirements. In addition, such unanticipated events could cause us to violate our bank credit covenants, enabling bank remedies provided in their agreement with us making it necessary for us to return to the public markets or to establish new credit facilities or raise capital in private transactions in order to meet our capital requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our bank credit facility contains covenants requiring us to maintain fixed charge coverage and leverage ratios; as well as other restrictive covenants. The agreement also provides subjective events of default based upon (i) no material adverse change in the business, operations, or condition (financial or otherwise) of our Company occur, or (ii) no material impairment of the prospect of repayment of the Company’s obligations under the bank credit agreement; or (iii) no material impairment of perfection or priority of the lenders security interests in the collateral under the bank credit agreement. If our performance does not result in compliance with any of the restrictive covenants, and our lenders exercise their rights under the subjective acceleration clause referred to above, we would seek to further modify our financing arrangements, but there can be no assurance that our debt holders would not exercise their rights and remedies under their agreements with us, including declaring all outstanding debt due and payable. If we are not in compliance with one or more of our covenants which if not complied with could result in an event of default under our line of credit or term loan, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive such non-compliance. In such an event, we would be prohibited from drawing funds against the line of credit and our indebtedness under the line of credit and term loan could be accelerated. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, or stock price. Our short-term investments are subject to market fluctuations which may affect our liquidity. Although we have not experienced any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments, declines in the market values of these investments in the future could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Historically, we have invested in AAA rated money market funds meeting certain criteria. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be directly or indirectly impacted by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults that have affected various sectors of the financial markets causing credit and liquidity issues. If an issuer defaults on its obligations, or its credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, losses or other factors, the impact on liquidity could decline and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Variations in quarterly operating results due to factors such as changes in demand for our products and changes in our mix of revenues and costs may cause our Class A common stock price to decline. Our revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and are likely to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter. For example, 2013 systems revenue was lower in the fourth quarter of the year compared to 2012 systems revenue was lower in the first quarter. We generally derive a significant portion of wireless carrier systems revenue in our Commercial Segment from initial license fees. The initial license fees that we receive in a particular quarter may vary significantly. As systems projects begin and end, quarterly results may vary. We therefore believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indication of our future 22 performance, and you should not rely on them to predict our future performance or the future performance of our Class A common stock. If our operating results in future quarters fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors, the market price of our stock may fall. Factors that have either caused our results to fluctuate in the past or that are likely to do so in the future include: ·changes in our relationships with wireless carriers, the U.S. government or other customers; ·timing and success of introduction of new products and services and our wireless carrier partners’ marketing expenditures; ·changes in pricing policies and product offerings by us or our competitors; ·changes in projected profitability of acquired assets requiring the write down of the value of the goodwill reflected on our balance sheet; ·loss of subscribers by our wireless carrier partners or a reduction in the number of subscribers to plans that include our services; ·the timing and quality of information we receive from our wireless carrier partners; ·the timing and success of new mobile phone introductions by our wireless carrier partners; ·our ability to attract new end users; ·the extent of any interruption in our services; ·costs associated with advertising, marketing and promotional efforts to acquire new customers; ·capital expenditures and other costs and expenses related to improving our business, expanding operations and adapting to new technologies and changes in consumer preferences; and ·our lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle. We may not have, and may not have the ability to raise, the funds necessary to repurchase our currently outstanding Convertible Senior Notes upon a fundamental change, as required by the indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes.Following a fundamental change as described in the indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes, holders of those notes may require us to repurchase their notes for cash. A fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, and result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then existing indebtedness. We cannot provide any assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any notes tendered by holders for repurchase upon a fundamental change. In addition, restrictions in our then-existing credit facilities or other indebtedness, if any, may not allow us to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes. The failure of us to repurchase the notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to the Convertible Senior Notes which could in turn constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows.Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market or issuances of securities convertible into our Class A common stock and hedging activities could lower the market price for our Class A common stock and adversely impact the trading price of the notes. As of December 31, 2013, we had outstanding approximately 56 million shares of our Class A common stock and options to purchase approximately 17 million shares of our Class A common stock. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our Class A common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options and upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Our Class A common stock may also be issued upon conversion of our Class B common stock, which is convertible into our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. As of December 31, 2013, we had 5 million shares of Class B common stock outstanding. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our Class A common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of Class A common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the Convertible Notes and the market price of our Class A common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. 23 The fundamental change purchase feature of the Convertible Senior Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to purchase our company. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes require us to purchase them for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our Company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the Convertible Senior Notes. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. Our governing corporate documents and Maryland law contain certain anti-takeover provisions that could prevent a change of control that may be favorable to shareholders. We are a Maryland corporation. Anti-takeover provisions of Maryland law and provisions contained in our charter and by-laws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to shareholders. These provisions include the following: ·authorization of the board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock; ·prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors; ·our classified board of directors; ·limitation of the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; ·prohibition on shareholders acting without a meeting other than through unanimous written consent; ·supermajority voting requirement on various charter and by-law provisions; and ·establishment of advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, depriving shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for Class A common stock. These provisions could therefore materially adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 