ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) The Company could be adversely impacted by environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations governing emissions to air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials; and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Currently, environmental costs with respect to former, existing or subsequently acquired operations are not material, but there is no assurance that the Company will not be adversely impacted by such costs, liabilities or claims in the future either under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact its business. The Company owns significant intellectual property, including a large number of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and is involved in numerous licensing arrangements. The Company’s intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining its competitive position in a number of the markets served. Developments or assertions by or against the Company relating to intellectual property rights could materially impact the business. Significant technological developments by others also could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s business and results of operations could be affected adversely by terrorism. Terrorist-sponsored attacks, both foreign and domestic, could have adverse effects on the Company’s business and results of operations. These attacks could accelerate or exacerbate other automotive industry risks such as those described above and also have the potential to interfere with the Company’s business by disrupting supply chains and the delivery of products to customers. A failure of the Company’s internal controls could adversely affect the Company’s ability to report its financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. As a result, the Company’s business, operating results and liquidity could be harmed. Because of the inherent limitations of any system of internal control, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud, even an effective system of internal control may not prevent or detect all misstatements. In the event of an internal control failure, the Company’s ability to report its financial results on a timely and accurate basis could be adversely impacted, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in its financial reports or have a material adverse affect on the Company’s ability to operate its business or access sources of liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 