ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS — (Continued) Management has concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 because of the existence of a material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The failure to remediate this material weakness, or any control deficiencies that the Company may discover in the future, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to report its financial condition and results of operations accurately and on a timely basis. As a result, our business, operating results and liquidity could be harmed. As disclosed in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K/ A for 2004 and in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the first three quarters of 2005, management’s assessment of the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting identified several material weaknesses. These material weaknesses led to the restatement of the Company’s previously issued consolidated financial statements for fiscal years 2002 through 2004 and resulted in an adverse opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Although the Company made progress in executing its remediation plans during 2005, including the remediation of two material weaknesses, as of December 31, 2005, management has concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting due to a remaining material weakness in internal controls. Please see Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” for more information regarding the material weakness. If the Company is unable to remediate the remaining material weakness, and other control deficiencies currently identified or identified in the future, and otherwise continue to improve its internal control, the Company’s ability to report its financial results on a timely and accurate basis could be adversely affected, which could result in a loss of investor confidence in its financial reports or have a material adverse affect on the Company’s ability to operate our business or access sources of liquidity. Furthermore, because of the inherent limitations of any system of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud, even effective internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 