Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 16 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Risks related to our business We operate internationally and are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties. We currently have operations in the U.S., U.K. and the Netherlands. We may expand our operations to other countries or regions. International operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • the risk of war, acts of terrorism, revolution, border disputes, expropriation, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; • laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and • the possibility of being subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the U.S. The exploration, production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated by governmental bodies. Applicable legislation is under constant review for amendment or expansion. These efforts frequently result in an increase in the regulatory burden on companies in our industry and consequently an increase in the cost of doing business and decrease in profitability. Numerous governmental departments and agencies are authorized to, and have, issued rules and regulations imposing additional burdens on the oil and gas industry that often are costly to comply with and carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Production operations are affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the petroleum industry, by constantly changing administrative regulations and possible interruptions or termination by government authorities. Oil and gas mineral rights may be held by individuals, corporations or governments having jurisdiction over the area in which such mineral rights are located. As a general rule, parties holding such mineral rights grant licenses or leases to third parties to facilitate the exploration and development of these mineral rights. The terms of the leases and licenses are generally established to require timely development. Notwithstanding the ownership of mineral rights, the government of the jurisdiction in which mineral rights are located generally retains authority over the manner of development of those rights. 17 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Future economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets may materially adversely impact our operating results, which could hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. The U.S. and other world economies are slowly recovering from a recession which began in 2008 and extended into 2009. Growth has resumed, but is modest. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced in recent years. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels. A lower future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand growth for our crude oil and natural gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability and may adversely affect our ability to obtain funding for our projects. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current senior bank facility because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) our borrowing base under our current senior bank facility is redetermined at least twice per year and was reduced twice in 2009 as a result of lower oil or gas prices, declines in reserves, sales of assets and lending requirements or regulations. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms or at all. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, or we may be unable to implement our capital program, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and gas prices would reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Oil and gas prices increased to, and then declined significantly from, historical highs in 2008 and may fluctuate and decline significantly in the near future. Prices for oil and gas fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • global supply of oil and gas; • level of consumer product demand; • technological advances affecting oil and gas consumption; • global economic conditions; • price and availability of alternative fuels; 18 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • governmental regulations and taxation; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and gas-producing countries; • weather conditions; • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipeline and other transportation facilities; and • the impact of energy conservation efforts. Lower oil and gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but significant or extended price declines may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require us to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to replace our production and our future rate of growth. In addition, we may, from time to time, enter into long-term contracts based upon our reasoned expectations for commodity price levels. If commodity prices subsequently decrease significantly for a sustained period, we may be unable to perform our obligations or otherwise breach the contract and be liable for damages. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating, obtaining and developing properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that have longer operating histories in our areas of operation and employ superior financial resources which allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources and which better enable them to acquire and develop the prospects that they have identified. We also actively compete with other companies when acquiring new licenses or oil and gas properties. Our relatively small size could adversely affect our ability to obtain new prospects and opportunities. Specifically, competitors with greater resources than our own have certain advantages that are particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for producing oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. These competitors may also be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling or downturns in the economy, including decreases in the price of commodities as experienced in 2008 and 2009. Larger competitors may also be able to absorb the burden of any changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would also adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have been operating for a much longer time and have demonstrated the ability to operate through industry cycles. 19 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation We are dependent on our executive officers and need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Our future success depends in large part on the service of our executive officers. The loss of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to retain their services. Further, we do not maintain key-person life insurance on any executive officers. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical and other management personnel who are essential for the identification and development of our prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain key personnel, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our use of derivative transactions may limit future revenues from price increases and involves the risk that our counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. To manage our exposure to price or interest rate risk with our production, we routinely enter into commodity derivative contracts. The goal of these derivative contracts is to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. Although the use of derivative contracts limits the downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from price increases. In addition, derivative contracts may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or gas prices. Derivative contracts also involve the risk that counterparties, which generally are financial institutions, may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. If any of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the derivative contracts or seek bankruptcy protection it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. In addition, in the current economic environment and tight financial markets, the risk of a counterparty default is heightened and it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in future derivative transactions, which could result in greater concentration of our exposure to any one counterparty or a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. Risks related to executing our strategy and operations To maintain and grow our production and cash flow, we must continue to develop and produce existing reserves and discover or acquire new oil and gas reserves to develop and produce. Our future oil and gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Producing oil and gas reserves are generally characterized by 20 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our reserves will decline unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. We accomplish this through successful drilling programs and the acquisition of properties. However, we may be unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost or at all. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. If we are unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our production rates will decline even if we drill the undeveloped locations that were included in our estimated proved reserves. Our future oil and gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are dependent on our success in economically finding or acquiring new reserves and efficiently developing our existing reserves. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition we complete is subject to substantial risks that could impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions of new properties or businesses that expand our current asset base and potentially offer unexploited reserve potential. Our growth strategy following the full development of our existing properties could be impeded if we are unable to acquire additional interests in oil and gas prospects on a profitable basis. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: • the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the interests in oil and gas prospects, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; • the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity we receive is inadequate; • the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; • the impact on our liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets. All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even though we perform a review of the properties we seek to acquire that we believe is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. As a result, among other risks, our initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely impact the desired benefits of the acquisition. 21 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Our expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing. We have identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and other drilling and enhanced recovery activities. These drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of our future drilling plans. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, third-party operators, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, we cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet our expectations for success. As such, our actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our drilling projects are based in part on seismic data, which cannot ensure the commercial success of the project. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often uncertain. Even when used and properly interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. Seismic data do not enable an interpreter to conclusively determine whether hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of seismic and other advanced technologies may require greater predrilling expenditures than other drilling strategies. Because of these factors, we could incur losses as a result of exploratory drilling expenditures. Poor results from drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, ability to replace reserves and results of operations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our assets will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic factors. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of these data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. 22 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation A significant portion of our total estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2009 were undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed. At December 31, 2009, approximately 84 percent of our total estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves we may be required to write-off these reserves. Any such write-offs of our reserves could reduce our ability to borrow money and could reduce the value of our securities. Our offshore operations involve special risks that could increase our cost of operations and adversely affect our ability to produce oil and gas. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. Offshore drilling in the North Sea generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Moreover, offshore projects often lack proximity to the physical and oilfield service infrastructure, necessitating significant capital investment in subsea flow line infrastructure. Subsea tieback production systems require substantial time and the use of advanced and very sophisticated installation equipment supported by remotely operated vehicles. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant cost overruns. As a result, a significant amount of time and capital must be invested before we can market the associated oil or gas, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some offshore reserve discoveries may never be produced economically. We have recently commenced exploration, production and development operations in the United States, and as a result, our ability to successfully achieve our goals is subject to greater risk and uncertainty. In 2008, we began to pursue exploration, production and development activities in the U.S. Moreover, we did not have a significant U.S. presence in our assets and operations until late 2009. Because we have limited production history in this geographic region and do not have extensive experience in unconventional resource plays, we are less able to use past operational results to help predict future results. Our lack of operational experience in the U.S. may result in our not being able to fully execute our expected drilling programs in this region, and the return on investment from our United States operations may not be as attractive as expected. We cannot assure you that our efforts in the U.S. will be successful, or if successful will achieve the resource potential levels that we currently anticipate or achieve the anticipated economic returns based on our current financial models. 23 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation We will not be the operator of all of the interests we own or acquire, and therefore we may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves in respect of such interests. A significant number of our interests, including all of our producing fields, are currently operated by third parties. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of these interests or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of expected returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside our control, including: • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • the timing and amount of their capital expenditures; • the rate of production of the reserves; • approval of other participants to drill wells and implement other work programs; • the availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; and • selection of technology. Our inability to control the development efforts, costs and timing on the interests where we are not the operator could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, results of operations and business prospects. Actual production could differ significantly from forecasts. From time to time we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production decline rates from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely impacted. Downturns in commodity prices could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our insurance may not protect us against business and operating risks, including an operator of a prospect in which we participate failing to maintain or obtain adequate insurance. Oil and gas operations are subject to particular hazards incident to the drilling and production of oil and gas, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We maintain insurance for some, but not 24 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently operate all of our oil and gas properties. In the projects in which we own non-operating interests, the operator may maintain insurance of various types to cover our operations with policy limits and retention liability customary in the industry. The occurrence of a significant adverse event that is not fully covered by insurance could result in the loss of our total investment in a particular prospect and additional liability for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and prospects. The cost of decommissioning is uncertain. We expect to incur obligations to abandon and decommission certain structures associated with our producing properties. To date, the industry has little experience of removing oil and gas structures from the North Sea. Few of the structures in the North Sea have been removed. Certain groups have been established to study issues relating to decommissioning and abandonment and how the costs will be borne. Because experience is limited, we cannot precisely predict the costs of any future decommissions for which we might become obligated. If actual decommission or abandonment costs exceed our estimates or reserves to satisfy such obligations, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks related to environmental and other regulations We are subject to environmental regulations that can have a significant impact on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of national, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties as well as potential orders suspending or terminating our rights to operate. Some environmental laws to which we are subject to provide for strict liability for pollution damages, rendering a person liable without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances such as oil and gas related products. Aquatic environments in which we operate are often particularly sensitive to environmental impacts, which may expose us to greater potential liability than that associated with exploration, development and production at many onshore locations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly requirements for oil and gas exploration and production activities could require us, as well as others in our industry, to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance which could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to comply with future laws and regulations to the same extent that we 25 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation believe we have in the past. Similarly, we cannot always precisely predict the potential impact of environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would restrict our operations in any area. Current and future environmental regulations, including restrictions on greenhouse gases due to concerns about climate change, could reduce the demand for our products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if this were to occur. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to liability arising out of the conduct of operations or conditions caused by others, or for activities that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Such liabilities can be significant, and if imposed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Governmental regulations to which we are subject could expose us to significant fines and/or penalties and our cost of compliance with such regulations could be substantial. Oil and gas exploration, development and production are subject to various types of regulation by local, state and national agencies. Regulations and laws affecting the oil and gas industry are comprehensive and under constant review for amendment and expansion. These regulations and laws carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, adversely affects our profitability. In addition, competitive conditions may be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and/or regulation considered from time to time by the governments and/or agencies thereof. Federal legislation and state legislative regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays as well as adversely affect our support services. The U.S. Congress is currently considering two companions bills for the “Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act,” or “FRAC Act.” The bills would repeal an exemption in the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SWDA”) for the underground injection of hydraulic fracturing fluids near drinking water sources. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process for the completion of natural gas, and to a lesser extent, oil wells in shale formations, and involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of the FRAC Act have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. If enacted, the FRAC Act could result in additional regulatory burdens such as permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes requiring the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory authorities, who would then make such information publicly available. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect 26 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation groundwater. In addition, various state and local governments are considering increased regulatory oversight of hydraulic fracturing through additional permit requirements, operational restrictions, and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain environmentally sensitive areas such as watersheds. The adoption of the FRAC Act or any other federal or state laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells in shale formations, increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the U.S. beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009,” or “ACESA,” which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances authorizing emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support for legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. At the state level, more than one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. 27 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation The adoption of derivatives legislation by the U.S. Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. ACESA contains provisions that would prohibit private energy commodity derivative and hedging transactions. ACESA would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, and to mandate clearance of such derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations. Under ACESA, the CFTC’s expanded authority over energy derivatives would terminate upon the adoption of general legislation covering derivative regulatory reform. The CFTC is considering whether to set limits on trading and positions in commodities with finite supply, particularly energy commodities, such as crude oil, natural gas and other energy products. The CFTC also is evaluating whether position limits should be applied consistently across all markets and participants. Separately, the House of Representatives adopted financial regulatory reform legislation on December 11, 2009, that among other things would impose comprehensive regulation on the over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives marketplace. This legislation would subject swap dealers and “major swap participants” to substantial supervision and regulation, including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also would require central clearing for transactions entered into between swap dealers or major swap participants, and would provide the CFTC with authority to impose position limits in the OTC derivatives markets. A major swap participant generally would be someone other than a dealer who maintains a “substantial” net position in outstanding swaps, excluding swaps used for commercial hedging or for reducing or mitigating commercial risk, or whose positions create substantial net counterparty exposure that could have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the U.S. banking system or financial markets. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or how any climate change bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACESA, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s Proposed Fiscal Year 2010 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these 28 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or otherwise limit certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to access to capital and financing Our development and exploration operations, including our recent North Sea discoveries, require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and gas reserves. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and gas reserves, including expenditures relating to the development of our discoveries in the North Sea and our acreage position in the Haynesville Shale and other U.S. plays. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily with cash flow from operations and borrowings under our senior bank facility. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • our proved reserves; • the level of natural gas and crude oil we are able to produce from existing wells; • the prices at which natural gas and crude oil are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to further develop and exploit our current properties, or for exploratory activity. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may need to seek additional financing. Our credit agreements contain covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders. Our lenders may withhold this consent in their sole discretion. In addition, if our borrowing base is redetermined resulting in a lower borrowing base under our senior bank facility, we may be unable to obtain financing otherwise available under our senior bank facility. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity on terms that are similar to existing debt, and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to 29 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. Our debt level could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of December 31, 2009, we had $231.2 million in outstanding indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our operations, including • placing restrictions on certain operating activities; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indentures or the terms of our other debt instruments and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • decreasing our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors. We may not have sufficient funds to repay our outstanding debt. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to repay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions, our market value, our reserve levels and our operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. The inability to repay or refinance our debt, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and negatively impact our capital program. A change of control may adversely affect our liquidity and require refinancing of certain debt instruments. At December 31, 2009, we had $231.2 million outstanding under our debt agreements. Upon specified change of control events, each lender under our debt agreements may cancel the facility and declare outstanding loans, plus accrued and unpaid interest, outstanding letters of credit and other outstanding fees, if any, due and payable. We cannot assure you we would have sufficient financial resources to purchase the notes for cash or repay the lenders under our Debt Agreements upon the occurrence of a change of control. If a change of control occurs, we may be required to refinance our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness or, if a refinancing were to occur, that the refinancing would be on terms favorable to us. 30 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation If we are unable to fulfill commitments under any of our oil and gas interests, we will lose our interest, and our entire investment, in such interest. Our ability to retain oil and gas interests will depend on our ability to fulfill the commitments made with respect to each interest. We cannot assure you that we or the other participants in the projects will have the financial ability to fund these potential commitments. If we are unable to fulfill commitments under any of our interests, we will lose our interest, and our entire investment, in such interest. Risks relating to our common stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. Smaller capitalized companies like ours often experience substantial fluctuations in the trading price of their securities. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors, including those set forth elsewhere herein, as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements or drilling activities, general conditions in the oil and gas exploration and development industry, and other events or factors, some of which may be unrelated to our performance or prospects or to conditions in the industry as a whole. If we, our existing stockholders or holders of our securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock sell additional shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 12, 2010, we had approximately 160.2 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of those shares, approximately 5.0 million shares are restricted shares subject to vesting periods of up to three years. The remainder of these shares is freely tradable. In addition, approximately 2.8 million shares are issuable upon the exercise of presently outstanding stock options under our employee incentive plans and 0.9 million shares are issuable upon the exercise of presently outstanding options and warrants outside our employee incentive plans. Also 16.2 million shares are issuable upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes due 2012 and 48.8 million shares are issuable upon conversion of our Series C Preferred Stock, based upon the conversion price of $1.25, and 21.5 million shares are issuable upon conversion of our 11.5% convertible bonds, based on a conversion price of $2.36. 31 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and the Nevada Revised Statutes may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) could delay or make more difficult a change of control transaction or other business combination that may be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include, but are not limited to, the ability of our board of directors to issue a series of preferred stock, classification of our board of directors into three classes and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting. We are subject to the “Combinations With Interested Stockholders Statute” and the “Control Share Acquisition Statute” of the NRS. The Combinations Statute provides that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation cannot engage in specified business combinations with the corporation for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder is approved by the corporation’s board of directors before the person first became an interested stockholder. The Control Share Acquisition Statute provides that persons who acquire a “controlling interest” as defined by the statute, in a company may only be given full voting rights in their shares if such rights are conferred by the stockholders of the company at an annual or special meeting. However, any stockholder that does not vote in favor of granting such voting rights is entitled to demand that the company pay fair value for their shares if the acquiring person has acquired at least a majority of all of the voting power of the company. As such, persons acquiring a controlling interest may not be able to vote their shares. Risks related to potential impairments Lower oil and gas prices and other factors resulted in a ceiling test write-down and may in the future result in additional ceiling test write-downs or other impairments. We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, using period-end oil and gas prices and a 10% discount factor, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed this limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” Although a ceiling test write-down does not impact cash flow from operating activities, it does reduce net income and our shareholders’ equity. Once recorded, a ceiling test write-down is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas prices increase. We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (excluding the effect of our hedging contracts that are not designated for hedge accounting) as of the end of each quarter or as of the time of reporting our results. The net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties are computed on a country-by-country basis. Therefore, while our properties 32 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation in one country may be subject to a write-down, our properties in other countries could be unaffected. We also assess investments in unproved properties periodically to determine whether impairment has occurred. The risk that we will be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil and gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. We may experience further ceiling test write-downs or other impairments in the future. In addition, any future ceiling test cushion would be subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture activity. Our financial results could be adversely affected by goodwill impairments. As a result of mergers, acquisitions and dispositions, at December 31, 2009 we had $211.9 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Although our latest tests indicate that no goodwill impairment is currently required, future deterioration in market conditions could lead to goodwill impairments that could have a substantial negative effect on our profitability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 