Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as required by law, 19 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation we undertake no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These cautionary statements qualify all forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf. Risks related to our business We operate internationally and are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties. We currently have operations in the U.S. and U.K. and may expand our operations to other countries or regions. International operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • the risk of war, acts of terrorism, revolution, border disputes, expropriation, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; • laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and • the possibility of being subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the U.S. The exploration, production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated by governmental bodies, which subjects us to increased costs in order to comply with applicable laws and regulations as well as significant uncertainties due to the potential for such laws and regulations to change and evolve. Applicable legislation and regulations are under constant review for amendment or expansion. These efforts frequently result in an increase in the regulatory burden on companies in our industry and consequently an increase in the cost of doing business and decrease in profitability. Numerous governmental departments and agencies are authorized to, and have, issued rules and regulations imposing additional burdens on the oil and gas industry that often are costly to comply with and carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Production operations are affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the petroleum industry, by constantly changing administrative regulations and possible interruptions or termination by government authorities. Oil and gas mineral rights may be held by individuals, corporations or governments having jurisdiction over the area in which such mineral rights are located. As a general rule, parties holding such mineral rights grant licenses or leases to third parties to facilitate the exploration and development of these mineral rights. The terms of the leases and licenses are generally established to require timely development. Notwithstanding the ownership of mineral rights, the government of the jurisdiction in which mineral rights are located generally retains authority over the manner of development of those rights. As such, we may become subject to certain requirements, obligations and timelines as established or demanded by the holder of the oil and gas mineral rights and such requirements or obligations may adversely impact our operations, cash flow and capital plans. 20 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Economic conditions in the U.S. and key international markets may materially adversely impact our operating results, which could hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. The U.S., U.K. and other world economies are slowly recovering from a recession which began in 2008 and extended into 2009. Growth has resumed, but remains modest. There are likely to be significant long-term effects resulting from the recession and credit market crisis, including a future global economic growth rate that is slower than what was experienced prior to the recession. In addition, more volatility may occur before a sustainable, yet lower, growth rate is achieved. Because global economic growth drives demand for energy from all sources, including fossil fuels, a lower future economic growth rate will result in decreased demand growth for our crude oil and natural gas production as well as lower commodity prices, which will reduce our cash flows from operations and our profitability and may adversely affect our ability to obtain funding for our projects. Due to these and other factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms or at all. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to (i) meet our obligations as they come due, or (ii) implement our capital program, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations and prospects. Oil and gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and gas prices would reduce our revenues, profitability and cash flow and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and cash flow depend substantially upon the prices and demand for oil and gas. The markets for these commodities are volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. The U.S. gas market is heavily impacted by the increased supply from shale drilling, which has served to depress natural gas prices relative to the U.K. market. Prices for oil and gas fluctuate in response to relatively minor changes in the supply and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control, such as: • global supply of oil and gas; • level of consumer product demand; • technological advances affecting oil and gas consumption; • global economic conditions; • price and availability of alternative fuels; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other state-controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; • governmental regulations and taxation; • political conditions in or affecting other oil-producing and gas-producing countries; 21 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation • weather conditions; • the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipeline and other transportation facilities; and • the impact of energy conservation efforts. Lower oil and gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but significant or extended price declines may also reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require us to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively impact our future rate of growth and ability to replace our production. In addition, we may, from time to time, enter into long-term contracts based upon our reasoned expectations for commodity price levels. If commodity prices subsequently decrease significantly for a sustained period, we may be unable to perform our obligations or otherwise breach any such contract and be liable for damages. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating, obtaining and developing properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that have longer operating histories in our areas of operation and employ superior financial resources which allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources and which better enable them to acquire and develop the prospects that they have identified. We also actively compete with other companies when acquiring new licenses or oil and gas properties. Specifically, competitors with greater resources than our own have certain advantages that are particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for producing oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. These competitors may also be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling or downturns in the economy, including decreases in the price of commodities. Larger competitors may also be able to absorb the burden of any changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would also adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have been operating for a much longer time and have demonstrated the ability to operate through industry cycles. Our use of derivative transactions may limit future revenues from price increases and involves the risk that our counterparties may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. To manage our exposure to price or interest rate risk with our production, we routinely enter into commodity derivative contracts. The goal of these derivative contracts is to limit volatility and 22 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation increase the predictability of cash flow. Although the use of derivative contracts limits the downside risk of price declines, their use also may limit future revenues from price increases. In addition, derivative contracts may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which our production is less than expected or a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or gas prices. Derivative contracts also involve the risk that counterparties, which generally are financial institutions, may be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. If any one of our counterparties were to default on its obligations to us under the derivative contracts or seek bankruptcy protection, it could have a material adverse effect on our expected cash flows and our ability to fund our planned activities and could result in a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. In addition, in the current economic environment and tight financial markets, the risk of a counterparty default is heightened and it is possible that fewer counterparties will participate in future derivative transactions, which could result in greater concentration of our exposure to any one counterparty or a larger percentage of our future production being subject to commodity price changes. We are dependent on our executive officers and need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Our future success depends in large part on the service of our executive officers. The loss of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to retain their services. Further, we do not maintain key-person life insurance on any executive officers. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical and other management personnel who are essential for the identification and development of our prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain key personnel, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations are sensitive to currency rate fluctuations. Our operations are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Our financial statements, presented in U.S. dollars, are affected by foreign currency fluctuations through both translation risk and transaction risk. Volatility in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations, particularly through the weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. 23 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Risks related to executing our strategy and operations To maintain and grow our production and cash flow, we must continue to develop and produce existing reserves and discover or acquire new oil and gas reserves to develop and produce. Our future oil and gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. Producing oil and gas reserves are generally characterized by declining production rates that vary depending on reservoir characteristics and other factors. Our reserves will decline unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. We accomplish this through successful drilling programs and the acquisition of properties. However, we may be unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves or production at an acceptable cost or at all. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. If we are unable to find, develop or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production, our production rates will decline even if we drill the undeveloped locations that were included in our estimated proved reserves. Our future oil and gas reserves and production, and therefore our cash flow and income, are dependent on our success in economically finding or acquiring new reserves and efficiently developing our existing reserves. We may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition we complete is subject to substantial risks that could impact our business. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions of new properties or businesses that expand our current asset base and potentially offer unexploited reserve potential. Our growth strategy could be impeded if we are unable to acquire additional interests in oil and gas prospects on a profitable basis. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The success of any acquisition, including the COP Acquisition, will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: • the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the interests in oil and gas prospects, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; • the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which we are not indemnified or for which the indemnity we receive is inadequate; • the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; • the impact on our liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and assets. 24 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Consistent with industry practices, we typically are only able to perform limited reviews of the properties we seek to acquire. As a result, among other risks, our initial estimates of reserves, and the costs associated with developing those estimated reserves, may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely impact the desired benefits of the acquisition. We are involved in litigation related to a terminated acquisition for Marcellus shale play assets, and such litigation, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material adverse effect on us. On July 17, 2011, we entered into agreements (the “SM Purchase Agreements”) with SM Energy Company and certain other sellers named therein (collectively, “SM Energy”) for the purchase of oil and gas leases, producing properties, geophysical data, a pipeline and related assets in the Marcellus shale play in Pennsylvania (the “SM Acquisition”). On December 14, 2011, we terminated the SM Purchase Agreements based on our conclusion that (i) the title defects we identified, after analyzing SM Energy’s responses to the notice of defects and valuation of the defects, exceeded the contractual threshold of 15% of the applicable purchase price; and (ii) the condition of the pipeline was not in compliance with applicable regulatory standards, which would constitute a material violation of a representation and warranty contained in the applicable SM Purchase Agreement. Following our termination of each of the SM Purchase Agreements, SM Energy filed a lawsuit against us in Texas state court on December 20, 2011 alleging, among other things, breach of contract for refusing to close on the SM Acquisition. SM Energy is seeking an award of unspecified actual damages, including costs and reasonable attorney’s fees, and specific performance to complete the SM Acquisition. If we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, we may be subject to a range of potential adverse outcomes, including any one, or a combination of, the following: (i) a requirement to close the SM Acquisition for the full SM Purchase Price; (ii) damages in the event SM Energy divests the assets underlying the SM Acquisition for less than the SM Purchase Price; or (iii) other remedies potentially available to SM Energy. While we intend to contest these claims vigorously, we cannot predict with any certainty the outcome of this litigation, and the lawsuit, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our expectations for future drilling and development activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. We have identified drilling locations, prospects for future drilling opportunities and development plans for our commercial discoveries, including development, exploratory and other drilling and enhanced recovery activities. These drilling and development locations and prospects represent a significant part of our future drilling and development plans. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, third-party operators, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. In particular, delays in obtaining regulatory approvals relating to our field development programs for our North Sea discoveries can materially impact our ability to commence production at these discoveries which would materially impact our reserves, cash flow and results of operations. Furthermore, because of 25 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation these uncertainties, we cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet our expectations for success. As such, our actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from our current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our drilling projects are based in part on seismic and other technical data, which cannot ensure the commercial success of a prospect. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop and exploit prospects or properties depend in part on data obtained through geophysical and geological analyses, production data and engineering studies, the results of which are often uncertain. Seismic data and visualization techniques only assist geoscientists and geologists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable an interpreter to conclusively determine whether hydrocarbons are present or producible economically. In addition, the use of seismic and other advanced technologies may require greater predrilling expenditures than other drilling strategies. Because of these factors and the inherent uncertainties surrounding the evaluation of exploration prospects, we could incur losses as a result of exploratory drilling expenditures. Poor results from drilling activities would have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, ability to replace reserves and results of operations. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our assets will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic factors. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of these data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially and adversely from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. A significant portion of our total estimated net proved reserves at December 31, 2011 were undeveloped, and those reserves may not ultimately be developed. At December 31, 2011, approximately 77% of our total estimated net proved reserves were undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling. Our reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. These assumptions, however, may not prove correct. If we choose not to spend the capital to develop these reserves or if we are not otherwise able to successfully develop these reserves we may be required to write-off these reserves. Any such write-offs of our reserves could materially reduce our ability to borrow money and the value of our securities 26 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Our offshore operations involve special risks that could increase our cost of operations and adversely affect our ability to produce oil and gas. Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks specific to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. Offshore drilling in the North Sea generally requires more time and more advanced drilling technologies, involving a higher risk of technological failure and usually higher drilling costs. Moreover, offshore projects often lack proximity to the physical and oilfield service infrastructure, necessitating significant capital investment in subsea flow line infrastructure. Subsea tieback production systems require substantial time and the use of advanced and very sophisticated installation equipment supported by remotely operated vehicles. These operations may encounter mechanical difficulties and equipment failures that could result in significant cost overruns. As a result, a significant amount of time and capital must be invested before we can market the associated oil or gas of a commercial discovery, increasing both the financial and operational risk involved with these operations. Because of the lack and high cost of infrastructure, some offshore reserve discoveries may never be produced economically. We are not the operator of our producing fields and will not be the operator of all of the interests we own or acquire, and therefore we may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves in respect of such interests. A significant number of our interests, including all of our current producing fields, are operated by third parties. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of these interests or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of expected returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside our control, including: • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • the timing and amount of their capital expenditures; • the rate of production of the reserves; • approval of other participants to drill wells and implement other work programs; • the availability of suitable drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; and • selection of technology. 27 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Our inability to control the development efforts, costs and timing on the interests where we are not the operator could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, results of operations and business prospects. Actual production could differ significantly from forecasts. From time to time we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production decline rates from existing wells, outcomes from future drilling activity and assumptions relating to ongoing operations and maintenance of producing wells. Should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely impacted. Furthermore, downturns in commodity prices could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical, which would also adversely impact production. We may also adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our insurance may not protect us against business and operating risks, including an operator of a prospect in which we participate failing to maintain or obtain adequate insurance. Oil and gas operations are subject to particular hazards incident to the drilling and production of oil and gas, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently operate all of our oil and gas properties. In the projects in which we own non-operating interests, the operator may maintain insurance of various types to cover our operations with policy limits and retention liability customary in the industry. The occurrence of a significant adverse event that is not fully covered by insurance could result in the loss of our total investment in a particular prospect and additional liability for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and prospects. Our business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our development activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including adverse weather conditions (such as storms in the North Sea), cost overruns, equipment shortages, geological issues and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well does not assure we will realize a profit on our investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomical or only marginally economical. In addition to their costs, unsuccessful wells hinder our efforts to replace reserves. 28 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Our oil and natural gas exploration and production activities, including well stimulation and completion activities such as hydraulic fracturing, involve a variety of operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • low-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; • natural disasters, such as tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions; • inability to obtain insurance at reasonable rates; • failure to receive payment on insurance claims in a timely manner, or for the full amount claimed; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses or failures; • mechanical difficulties, such as lost or stuck oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations or rock compaction; and • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases, or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment. If we experience any of these problems, well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities could be affected, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; • repairs required to resume operations; and • loss of reserves. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks related to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from tropical storms, hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate funds available for exploration, exploitation and acquisitions or result in the loss of property and equipment. The cost of decommissioning is uncertain. We expect to incur obligations to abandon and decommission certain structures associated with our producing properties. To date, the industry has little experience of removing oil and gas structures from the North Sea, because few of the structures in the North Sea have been removed. 29 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Because experience is limited, we cannot precisely predict the costs of any future decommissions for which we might become obligated. Furthermore, we are required to post collateral as security over certain of our decommissioning liabilities in the North Sea. If actual decommission or abandonment costs exceed our estimates or reserves to satisfy such obligations, or we are required to provide a significant amount of collateral in cash or other security for these future costs, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially adversely affected. Risks related to access to capital and financing Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our oil and gas reserves. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration, development, production and acquisition of oil and gas reserves, including expenditures relating to the development of our assets in the North Sea and our acreage position in the U.S. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures primarily with cash on hand and cash flow from operations. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: • the level of natural gas and crude oil we are able to produce from existing wells; • our oil and gas reserves; • the prices at which natural gas and crude oil are sold; and • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels or to further develop and exploit our current properties, or for exploratory activity. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may need to seek additional financing. Any future bank indebtedness we incur may contain covenants restricting our ability to incur additional indebtedness without the consent of the lenders. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing in the future on terms favorable to us, or at all. The failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to exploration and development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas, crude oil and natural gas liquids reserves. 30 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Our debt levels could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of December 31, 2011, we had $469.9 million in outstanding indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our operations, including: • placing restrictions on certain operating activities; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indentures or the terms of our other debt instruments and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • decreasing our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged competitors. We may not have sufficient funds to repay our outstanding debt. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to repay or refinance such debt. Furthermore, any future debt instruments we enter into may contain certain restrictions on our ability to repay other debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions, our market value, our reserve levels and our operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. The inability to repay or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our operations and negatively impact our capital program. A change of control may adversely affect our liquidity and require refinancing of certain debt instruments. Upon certain specified change of control events, the lender under our letter of credit facility may cancel the facility and declare as due and payable any outstanding letters of credit and other outstanding fees. In addition, the indentures governing our senior notes contain similar covenants requiring repayment in the event of a change of control. We cannot assure you we would have sufficient financial resources to purchase the debt instruments for cash or repay the lenders under upon the occurrence of a change of control. There can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness or, if a refinancing were to occur, that the refinancing would be on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to fulfill commitments under any of our oil and gas interests, we will lose our interest, and our entire investment, in such interest. Our ability to retain oil and gas interests will depend on our ability to fulfill the commitments made with respect to each interest. We cannot assure you that we or the other participants in the projects will have the financial ability to fund these potential commitments. If we are unable to fulfill commitments under any of our interests, we will lose our interest, and our entire investment, in such interest. 31 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation If the Alba Acquisition is not consummated on or before June 15, 2012, the notes will be redeemed. Pending the closing of the Alba Acquisition, the net proceeds from 2018 Notes have been placed in an escrow account. If the Alba Acquisition is not closed on or prior to June 15, 2012, or the COP Purchase Agreement is terminated earlier, the funds in the escrow account, together with additional funds necessary to complete the redemption, will be used to redeem all of the 2018 Notes at a redemption price of 101% of the escrow amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the issuance date of the notes to the redemption date. The amount placed into escrow upon the closing of this offering is less than the full amount that will be required to redeem the 2018 Notes, and we will be required to provide such additional cash to use for such redemption. If such an event were to occur, we would utilize commitments under a senior secured bridge facility to fund the COP Acquisition and the repayment of the Senior Term Loan. Risks related to environmental and other regulations Increased tax rates contained in the 2011 U.K. Finance Bill may materially and adversely impact our financial condition. Our free cash flow and financial condition are impacted by the amount of taxes we are required to pay in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In July 2011, a tax increase was enacted by the U.K. government that raised the existing supplementary charge on profits from North Sea oil and gas production from 20% to 32%, effective March 24, 2011. This supplementary charge is in addition to the existing corporation tax rate of 30%. Any increase in the taxes we are required to pay, or the recognition of an additional non-cash charge resulting from this tax increase contained in the 2011 U.K. Finance Bill could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental regulations that can have a significant impact on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of national, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties as well as potential orders suspending or terminating our rights to operate. Some environmental laws to which we are subject to provide for strict liability for pollution damages and cleanup costs, rendering a person liable without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances such as oil and gas related products. Aquatic environments in which we operate are often particularly sensitive to environmental impacts, which may expose us to greater potential liability than that associated with exploration, development and production at many onshore locations. 32 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly requirements for oil and gas exploration and production activities could require us, as well as others in our industry, to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance which could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to comply with future laws and regulations to the same extent that we have complied in the past. Similarly, we cannot always precisely predict the potential impact of environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would restrict our operations in any area. Current and future environmental regulations, including restrictions on emissions of greenhouse gases due to concerns about climate change, could reduce the demand for our products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if this were to occur. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to liability arising out of the conduct of operations or conditions caused by others, or for activities that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Such liabilities can be significant, and if imposed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Governmental regulations to which we are subject could expose us to significant fines and/or penalties and our cost of compliance with such regulations could be substantial. Oil and gas exploration, development and production are subject to various types of regulation by local, state and national agencies. Regulations and laws affecting the oil and gas industry are comprehensive and under constant review for amendment and expansion. These regulations and laws carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, adversely affects our profitability. In addition, competitive conditions may be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and/or regulation considered from time to time by the governments and/or agencies thereof. Federal and state legislative regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. We routinely utilize hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of our drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into the formation to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. In the U.S., the process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decision. 33 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation At the same time, the White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic-fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. In addition, the U.S. Department of Energy is conducting an investigation into practices the agency could recommend to better protect the environment from drilling using hydraulic-fracturing completion methods. Additionally, certain members of the Congress have called upon the U.S. Government Accountability Office to investigate how hydraulic fracturing might adversely affect water resources, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to investigate the natural gas industry and any possible misleading of investors or the public regarding the economic feasibility of pursuing natural gas deposits in shales by means of hydraulic fracturing, and the U.S. Energy Information Administration to provide a better understanding of that agency’s estimates regarding natural gas reserves, including reserves from shale formations, as well as uncertainties associated with those estimates. Legislation also has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanism. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Colorado, Pennsylvania, and Wyoming have each adopted a variety of well construction, set back, and disclosure regulations limiting how fracturing can be performed and requiring various degrees of chemical disclosure. In addition, Texas adopted a law in June 2011 requiring disclosure to the Railroad Commission of Texas and the public of certain information regarding chemical ingredients and additives used in the hydraulic fracturing process. The Railroad Commission of Texas has issued regulations to implement these disclosure requirements. In addition to state laws, local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event state, local, or municipal legal restrictions are adopted in areas where we are currently conducting, or in the future plan to conduct operations, we may incur additional costs to comply with such requirements that may be significant in nature, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from the drilling of wells. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such laws could make it more difficult or costly for us to perform fracturing to stimulate production from tight formations. In addition, if hydraulic fracturing becomes regulated at the federal level as a result of federal legislation or regulatory initiatives by the EPA, our fracturing activities could become subject to additional permitting requirements, and also to attendant permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could also reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we are ultimately able to produce from our reserves. 34 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the crude oil and natural gas that we produce. There are a number of programs at the international, national, and local levels that aim to reduce greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. Changes to the existing laws or the enactment of new laws and regulations could increase our operating costs and reduce demand for our products. At this time, there is substantial uncertainty about the future of GHG emission limitations in the areas where we operate. For example, the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol is due to expire in 2012. At the recent Conference of the Parties, an agreement was reached to establish a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol beginning on January 1, 2013. While the exact emission reduction commitments that will be made by the Parties are not yet known, commitments to further emission reductions could negatively impact demand for our products. In addition, the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change agreed to the Durban Platform, an approach to develop a new legally binding agreement on climate change by 2015 that will enter into force by 2020. While this agreement will not impact our operations in the near term, a new agreement on global climate change could further reduce demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Rapidly evolving domestic legal and regulatory structures governing GHG emissions may increase the costs imposed upon our operations. For example, since December 2009, the United States Environmental Protection Agency has declared that GHGs threaten the environment, imposed limitations on GHGs from mobile sources and certain large stationary sources, and required certain industries to monitor and report their GHG emissions. These rules are all currently subject to legal challenges, but to this point, federal courts have refused to prevent EPA from implementing them. Entities involved in the production and distribution of oil and natural gas currently subject to the requirements of Subpart W of the Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule, and must report 2011 GHG emissions to the EPA. These reports are in addition to those required under Subpart Y for petroleum refineries. In addition, the EPA intends to impose New Source Performance Standards under the Clean Air Act that will apply to all fossil-fuel fired power plants and petroleum refineries. At the state level, California has adopted regulations to implement the cap and trade program called for in the Global Warming Solutions Act, and beginning in 2015, distributors of transportation, natural gas, and other fuels will be subject to the requirements of the program. To the extent we or our customers are subject to any of these regulations, we may face increased costs and decreased demand for our product. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the oil and natural gas we produced. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Recently proposed rules regulating air emissions from oil and gas operations could cause us to incur increased capital expenditures and operating costs. On July 28, 2011, the EPA proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. Specifically, the EPA’s proposed rule package includes New Source Performance Standards to address emissions of sulfur dioxide and volatile organic compounds (“VOCs”) and a separate set of emission standards to address hazardous air pollutants frequently associated with oil and natural gas production and processing activities. The EPA’s proposal would require the reduction of VOC emissions from oil and natural gas production facilities by mandating the use of “green completions” for hydraulic fracturing, which requires the operator to recover rather than vent the gas and natural gas liquids that come to the surface during completion of the fracturing process. The proposed rules also would establish specific requirements regarding emissions from compressors, dehydrators, storage tanks, and other production equipment. In addition, the rules would establish new leak detection requirements for natural gas processing plants. The EPA will receive public comment and hold hearings regarding the proposed rules and must take final action on them by April 3, 2012. If finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to our operations, including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant costs, including increased capital expenditures and operating costs, and could adversely impact our business. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. The United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The new legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), was signed into law by the President on July 21, 2010 and requires the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has proposed regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions or positions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will finalize these regulations. The financial reform legislation may also require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks that we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of 36 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of proposed legislation. Legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could have a material, adverse effect on us, our financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to potential impairments Our financial results could be adversely affected by goodwill impairments. As a result of mergers, acquisitions and dispositions, at December 31, 2011 we had $211.9 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Although our latest tests indicate that no goodwill impairment is currently required, future deterioration in market conditions could lead to goodwill impairments that could have a substantial negative effect on our profitability. Lower oil and gas prices and other factors may result in ceiling test write-downs or other impairments. We capitalize the costs to acquire, find and develop our oil and gas properties under the full cost accounting method. The net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties may not exceed the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, plus the lower of cost or fair market value for unproved properties. This quarterly test is called a “ceiling test.” If net capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties exceed this ceiling test, we must charge the amount 37 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation of the excess to earnings. Although a ceiling test write-down does not impact cash flow from operating activities, it does reduce net income and our stockholders’ equity. Once recorded, a ceiling test write-down is not reversible at a later date even if oil and gas prices increase. We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly, based on prices in effect (excluding the effect of our hedging contracts that are not designated for hedge accounting) as of the end of each quarter or as of the time of reporting our results. We also assess investments in unproved properties periodically to determine whether impairment has occurred. The risk that we will be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil and gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. We may experience further ceiling test write-downs or other impairments in the future. In addition, any future ceiling test cushion would be subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture activity. Risks relating to our common stock An active liquid trading market for our common stock may not be maintained and the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. Liquid and active trading markets usually result in less price volatility and more efficiency in carrying out stockholders’ purchase and sale orders. Smaller capitalized companies like ours often experience substantial fluctuations in the trading price of their securities. An active and liquid trading market for our common stock may not be maintained. In 2010, we undertook a one-for-seven share consolidation which significantly reduced the number of shares outstanding and eligible for trading. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may be subject to similar fluctuations in the future. The market price of our common stock could vary significantly as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we, our existing stockholders or holders of our securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock sell any shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 29, 2012, we had approximately 38.2 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of those shares, approximately 0.8 million shares are restricted shares subject to vesting periods of up to three years. The remainder of these shares is freely tradable. In addition, 0.2 million shares are issuable upon the exercise of presently outstanding stock options under our employee incentive plans and 0.1 million shares are issuable upon the exercise 38 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation of presently outstanding options and warrants outside our employee incentive plans. Also 7.3 million shares are issuable upon the conversion of our 5.5% Convertible Notes, based upon the conversion price of $18.51 per share; 4.2 million shares are issuable upon conversion of our Series C Preferred Stock, based upon the conversion price of $8.75 per share; and 5.1 million shares are issuable upon conversion of our 11.5% Convertible Bonds, based on a conversion price of $16.52. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and the Nevada Revised Statutes may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) could delay or make more difficult a change of control transaction or other business combination that may be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include, but are not limited to, the ability of our board of directors to issue a series of preferred stock, classification of our board of directors into three classes and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting. We are subject to the “Combinations With Interested Stockholders Statute” and the “Control Share Acquisition Statute” of the NRS. The Combinations Statute provides that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation cannot engage in specified business combinations with the corporation for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder is approved by the corporation’s board of directors before the person first became an interested stockholder. The Control Share Acquisition Statute provides that persons who acquire a “controlling interest” as defined by the statute, in a company may only be given full voting rights in their shares if such rights are conferred by the stockholders of the company at an annual or special meeting. However, any stockholder that does not vote in favor of granting such voting rights is entitled to demand that the company pay fair value for their shares if the acquiring person has acquired at least a majority of all of the voting power of the company. As such, persons acquiring a controlling interest may not be able to vote their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 