Item 1A. Risk Factors The information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes certain forward-looking statements. The words “may,” “will,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “continue,” “estimate,” “project,” “intend” and similar expressions used in this Form 10-K are intended to identify forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revision of these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date they are made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should also know that such statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should any of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those included within the forward-looking statements. The following material risk factors, among others, may affect our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Risks related to our business Our ability to produce commercial quantities of oil and gas from our properties may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control. If we are unable to produce oil and gas from our properties in commercial quantities, our operations will be severely affected. Our business of exploring, developing and producing oil and gas involves a substantial risk of investment loss. Drilling oil and gas wells involves the risk that the wells may be unproductive or that the wells, although productive, do not produce oil or gas in economic quantities. Other hazards, such as unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, fires, blowouts, loss of circulation of drilling fluids, or other conditions may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well. This could result in a total loss of our investment in a particular property. Certain of our operating areas are subject to severe weather conditions which could adversely impact our operations. A productive well may become uneconomic if water or other substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and gas from the well. In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is impregnated with water or other deleterious substances. We cannot assure you that oil and gas will be produced from the properties in which we have interests, nor can we assure the marketability of oil and gas that may be acquired or discovered. Numerous factors are beyond our control, including the proximity and capacity of oil and gas pipelines and processing equipment, market fluctuations of prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production and environmental regulations. We cannot predict how these factors may affect our business. We may not be able to replace production with new reserves which could cause our production and reserves to decline. Our future oil and gas production is highly dependent upon our level of success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. In general, the volume of production from oil and gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. The decline rates depend on reservoir characteristics. Our reserves will decline unless we acquire properties with proved reserves or conduct successful development and exploration drilling activities. We have limited control over the availability or cost of drilling rigs and other equipment and services which are essential to our operations, and market conditions or transportation impediments may hinder access to oil and gas markets or delay production. We have limited control over the availability and cost of drilling rigs and other services and equipment which are necessary for us to carry out our exploration and development activities. Procuring a sufficient number of drilling rigs is expensive and difficult as the market for such rigs is highly competitive. There is no assurance that we will be able to contract for such services or equipment on a timely basis or that the cost of such services and equipment will remain at a satisfactory or affordable level. For example, the terminal facility servicing our IVRRH, Renee and Rubie fields has experienced significant increases in operating costs in recent periods, causing the 10 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation operator to cease operations at that facility. As a result, we expect to suspend production at these fields by the end of the first quarter 2009. We also expect to incur approximately $10 million of abandonment costs for the facility, before salvage value, by mid-2010, however we cannot assure you that total abandonment costs will not exceed that amount. Shortages or the high cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our exploration and development operations, which could have a material adverse effect on business, financial condition or results of operations. Market conditions, the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation or the location of our drilling operations may hinder our access to oil and gas markets, delay production or increase our expenses. The availability of a ready market for oil and gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for, and supply of, oil and gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our debt level and terms of our debt agreements could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. As of December 31, 2008, we had $228 million in outstanding indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our debt agreements could have important consequences on our operations, including: • placing restrictions on certain operating activities; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indentures or the terms of our other debt and increasing the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operating activities to required payments on debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general business activities; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general business activities; • decreasing our ability to withstand a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage against other less leveraged or restricted competitors. We may not have sufficient funds to repay our outstanding debt. If we are unable to repay our debt out of cash on hand, we could attempt to refinance such debt, sell assets or repay such debt with the proceeds from an equity offering. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to pay the interest on our debt or that future borrowings, equity financings or proceeds from the sale of assets will be available to repay or refinance such debt. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through an offering of our capital stock, a refinancing of our debt or a sale of assets include financial market conditions, our market value and our operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We cannot assure you that any such offering, refinancing or sale of assets can be successfully completed. The inability to repay or refinance our debt, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and negatively impact our capital program. 11 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation We have outstanding $81.25 million of 6.00% convertible senior notes due 2012. Upon specified change of control events, each holder of those notes may require us to purchase all or a portion of the holder’s notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, up to but excluding the date of purchase, plus in certain circumstances, a makewhole premium. In early 2008, under a private offering, we issued $40 million of 11.5% guaranteed convertible bonds due 2014 to a company controlled by the Smedvig family office of Norway. If we undergo a “change of control” the holders of these bonds also have the right, subject to certain conditions, to redeem the bonds and accrued interest. At December 31, 2008, we also have outstanding $113 million under a Secured Revolving Loan and a Letter of Credit Facility Agreement (together, the “Debt Agreements”). Upon specified change of control events, each lender under the Debt Agreements may cancel the facility and declare outstanding loans, plus accrued and unpaid interest, outstanding letters of credit and other outstanding fees, if any, due and payable. We cannot assure you we would have sufficient financial resources to purchase the notes for cash or repay the lenders under our Debt Agreements upon the occurrence of a change of control. In addition, events involving a change of control may result in an event of default under other debt we may incur in the future. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our bank facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed would remain the same, and our net income would decrease. A 0.25% change in interest rates would not result in a material change in our annual interest expense. Recent changes in the financial and credit markets may impact economic growth, and a sustained decline of oil and natural gas prices can also affect our ability to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our current senior bank facility. This may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The credit and capital markets have become exceedingly distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In addition, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our current senior bank facility because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) our borrowing base under our current senior bank facility is redetermined at least twice per year and may decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for any other reason. 12 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, or we may be unable to implement our capital program, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues and results of operations. We will not be the operator of all of the interests we own or acquire, and therefore we may not be in a position to control the timing of development efforts, the associated costs, or the rate of production of the reserves in respect of such interests. A significant number of our interests, including several of our producing fields, are located in blocks that we do not currently operate and as we carry out our planned drilling program, we will not serve as operator of all planned wells. As a result, we may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of these interests or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects, and limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of expected returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend upon a number of factors that will be largely outside our control, including: • the timing and amount of their capital expenditures; • the availability of suitable offshore drilling rigs, drilling equipment, support vessels, production and transportation infrastructure and qualified operating personnel; • the operator’s expertise and financial resources; • approval of other participants and regulatory agencies to drill wells and implement other work programs; • selection of technology; and • the rate of production of the reserves. Our inability to control the development efforts, costs and timing on the interests where we are not the operator could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions, results of operations and business prospects. If we are unable to obtain additional financing or generate sufficient operating cash flow, we may not be able to adequately fund our existing development and exploration projects, acquire additional oil and gas interests or maintain our rights in such projects. We expect to incur substantial expenditures in connection with our oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, which may be in excess of operating cash flows and may require us to seek external sources of capital in the future. We may not have an adequate amount of financial resources to adequately fund all of our development and exploration projects. In the past, we have relied on operating cash flows, credit facility borrowings and the sale of our debt and equity securities to fund the acquisition, exploration and development of our petroleum 13 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation properties. We may need to raise additional capital to continue funding projects. We cannot assure you that additional funding will be available to us for exploration and development of our projects or to fulfill our obligations under any agreements. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient operating cash flow or obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of any such financing will be acceptable to us. Failure to generate such additional operating cash flow or obtain such additional financing could result in delay, postponement or cancellation of further exploration and development of our projects or the loss of our interest in our prospects. Competition for oil and gas properties and prospects is intense and some of our competitors have larger financial, technical and personnel resources that give them an advantage in evaluating, obtaining and developing properties and prospects. We operate in a highly competitive environment for reviewing prospects, acquiring properties, marketing oil and gas and securing trained personnel. Many of our competitors are major or independent oil and gas companies that have longer operating histories in our areas of operation and employ superior financial resources which allow them to obtain substantially greater technical and personnel resources and which better enable them to acquire and develop the prospects that they have identified. We also actively compete with other companies when acquiring new leases or oil and gas properties. Our relatively small size could adversely affect our ability to obtain new licenses in the future. Specifically, competitors with greater resources than our own have certain advantages that are particularly important in reviewing prospects and purchasing properties. Competitors may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or personnel resources permit. Competitors may also be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and exploratory prospects than we are able or willing to pay. If we are unable to compete successfully in these areas in the future, our future revenues and growth may be diminished or restricted. These competitors may also be better able to withstand sustained periods of unsuccessful drilling or downturns in the economy, including decreases in the price of commodities as experienced in 2008. Larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, most of our competitors have been operating for a much longer time and have demonstrated the ability to operate through industry cycles. If we are unable to identify additional oil and gas prospects in which we can acquire an interest at an affordable price, we may not be able to grow successfully. One element of our strategy is to continue to grow through selected acquisitions of additional interests in oil and gas prospects. This strategy may not be successful, however, because: • we may not be able to identify additional desirable oil and gas prospects and acquire interests in such prospects; • any acquisition of interests in oil and gas prospects may be found not to include prospects that contain proven oil or gas reserves; 14 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation • we may not have the ability to develop prospects that contain proven oil or gas reserves to the point of commercial production; • we may not have the financial ability to complete additional acquisitions of interests in oil and gas prospects or to develop the prospects that we acquire to the point of production; and • we may not be able to consummate additional acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unsuccessful at either identifying new oil and gas properties that are attractive to us, or are unable to acquire such properties at commercially acceptable terms, our business prospects and ability to grow could be materially adversely affected. Acquiring interests in properties for oil and natural gas exploration is speculative in nature and may not result in operating revenues or profits. We cannot assure you that we will discover oil and gas in commercial quantities in our current properties or properties we may acquire in the future. Our success depends upon our ability to acquire working and revenue interests in properties upon which oil and gas reserves ultimately are discovered. We face risks associated with our acquisition strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue strategic acquisitions of new properties that expand our current asset base and potentially offer unexploited reserve potential. This strategy involves risks and we cannot assure you that: • we will be able to finance or consummate the transactions we select; • any acquisitions will be profitable or be successfully integrated into our existing operations; • we will be able to retain and motivate key personnel of acquired businesses; • any acquisitions and integrations will not divert management resources; or • any acquisitions and integrations will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Market fluctuations in the prices of oil and gas could adversely affect the price at which we can sell oil or gas discovered on our properties, and lower oil and gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs. In recent decades, there have been periods of both worldwide over-production and underproduction of hydrocarbons, varying weather patterns and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts. These conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a regional basis. These periods historically have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas. The excess or short supply of oil and gas has placed pressures on prices and has resulted in dramatic price fluctuations, even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty future oil and gas prices. Changes in oil and gas prices significantly affect our revenues, operating results, profitability and the amount and value of our oil and gas reserves. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can produce economically. 15 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation We use the full cost method of accounting for our oil and gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore and develop oil and gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties (net of related deferred taxes), including estimated capitalized abandonment costs, may not exceed a “ceiling limit,” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, discounted at 10% and excluding cash flows related to estimated abandonment costs, plus the lower of cost or fair value of unproved properties. If net capitalized costs of oil and gas properties exceed the ceiling limit, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings as an impairment charge. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce net income. The risk that we will be required to write down the carrying value of oil and gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. We cannot assure you that we will not experience ceiling test write-downs in the future. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by goodwill impairments. As a result of mergers and acquisitions, at December 31, 2008 we had $285 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead must be tested at least annually for impairment by applying a fair-value-based test. Goodwill is deemed impaired to the extent that its carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. Although our latest tests indicate that no goodwill impairment is currently required, future deterioration in market conditions could lead to goodwill impairments that could have a substantial negative effect on our profitability. Derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. To manage our exposure to price risk with our production, we entered into commodity derivative contracts. We may also enter into other commodity derivative contracts from time to time with respect to a portion of our future production to manage our exposure to price risk or exposure to interest rate risk. The goal of these derivative contracts is to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions may limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices were to rise over, or interest rates fall below, the prices established by the derivative contracts. In addition, derivative contracts may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • the counterparties to our contracts fail to perform under the contracts; or • a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts oil or gas prices or interest rates. The use of 3-D seismic is only an interpretive tool and we may be unable to recognize significant geological features. The use of 3-D seismic is only an interpretive tool and we may be unable to recognize significant geological features due to errors in analysis of data, processing limitations or other factors. The use of seismic information does not guarantee that the wells we drill will encounter hydrocarbons, or if we do encounter hydrocarbons, that they will be present in commercial quantities. 16 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation We operate internationally and are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties. We currently have operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Norway and the Netherlands. We may expand our operations to other countries or regions. International operations are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • the risk of war, acts of terrorism, revolution, border disputes, expropriation, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts, and import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs; • taxation policies, including royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims; • exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations; • laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and • the possibility of being subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States. The exploration, production and sale of oil and gas are extensively regulated by governmental bodies. Applicable legislation is under constant review for amendment or expansion. These efforts frequently result in an increase in the regulatory burden on companies in our industry and consequently an increase in the cost of doing business and decrease in profitability. Numerous governmental departments and agencies are authorized to, and have, issued rules and regulations imposing additional burdens on the oil and gas industry that often are costly to comply with and carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Production operations are affected by changing tax and other laws relating to the petroleum industry, by constantly changing administrative regulations and possible interruptions or termination by government authorities. Oil and gas mineral rights may be held by individuals, corporations or governments having jurisdiction over the area in which such mineral rights are located. As a general rule, parties holding such mineral rights grant licenses or leases to third parties to facilitate the exploration and development of these mineral rights. The terms of the leases and licenses are generally established to require timely development. Notwithstanding the ownership of mineral rights, the government of the jurisdiction in which mineral rights are located generally retains authority over the manner of development of those rights. Our insurance may not protect us against all business and operating risks, including the potential that an operator of a prospect in which we participate may fail to maintain or obtain adequate insurance. 17 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Oil and gas operations are subject to particular hazards incident to the drilling and production of oil and gas, such as blowouts, cratering, explosions, uncontrollable flows of oil, gas or well fluids, fires and pollution and other environmental risks. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We maintain insurance for some, but not all, of the potential risks and liabilities associated with our business. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our operations, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We do not currently operate all of our oil and gas properties. In the projects in which we own non-operating interests, the operator may maintain insurance of various types to cover our operations with policy limits and retention liability customary in the industry. The occurrence of a significant adverse event that is not fully covered by insurance could result in the loss of our total investment in a particular prospect and additional liability for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The cost of decommissioning is uncertain. We expect to incur obligations to abandon and decommission certain structures associated with our producing properties. To date, the industry has little experience of removing oil and gas structures from the North Sea. Few of the structures in the North Sea have been removed. Certain groups have been established to study issues relating to decommissioning and abandonment and how the costs will be borne. Because experience is limited, we cannot precisely predict the costs of any future decommissions for which we might become obligated. Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate and any material inaccuracies in the reserve estimates or underlying assumptions of our assets will materially affect the quantities and present value of those reserves. Estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and inherently imprecise. It requires interpretation of the available technical data and making many assumptions about future conditions, including price and other economic factors. In preparing such estimates, projection of production rates, timing of development expenditures and available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data are analyzed. The extent, quality and reliability of these data can vary. This process also requires economic assumptions about matters such as oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. If our interpretations or assumptions used in arriving at our reserve estimates prove to be inaccurate, the amount of oil and gas that will ultimately be recovered may differ materially from the estimated quantities and net present value of reserves owned by us. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves most likely will vary from estimates, perhaps significantly. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. 18 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation If we are unable to fulfill commitments under any of our licenses, we will lose our interest, and our entire investment, in such license. Our ability to retain licenses in which we obtain an interest will depend on our ability to fulfill the commitments made with respect to each license. We cannot assure you that we or the other participants in the projects will have the financial ability to fund these potential commitments. If we are unable to fulfill commitments under any of our licenses, we will lose our interest, and our entire investment, in such license. We are subject to environmental regulations that can have a significant impact on our operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of national, state, local and international laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties as well as potential orders suspending or terminating our rights to operate. Some environmental laws to which we are subject to provide for strict liability for pollution damages, rendering a person liable without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. In addition, we may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances such as oil and gas related products. Aquatic environments in which we operate are often particularly sensitive to environmental impacts, which may expose us to greater potential liability than that associated with exploration, development and production at many onshore locations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly requirements for oil and gas exploration and production activities could require us, as well as others in our industry, to make significant expenditures to attain and maintain compliance which could have a corresponding material adverse effect on our competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to comply with future laws and regulations to the same extent that we believe we have in the past. Similarly, we cannot always precisely predict the potential impact of environmental laws and regulations which may be adopted in the future, including whether any such laws or regulations would restrict our operations in any area. Current and future environmental regulations, including restrictions on greenhouse gases due to concerns about climate change, could reduce the demand for our products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if this were to occur. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we could be subject to liability arising out of the conduct of operations or conditions caused by others, or for activities that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Such liabilities can be significant, and if imposed could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation Governmental regulations to which we are subject could expose us to significant fines and/or penalties and our cost of compliance with such regulations could be substantial. Oil and gas exploration, development and production are subject to various types of regulation by local, state and national agencies. Regulations and laws affecting the oil and gas industry are comprehensive and under constant review for amendment and expansion. These regulations and laws carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, adversely affects our profitability. In addition, competitive conditions may be substantially affected by various forms of energy legislation and/or regulation considered from time to time by the governments and/or agencies thereof. We are dependent on our executive officers and need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Our future success depends in large part on the service of our executive officers. The loss of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our executive officers, there can be no assurance that we will have the ability to retain their services. Further, we do not maintain key-person life insurance on any executive officers. Our future success also depends upon our ability to attract, assimilate and retain highly qualified technical and other management personnel, who are essential for the identification and development of our prospects. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract, integrate and retain key personnel, and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks relating to our common stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. Smaller capitalized companies like ours often experience substantial fluctuations in the trading price of their securities. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and in the future may be subject to similar fluctuations. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors, including those set forth elsewhere herein, as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements or drilling activities, general conditions in the oil and gas exploration and development industry, and other events or factors, some of which may be unrelated to our performance or prospects or to conditions in the industry as a whole. There is a limited market for our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE Alternext and the London Stock Exchange. Historically, there has not been an active trading market for a significant volume of our common stock. We are not certain that an active trading market for our common stock will develop, or if such a market develops, that it will be sustained, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock in the future. 20 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation If we, our existing stockholders or holders of our securities that are convertible into shares of our common stock sell additional shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 13, 2009, we had approximately 130.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. Of those shares, approximately 4.0 million shares are restricted shares subject to vesting periods of up to three years. The remainder of these shares is freely tradable. In addition, approximately 4.1 million shares are issuable upon the exercise of presently outstanding stock options under our employee incentive plans and 0.9 million shares are issuable upon the exercise of presently outstanding options and warrants outside our employee incentive plans. Also 16.2 million shares are issuable upon the conversion of our convertible senior notes due 2012 and 50.0 million shares are issuable upon conversion of our Series C Preferred Stock, based upon the conversion price of $2.50, and 19.3 million shares are issuable upon conversion of our 11.5% convertible bonds, based on a conversion price of $2.36. Provisions in our articles of incorporation, bylaws and the Nevada Revised Statutes may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and the Nevada Revised Statutes (“NRS”) could delay or make more difficult a change of control transaction or other business combination that may be beneficial to stockholders. These provisions include, but are not limited to, the ability of our board of directors to issue a series of preferred stock, classification of our board of directors into three classes and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call a special meeting. We are subject to the “Combinations With Interested Stockholders Statute” and the “Control Share Acquisition Statute” of the NRS. The Combinations Statute provides that specified persons who, together with affiliates and associates, own, or within three years did own, 10% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation cannot engage in specified business combinations with the corporation for a period of three years after the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder is approved by the corporation’s board of directors before the person first became an interested stockholder. The Control Share Acquisition Statute provides that persons who acquire a “controlling interest” as defined by the statute, in a company may only be given full voting rights in their shares if such rights are conferred by the stockholders of the company at an annual or special meeting. However, any stockholder that does not 21 Table of Contents Endeavour International Corporation vote in favor of granting such voting rights is entitled to demand that the company pay fair value for their shares if the acquiring person has acquired at least a majority of all of the voting power of the company. As such, persons acquiring a controlling interest may not be able to vote their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 