Item 1A. Risk Factors We have described below risks we are aware of that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial results of operations and financial condition and the value of our stock owned by our shareholders. Risks Related to Our Operations A significant portion of our revenue is generated through maintenance and support revenue. Decreases in maintenance and support sales or renewal rates, or a decrease in the number of new licenses we sell, will negatively impact our future revenue and financial results. Revenue from maintenance and support services, or M&S, we provide our customers comprised 56%, 48% and 45% of our total revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We earn M&S revenue from new M&S contracts, typically sold with new software licenses, and from renewals of such contracts. Any reduction in the number of new software licenses that we sell, or a reduction in sales of associated initial M&S contracts, therefore may have a long-term negative impact on our future M&S revenue, even if our customers continue to renew M&S contracts at historical rates. This situation, in turn, would impact our business and harm our financial results. 15 Table of Contents Our customers have no obligation to purchase M&S with their initial software license or renew their M&S contract after the expiration of their initial M&S period, which is typically one year. Our customers’ purchases of M&S, and our renewal rates, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the overall global economy, the health of their businesses, and the perceived value of the M&S program. If our customers do not purchase M&S with their initial software license or renew their M&S contract for our products, our M&S revenue will decline and our financial results will suffer. In addition, customers are generally entitled to reduced annual maintenance fees for entering into long-term maintenance contracts, i.e. those contracts with a term longer than one year. Declines in our license bookings, increases in the proportion of long-term maintenance contracts and/or increased discounting could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue growth rates. Should customers migrate from systems and applications which our products support, utilize alternatives to our products, including maintenance-free solutions, or become dissatisfied with our maintenance services, increased cancellations could lead to declines in our maintenance revenue. A substantial portion of our quarterly M&S revenue is attributable to M&S agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, if there is a decline in renewed M&S agreements in any one quarter, only a small portion of the decline will be reflected in our M&S revenue recognized in that quarter and the remainder will be reflected in our M&S revenue recognized in the following four quarters or more and in a decrease in deferred revenue on our balance sheet. For more information, see Item 7, “Management; Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our support and services offerings. Our failure to offer high-quality support and services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Once our products are deployed at our end customers’ locations, our end may customers depend on our support organization and our channel partners to resolve issues relating to our products. High-quality support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we or our channel partners do not assist our end customers in deploying our products effectively, succeed in helping our customers resolve post-deployment issues quickly, or provide ongoing support, it could adversely affect our ability to sell our products to existing end customers and could harm our reputation with other potential end customers. As we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. Our failure or the failure of our channel partners to maintain high-quality support and services could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we are unable to develop, offer and deliver new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry thirty years ago, we believe our industry may transform in response to continued adoption of mobile devices and cloud services, growth of big data, and potential emergence of capabilities resulting from disruptive innovation. In response, we have devoted significant resources to the development of new solutions, such as our cloud-based and secure content mobility services. We are making such investments through our internal efforts, including further development and enhancement of our existing products, as well as through potential acquisitions of new product lines. Innovation, new product development or acquisition, and go-to-market activities involve a significant commitment of time and resources and are subject to a number of risks and challenges including: • Developing, sustaining, and appropriately leveraging market intelligence to identify areas of market need that offer potentially high return on investment for solution development. • Managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which may be longer than originally expected. • Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers. • Extending the operation of our products and services to new platforms and operating systems. • Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience. • Managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and file replication technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and file replication solutions. • Incorporating acquired products and technologies. • Developing or expanding efficient sales channels. • Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems. 16 Table of Contents Investments in new products may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs, or may cause short or long-term harm to our financial results. For example, customer adoption of our cloud and mobile computing services may not occur as rapidly as anticipated, or competitors may introduce new products and services that achieve acceptance among our current customers, adversely affecting our competitive position, or we may not be successful in future attempts to achieve disruptive innovation. Further, given the rapid speed of changing customer expectations and advancement of technology inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms and other technologies, our executive management team must act quickly, continuously and with vision. Although we have articulated a strategy that we believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy, adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, or fail to internalize and execute on that strategy, we may fail to meet our customers’ expectations, fail to compete with our competitors’ products and technology and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We earn the large majority of our revenue and operating margins from our Enhanced File Transfer, licensed software solution suite and related maintenance and support services and, as a result, are highly dependent upon the continued success of this product line. Our Enhanced File Transfer solution, or EFT, is one of our on-premises, managed file transfer solutions targeted primarily to the enterprise and small and medium business user environments. License and M&S revenue from this product line was responsible for over 79% of our total revenue in 2013 and has provided substantially all of our recent revenue growth and most of the operating margin necessary to fund our operations including, most notably, our sales and marketing and research and development activities. Declines and variability in demand for the EFT solution could occur as a result of: • Improved products or product versions being offered by competitors in our markets. • Competitive pricing pressures. • Failure to release new or enhanced versions of the EFT solution on a timely basis, or at all. • Technological change that we are unable to address with file transfer products or that changes the way enterprises utilize our products. • General economic conditions. Due to our product concentration, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows would therefore be adversely affected by a decline in demand for the EFT solution suite. We may not achieve our expected future financial results from our other product lines and services that include Mail Express, Wide Area File Services, CuteFTP, Managed Information Xchange, Hosted Enhanced File Transfer, TappIn and professional services. Revenue from our products and services other than the EFT solution accounted for 20.9% of our total revenue in 2013, which is a decline from 22.4% and 24.2% of our total revenue in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Improving, and possibly even sustaining, our financial results is dependent upon achieving additional success in the marketplace with our products and services that complement and supplement our EFT solution suite. These products and services include CuteFTP, Mail Express, Wide Area File Services, Managed Information Xchange, Hosted Enhanced File Transfer and TappIn. These solutions involve serving markets that in some ways differ from the markets we encounter when selling EFT software and maintenance. Gaining additional traction in such markets will require that we market, sell, and support these solutions effectively. Each of these success factors has inherent risks due to, for example, our limited corporate expertise in the adjacent markets and the possibility that the specific buyers of solutions in these adjacent markets may be different from the buyers with whom we interact throughout our traditional EFT solution sales cycle. Entering, obtaining traction, and sustaining growth in these markets requires investments in engineering, marketing, sales, customer support, and internal business systems. If we do not effectively penetrate these markets, or if the resources necessary to effectively address these markets exceed our expectations, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our Managed Information Exchange, Hosted Enhanced File Transfer and TappIn solutions are cloud-based services. We believe these cloud-based services potentially provide a significant revenue opportunity to supplement our EFT business. Cloud-based services are a relatively new solution area for us that require technology development, marketing, sales and customer support techniques that can be distinctly different from those items as they relate to our EFT software that is installed on-premises at a customer location. Our experience suggests that it will continue to take time to obtain market traction with these solutions and to identify the trends necessary to develop projections of future business performance. It is difficult to determine when, or if, our ongoing investment in these products lines will achieve the desired levels of sales and contribution margins. If our ongoing development, marketing and sales of these products does not evolve as anticipated, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents A material portion of our professional services revenue in 2013 was earned under our contract with McLane Advanced Technologies, or MAT, in connection with their services to the U.S. Army. This contract was successfully completed in 2013. If we cannot sell professional services to others at a level sufficient to offset the revenue we will no longer earn under this contract, our business and financial results in the future could be adversely affected. Possible future acquisitions give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. Acquisitions generally such as our purchase of TappIn, Inc. in 2011, involve a number of risks and challenges, including: · Complexity, time, and costs associated with integration of the acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee base, product lines, marketing and technology. The possibility exists that the integration ultimately may not be successful. · Diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities throughout the integration. · Potential loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees. · Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including any future litigation related to alleged liabilities of the acquired business. · The incurrence of additional acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements. · Potential dilution of earnings per share. · Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. · Potentially substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and share-based compensation expense. The ongoing integration of any acquired business, involves continually determining and leveraging the actual market synergies, sustaining and even extending the business performance of the acquired entity, implementing our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrating and managing the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must continue to effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own culture in a way that aligns various interests. Through the TappIn acquisition, we entered a new adjacent market in which we had limited experience at the time of the acquisition. While our knowledge of this market has expanded since the acquisition, the secure content mobility market is an emerging market, with a wide range of potential solution approaches. More established, cloud-based data repositories and service providers compete for market share and mindshare with TappIn. Some of these competitors have much stronger market positions than TappIn. The time and expense to market, sell and support the TappIn solution and possible future versions of the solution, introduce additional risk to current operations. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of financial performance or to realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition. In addition, because acquisitions of technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous, current, or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. We may engage third parties to develop products on our behalf. These engagements may involve reliance on resources owned and managed by those third parties over which we have no direct control. In addition to researching and developing new products ourselves, we have in the past and may in the future decide to evolve and expand our product offerings by engaging third parties to conceive, design and develop products on our behalf. These arrangements involve high levels of risk due to inherent uncertainties about the timely delivery and ultimate viability of those products due to the reliance we must place on third parties to plan, perform and successfully complete work for us. These are processes for which we could have notably less direct control than if we performed the work ourselves. These arrangements also involve us relying on the ongoing financial viability of the enterprise performing the work. This risk is challenging to manage because we do not always have clear visibility as to the overall condition of the third-party enterprise. These risks could result in the product not being successfully completed within the expected timeframe, or at all. If actual results from these type endeavors we may undertake in the future differ materially from original and ongoing expectations, our business, operating results and financial position could be harmed. 18 Table of Contents Our addition of subscription services, such as our cloud-based Managed Information Xchange and Hosted Enhanced File Transfer solutions in recent years, may impact our prior revenue trends as some opportunities that otherwise would have materialized as software license sales potentially shift to subscription-based sales. Much of our revenue growth in recent years has been attributable to license and maintenance and support sales of our EFT solution. Software license sales typically are intended for implementations on customer premises and are recognized as revenue when delivery of the software has occurred and collection of fees from the customer is deemed probable. Because revenue from a subscription is recognized ratably over the life of the subscription, changes in the proportion of sales from software licenses and from subscriptions may result in substantial changes in our revenue trends and other financial metrics. License fees for software to be installed at a customer site, such as our EFT solution, are typically recognized in full as revenue at the time the software is delivered to the customer. Subscription services, on the other hand, are recognized as revenue over time as the services are delivered (assuming collection is deemed probable), typically on a monthly basis. Therefore, only a ratable portion of the total value of a subscription services sale is recognized as revenue each month with the remainder recorded as deferred revenue. The portion of the total value of the subscription recognized as revenue each month decreases as the contract term increases from 12 to 24, or 36 months. Any significant increase in the percentage of our business generated from such a subscription model could, as a result, delay revenue recognition and have a negative impact on our operating results. The impact of subscription services on prior revenue growth trends depends on several key factors, including the number of customers who may shift from software licenses to subscription services, the rate at which they may do so, the subscription term and fees, and the comparative value of the opportunity had it materialized as a software license sale instead of as a subscription service. Generally, for a fixed number of opportunities (that is, without considering the possibility that a new service offering may result in additional sales opportunities), addition of subscription services reduces revenue growth rates for several quarters for the associated solutions until cumulative subscription revenue increases and, potentially, surpasses comparable software license revenue. The revenue impacts are particularly pronounced early in the introduction of subscription services because there has been only a short time period for accumulation of the recurring revenue stream. As we continue to promote subscription-based services, the risk of this revenue shift will continue with revenue derived from sales of our EFT solution, the comparable on-premises MFT software in our portfolio, is most subject to ongoing transitory risk from the introduction of these subscription services. However, to date, we have seen no material impact from this potential revenue shift in light of the continued strength of our EFT sales and the pace at which our managed and hosted products and services have gained market acceptance. Subscription offerings create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition. Although the subscription model is designed to increase the number of customers who purchase our products and services and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable, it creates certain risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and potential reductions in cash flows. A portion of the subscription-based revenue we report each quarter results from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any period may not be immediately reflected in our reported financial results for that period but may result in a decline in our revenue in future quarters. If we were to experience significant downturns in subscription sales and renewal rates, our reported financial results might not reflect such downturns until future periods. Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenues from subscription or SaaS-based services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Increases in sales under our subscription sales model could result in decreased revenues over the short term if they are offset by a decline in sales from perpetual license customers. Our cloud and SaaS offerings bring new business and operational risks. We have introduced multiple new products and technology initiatives to provide secure file transfer solutions in the emerging area of cloud computing. We include in this category our SaaS offerings. Our SaaS offerings provide our customers with existing and new software management through a hosted service as opposed to traditional software deployments. There can be no assurance that SaaS revenue will be significant in the future despite our levels of investment. There is a risk that our SaaS offerings may reduce demand for licenses and maintenance of our traditional software products which could impact our revenue. Margins associated with our SaaS offerings are generally lower than margins associated with our on-premise solutions. Our customers may not renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their subscription agreements and in fact, some customers elect not to do so. Our customers may opt for a lower-priced edition of our offerings or for fewer subscriptions. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we may not be able to accurately predict customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services and their ability to continue their operations and spending levels. If we experience a decline in the renewal rates for our customers or they opt for lower-priced editions of our offerings or fewer subscriptions, our operating results may be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents There is a risk that our internal development and customer support teams could find it difficult or costly to support both traditional software installed by customers and software delivered as a service. To the extent that our new SaaS offerings are defective or there are disruptions to our services, demand for our SaaS offerings could diminish and we could be subject to substantial liability. Interruptions or delays in service from our third party service delivery hosts could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. If we or our third party service delivery hosts experience security breaches and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data or our data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our services and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our success in the emerging area of cloud computing depends on organizations and customers perceiving technological and operational benefits and cost savings associated with the increasing adoption of virtual infrastructure solutions for on-premise data centers as well as for cloud computing and end user computing. Concerns about security, privacy, availability, data integrity, retention and ownership may negatively impact the rate of adoption of cloud computing. Cloud computing environments can be complex and the deployment of our secure file transfer solutions in the cloud may require additional professional services and implementation services for which we may not have the ability to provide at an appropriate margin. In the cloud, our products are dependent upon third party hardware, software and cloud hosting vendors, all of which must interoperate for end users to achieve their computing goals. Since the cloud computing market is in the early stages of development, we expect other companies to enter this market and to introduce their own initiatives that may compete with, or not be compatible with, our cloud solutions. Operating margins on our new initiatives may be lower than those we have achieved in our more mature product markets. Our new initiatives may not generate sufficient revenue to recoup our investments in them. If any of these events were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide us with a number of operational services, including hosting and delivery, certain of our customer services and other operations. Any interruption or delay in service from these third parties, breaches of security or privacy, or failures in data collection could expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely impact our financial performance. We rely on hosted computer services from third parties for certain services that we provide our customers. As we gather customer data and host certain customer data in third-party facilities, a security breach could compromise the integrity or availability or result in the theft of customer data. In addition, our operations could be negatively affected in the event of a security breach, and we could be subject to the loss or theft of confidential or proprietary information.. Unauthorized access to this data may be obtained through break-ins, breach of our secure network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. We rely on a number of third party suppliers in the operation of our business for the provisioning of various services and materials that we use in the operation of our business and production of our products. Although we seek to diversify our third party suppliers, we may from time to time rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these services or materials. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in professional services revenue may be greater than experienced in previous reporting periods and have a disproportionate impact on our financial results. For example, increased professional services sales, especially to the government, may result in lower earnings as a percentage of revenue. Our solution portfolio includes software licenses, subscription services, and professional services. Because they are relatively labor intensive, professional services typically have substantially lower margins than software license sales, maintenance and support sales and subscription services. However, these services represent a strategic capability that helps customers plan, implement, and sustain our solutions and also provide us with the demonstrated past performance necessary to participate in certain procurements. Professional services historically have been less than 10% of our total revenue. However, this percentage can fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on the needs of our customers. For example, our professional services contract with McLane Advanced Technologies in connection with services to the U.S. Army was completed in 2013. 20 Table of Contents Depending on our mix of software licenses, subscription, and professional services revenue in a given reporting period, our earnings as a percentage of revenue may fluctuate from historical norms. For example, if we were to derive a relatively large (compared to historical norms) component of our revenue from professional services in a reporting period, earnings as a percentage of revenue may decline in that period due to lower margin contribution from the labor-intensive services as compared to software license and subscription service revenue. An inability to establish vendor specific objective evidence of the selling price of one or more components of a software sale with multiple components could result in our having to change from recognizing software license revenue in full at the time the software is delivered to recognizing that same software license revenue ratably in the future over an extended number of accounting periods. For software sales with multiple components (typically a sale involving both a license to software that will be delivered immediately and M&S that will be delivered over an extended period of time), generally accepted accounting principles require that vendor specific objective evidence of selling price (“VSOE”) be established for at least one of the components of that sale before the software license revenue can be recognized in full at the time of delivery to the customer of the licensed software. If VSOE cannot be established, recognition of the software license revenue must deferred and recognized ratably in the future over an extended number of accounting periods, the length of which would typically be the time period covered by the related M&S contract. We currently have established VSOE in a manner that supports us recognizing software license revenue in full at the time we deliver the software to our customers for substantially all of our products. Situations can arise where a change in product pricing that improves our cash flow and financial position has an unintended consequence of us not being able to establish VSOE where it existed before. If that set of circumstances were to occur, we could be required by generally accepted accounting principles to defer recognition of software license revenue to future periods. That requirement could cause us to experience an immediate decline in software license revenue recognized in our financial statements in the period in which the licensed software was delivered to our customer even though the timing and amount of cash flow from the transaction would be the same as when we had established VSOE. If this collection of events were to occur, it could have a material, adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and financial condition we present in our financial statements. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and business operations. At December 31, 2013, we had notes payable of $4.4 million under our loan agreements with a bank. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: · Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes which may be impaired or not available on favorable terms. · Covenants contained in our loan agreements require us to meet financial tests that may affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business, including future business opportunities. · We may need a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities. · Our level of indebtedness can make us more vulnerable to competitive pressures if there is a downturn in our business or the economy in general, than our competitors with less debt. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, acquisitions and/or, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness or seeking additional debt or equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to affect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms or at all. A breach of the terms and conditions of our loan agreements, including the inability to comply with the required financial covenants, could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs (after any applicable notice and cure periods), the lender would be entitled to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding (including accrued and unpaid interest and fees). Upon a default under the loan agreements, the lender could also foreclose against any collateral securing such obligations, which may be all or substantially all of our assets. If that occurred, we may not be able to continue to operate as a going concern. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to compete effectively with larger, better-positioned companies, resulting in lower margins and loss of market share. We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, market consolidation, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and product improvements by existing and new competitors. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors take or gain additional market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decrease in revenues that could adversely affect our business and operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitor strategies as such strategies become apparent, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, we could experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our financial results. We compete with a variety of companies who have significantly greater revenues and financial resources, partners, resellers and distribution channels than we have as well as greater personnel and technical resources. For example, the EFT solution suite competes with products from Sterling Commerce, Axway and several other vendors, and WAFS competes with Riverbed Technology and Cisco. TappIn competes with a variety of cloud file storage and collaboration companies such as Dropbox. Large companies may be able to develop new technologies, across multiple solution spaces, and on more operating systems, more quickly than we can, to offer a broader array of products, and to respond more quickly to new opportunities, industry standards or customer requirements. For example, Sterling Commerce receives substantial maintenance contract revenue annually, providing them with significant resources for product research, development and marketing. Additional competitors may enter the market and also may have significantly greater capabilities and resources than we do. Some existing competitors also may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing strategies. For example, Ipswitch provides an older version of its consumer file transfer protocol program for free for non-commercial use, and Microsoft includes file transfer protocol functionality in its Internet browser, which it also distributes for free. Increased competition may result in lower operating margins and loss of market share. As we attempt to expand our business, our operating expenses may increase, and we may incur losses. We intend to expand our business, specifically with regard to new license sales of our products. To do so, we plan to increase our research and development expenditures to accelerate our introduction of new features, functions and capabilities for our products to the marketplace, particularly with regard to our EFT Server product line. We intend to enhance the presence and visibility of those products by increasing our sales and marketing expenditures to expand our internal sales force, develop a broader reseller program involving more third-parties, and implement new sales lead generation and marketing initiatives. These expanded research and development and sales and marketing activities may result in an increase in our operating expenses. If we do not successfully develop new features, functions and capabilities for our products in a manner that increases license sales of our products, particularly with regard to our EFT Server product line, and if our enhanced sales and marketing activities, including expansion of our third-party reseller programs, are not successful, our revenue may not increase. In that event, our net income could decline or we may incur losses. Our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Addressing MFT, file synchronization, managed email attachment, cloud services and secure content mobility typically requires very complex products. Therefore, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’ computing environments also are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and have experienced delayed or lost revenues during the time required to correct these errors. 22 Table of Contents Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. For example, it has taken longer than originally expected to make the necessary improvements to our WAFS solution and therefore WAFS revenues to date have been lower than originally anticipated. Our business is subject to the risks of warranty claims, product returns, product liability and product defects. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our products could result in claims by customers for losses that they sustain. If customers make these types of claims, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem. Liability provisions in our standard terms and conditions of sale, and those of our resellers and distributors, may not be enforceable under some circumstances or may not fully or effectively protect us from customer claims and related liabilities and costs, including indemnification obligations under our agreements with resellers and distributors. The sale and support of our products also entail the risk of product liability claims. We maintain insurance to protect against certain types of claims associated with the use of our products, but our insurance coverage may not adequately cover any such claims. Even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in expenditures of funds in connection with litigation and divert management’s time and other resources. Turmoil and uncertainty in U.S. and international economic markets could adversely affect our business and operating results. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers. Lingering effects of the economic downturn in recent years have adversely impacted spending on information technology projects as prospects and customers reduce, sometimes greatly, their discretionary spending to focus on preserving mandatory spending budgets. These adverse impacts to customer spending may be directly, and adversely, reflected in our future business and operating results because we believe a substantial part of the MFT spending budget is considered discretionary by our prospects and customers. The perception of MFT solutions spending as discretionary is further reinforced by the existence of low cost, or even free, products that deliver some subset of the capabilities found in our solutions. Given the economic downturn, some customers may have decided to defer spending for our solutions or may have elected to obtain low cost or free “good enough” products as an interim measure. The potential adverse impacts of such decisions may persist for an extended period of time, even well into a period of economic recovery, given that many prospects will not change their IT infrastructure for a considerable period of time after that infrastructure has been installed and is operating adequately. Adverse financial results from another economic downturn and uncertainty could include flat, or even decreasing, sales, lower gross and net margins, and impairment of current or future goodwill and long-lived assets. In addition, some of our customers could delay paying their obligations to us. Potentially reduced sales and margins and customer payment problems could limit our ability to fund research and development, marketing, sales, and other activities necessary to sustain and expand our market position. As was the case with many other companies, at the onset of the recent economic downturn, our stock price decreased. If investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by another economic downturn, our stock price could decrease again. Regardless of economic conditions, fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including competition, product obsolescence, technological change, budget constraints of our actual and potential customers, level of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products declines, our revenues, as well as our gross and net margins, could be adversely affected. CuteFTP, in particular, competes in some ways with social media services for image and video sharing. As social media has increased in popularity, sales of our CuteFTP product line have declined. 23 Table of Contents Sales to the U.S. Government make up a portion of our business and changes in government defense spending could have consequences on our financial position, results of operations and business. From time-to-time in the past, sales to the U.S. Government have accounted for 10% or more of our total sales. Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government programs, primarily defense-related programs with the Department of Defense (“DoD”). The funding of our programs is subject to the overall U.S. Government budget and appropriation decisions and processes which are driven by numerous factors, including geo-political events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. The overall level of U.S. defense spending has increased in recent years for numerous reasons, including increases in funding of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and the DoD’s modernization initiatives. Looking forward, we expect overall defense spending to remain relatively flat in the near term, given the completed military withdrawal from Iraq and the expected drawdown of military operations in Afghanistan. However, projected defense spending budgets are uncertain and become increasingly difficult to predict for periods beyond the near-term due to numerous factors, including the external threat environment, funding for ongoing operations in Afghanistan, future priorities of the Administration and the overall health of the U.S. and world economies and the state of governmental finances. Significant changes in defense spending could have long-term consequences for our size and structure. Changes in government priorities and requirements could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Larger government contracts, such as the Army contracts in which we participate with certain of our customers, typically have long sales cycles. Therefore, closure of such contracts is difficult to predict, increasing uncertainty in our projections. U.S. Government contracts generally also permit the government to terminate the contract, in whole or in part, without prior notice, at the government’s convenience or for default based on performance. If one of our contracts is terminated for convenience, we would generally be entitled to payments for our allowable costs and would receive some allowance for profit on the work performed. If one of our contracts is terminated for default, we would generally be entitled to payments for our work that has been accepted by the government. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a negative impact on our ability to obtain future contracts and orders. Furthermore, on contracts for which we are a subcontractor and not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate the prime contract for convenience or otherwise, irrespective of our performance as a subcontractor. Because we are a DoD contractor, certain of our items and/or transactions may be subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (“ITAR”) if our software or services are specifically designed or modified for defense purposes. Companies engaged in manufacturing or exporting ITAR-controlled goods and services (even if these companies do not export such items) are required to register with the U.S. State Department. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines and sanctions which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes to our sales organization can be disruptive and may negatively impact our results of operations. From time to time, we make significant changes in the organizational structure and compensation plans of our sales organizations, which may increase the risk of sales personnel turnover. To the extent that we experience turnover within our direct sales force or sales management, there is a risk that the productivity of our sales force would be negatively impacted which could lead to revenue declines. Turnover within our sales force can cause disruption in sales cycles leading to delay or loss of business. It can take time to implement new sales management plans and to effectively recruit and train new sales representatives. We review and modify our compensation plans for the sales organization periodically. Changes to our sales compensation plans could make it difficult for us to attract and retain top sales talent. If we are unable to generate significant volumes of sales leads from Internet search engines, marketing campaigns and traffic to our websites, then our revenue may not grow as expected or may decline. We generate many of our sales leads through visits to our websites by potential end-users interested in purchasing or downloading evaluations of our products. Many of these potential end-users find our websites by searching for secure file transfer products through Internet search engines, such as Google. A critical factor in attracting potential customers to our websites is how prominently our websites are displayed in response to search inquiries. If we are listed less prominently or fail to appear in search result listings for any reason, visits to our websites by customers and potential customers could decline significantly. We may not be able to replace this traffic, and, if we attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our sales and marketing expenses, which may not be offset by additional revenue and could adversely affect our operating results. We also generate leads through various marketing activities such as targeted email campaigns, attending networking-based trade shows and hosting webinars on enterprise IT management issues. Our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful in generating evaluation downloads, resulting in fewer sales leads. If we fail to generate a sufficient volume of leads from these activities and/or such sales leads do not result in actual sales, our revenue may not grow as expected or could decrease and our operating results could suffer. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. We sell our products to customers primarily through our direct sales force and through resellers. Sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: Direct Sales. Most of our revenue is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with this sales channel include: · Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts; · Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force; · Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive, including regular updates to cover new and revised products; and · Reliance on leads obtained from paid advertising (for example, Google ads) could materially impact direct sales should advertising effectiveness decline due to non-attributable declines in leads, unforeseen search engine algorithm changes, or other occurrences that may adversely impact the lead generation aspects of the direct sales cycle. In addition, increased competition may materially impact the costs associated with such advertising. Indirect Sales Channels. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors and partners that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks, including: · Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users; · Our resellers and distributors currently are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; · Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; and · Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors. We cannot be certain that our distribution channel partners will continue to market or sell our products effectively. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future success depends on the continued services of key members of our management team. These individuals are difficult to replace because of the intense competition for similarly skilled people. New members of the management team may not be productive for weeks or months as they learn about our solutions, our personnel and the administrative practices within our company. Failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls could affect our ability to produce accurate financial statements which could result in the restatement of our financial statements or adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business, and our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting, which is defined as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. If we are unable to establish and maintain appropriate internal financial reporting controls and procedures, it could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, result in the restatement of our financial statements, harm our operating results, subject us to regulatory scrutiny and sanction, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and have a negative effect on the market price for shares of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to develop our software will be seriously impaired if we are not able to use our foreign subcontractors. We rely on foreign subcontractors to help us develop some aspects of some of our software. If these programmers decided to stop working for us, or if we were unable to continue using them because of political or economic instability, we would have difficulty finding comparably skilled developers in a timely manner. In addition, we would likely have to pay considerably more for the same work, especially if we used U.S. personnel. If we could not replace the contract programmers, it would take us significantly longer to develop certain products and product upgrades. It may be difficult for us to recruit and retain software developers and other technical and management personnel because we are a relatively small company. We compete intensely with other software development and distribution companies internationally and information technology departments supporting larger businesses to recruit and hire from a limited pool of qualified personnel. Some qualified candidates prefer to work for larger, better known companies or in another geographic area. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Also, accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Key personnel have left our Company in the past. There likely will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. Hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales, engineering, and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. Our operations potentially are vulnerable to security breaches that could harm the quality of our products and services or disrupt our ability to deliver our products and services. Information security is a dynamic discipline that historically has faced a threat that develops and emerges in sometimes-unpredictable ways. Third parties may breach our system and information security and damage our products and services or misappropriate confidential customer information. This might cause us to lose customers, or even cause customers to make claims against us for damages. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against potential or actual security breaches and/or to address problems caused by such breaches. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. While we have derived the majority of our historical revenues from on-premise delivery of our products, we now also offer our products on third party hosted platforms. As we continue to execute our strategy of increasing the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. At the same time, the continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. This environment demands that we continuously improve our design and coordination of security controls. It is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. Improper disclosure of this information could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. We believe consumers using our subscription services increasingly will want efficient, centralized methods of choosing their privacy preferences and controlling their data. Perceptions that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could constrain consumer and business adoption of cloud-based solutions. 26 Table of Contents Breaches of our cybersecurity systems could degrade our ability to conduct our business operations and deliver products and services to our customers, delay our ability to recognize revenue, compromise the integrity of our software products, result in significant data losses and the theft of our intellectual property, damage our reputation, expose us to liability to third parties and require us to incur significant additional costs to maintain the security of our networks and data. We increasingly depend upon our IT systems to conduct virtually all of our business operations, ranging from our internal operations and product development activities to our marketing and sales efforts and communications with our customers and business partners. Cyber threats may attempt to penetrate our network security, or that of our website, and misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions of our service. Because the techniques used by such attackers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. We have also outsourced a number of our business functions to third party contractors. Therefore, our business operations also depend, in part, on the success of our contractors' own cybersecurity measures. Similarly, we rely upon distributors, resellers, system vendors and systems integrators to sell our products and our sales operations depend, in part, on the reliability of their cybersecurity measures. Additionally, we depend upon our employees to appropriately handle confidential data and deploy our IT resources in safe and secure fashion that does not expose our network systems to security breaches and the loss of data. Accordingly, if our cybersecurity systems and those of our contractors fail to protect against unauthorized access, sophisticated cyber attacks and the mishandling of data by our employees and contractors, our ability to conduct our business effectively could be damaged in a number of ways, including: · Sensitive data regarding our business, including intellectual property and other proprietary data, could be stolen; · Our electronic communications systems, including email and other methods, could be disrupted, and our ability to conduct our business operations could be seriously damaged until such systems can be restored; · Our ability to process customer orders and electronically deliver products and services could be degraded, and our distribution channels could be disrupted, resulting in delays in revenue recognition; · Defects and security vulnerabilities could be introduced into our software products, thereby damaging the reputation and perceived reliability and security of our products and potentially making the data systems of our customers vulnerable to further data loss and cyber incidents; and · Personally identifiable data of our customers, employees and business partners could be lost. Should any of the above events occur, we could be subject to significant claims for liability from our customers, regulatory actions from governmental agencies, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could be compromised and our reputation and competitive position could be significantly harmed. Also, the regulatory and contractual actions, litigations, investigations, fines, penalties and liabilities relating to data breaches that result in losses of personally identifiable or credit card information of users of our services can be significant in terms of fines and reputational impact and necessitate changes to our business operations that may be disruptive to us. Additionally, we could incur significant costs in order to upgrade our cybersecurity systems and remediate damages. Consequently, our financial performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain components of the software code comprising some of our products are licensed from third parties making us dependent upon those licenses remaining in place for those products to operate in their current form. Certain key components of the software code comprising certain of our products are licensed from unrelated, third parties. These licenses are not perpetual such that, with advance notice as provided in the license agreements, those third parties could terminate those licenses. Even with advance notice, termination of those licenses could create a severe hardship for us due to the need to locate substitute software code from other third parties or create alternative software code ourselves in order for our products to continue to operate in the manner designed or for us to keep pace with customer requirements, including our obligations under maintenance and support agreements. There is no assurance we could achieve either of those alternative solutions in a timely and effective manner that would not disrupt our ability to continue selling and supporting those products, or without the consumption of significant company resources in the form of time spent by our personnel creating alternative solutions or cash paid to third parties to assist us. Such a situation could delay the completion and introduction to the marketplace of other products we are developing to remain competitive due to the diversion of the attention of certain of our key personnel away from that work. If any of these events occur, our future business and financial results could be adversely affected. We utilize “open source” software in some of our products. The open source software community develops software technology for free use by anyone. We incorporate a limited amount of open source code software into our products. For example, we have relied on open source technology for the encryption features in our CuteFTP Pro, EFT, and Mail Express solutions. We may use more open source code software in the future. 27 Table of Contents Our use, in some instances, of open source code software may impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our solutions and may subject us to possible intellectual property litigation. Open source code may impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products because, among other reasons, open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our solution, and open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law. In addition, it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the developers of the open source code and whether the acquired software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have been subject to such claims. Claims of infringement or misappropriation against us could be costly for us to defend and could require us to re-engineer our solution or to seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solution. We also might need to discontinue the sale of our solution in the event re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis. If any such claim, attempted remediation, or solution discontinuance occur, our business and operating results could be harmed. Our products may expose customers to invasion of privacy, causing customer dissatisfaction. Our EFT suite, Mail Express, and TappIn solutions are intended to facilitate information sharing, sometimes by providing outsiders access to a customer’s computer. Such access potentially may make the customer vulnerable to security breaches, which could result in the loss of their privacy or property. Invasions of privacy or other customer harm occurring in an environment where our solutions are operating could result in customer dissatisfaction and possible claims against us for any resulting damages. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets. All products that are exported, re-exported or that are worked on by foreign nationals are subject to export controls. Such controls include prohibitions on end uses, end users and exports to certain sanctioned countries. In addition, incorporation of encryption technology into our products increases the level of U.S. export controls. The encryptions export controls were modified in 2010. We are subject to these requirements as certain of our products include the ability for the end user to encrypt data. Therefore, our products may be exported outside the United States or revealed to foreign nations only by complying with the required level of export controls/restrictions. Restrictions applicable to our products may include: the requirement to have a license to export the technology; the requirement to have software licenses approved before export is allowed; and outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology to particular end users or to all end users in a particular country. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining or maintaining the licenses and other authorizations required to export our products from applicable government authorities. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the list of countries to which we cannot export, changes in persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Export laws and regulations can be extremely complex in their application. If we are found not to have complied with applicable export control laws, we may be sanctioned, fined or penalized by, among other things, having our ability to obtain export licenses curtailed or eliminated, possibly for an extended period of time. Our failure to receive or maintain any required export licenses or authorizations or our penalization for failure to comply with applicable export control laws would hinder our ability to sell our products, could result in financial penalties, and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any failure on our part or the part of our distributors to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could harm our business and operating results. Import and export regulations of encryption/decryption technology vary from country to country. We may be subject to different statutory or regulatory controls in different foreign jurisdictions, and as such, importation of our technology may not be permitted in these foreign jurisdictions. Violations of foreign regulations or regulation of international transactions could prevent us from being able to sell our products in international markets. Our success depends in large part to having access to international markets. A violation of foreign regulations could limit our access to such markets and have a negative effect on our results of operations. 28 Table of Contents As our international sales grow, we could become increasingly subject to additional risks that could harm our business. We conduct significant sales and customer support, in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 27% of our sales were to purchasers outside the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully expand international sales, we must establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. We may also incur additional expense translating our applications into additional languages. In addition, there is significant competition for entry into high growth markets, such as China. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could cause fluctuations in the results of our international operations. These risks include: · Compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements. · Variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions. · Changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by U.S. export laws. · Longer accounts receivable payment cycles. · Potentially adverse tax consequences. · Difficulties in protecting intellectual property. · Burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. · Difficulty transferring funds to the U.S. in a tax efficient manner from non-U.S jurisdictions in which the cash flow originates. We are subject to risks associated with compliance with laws and regulations globally which may harm our business. We are a global company subject to varied and complex laws, regulations and customs domestically and internationally. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including trade protection, import and export control, data and transaction processing security, payment card industry data security standards, records management, user-generated content hosted on websites we operate, corporate governance, employee and third-party complaints, gift policies, conflicts of interest, employment and labor relations laws, securities regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may at times conflict. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, or criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. We incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our global operations and could become subject to legal penalties if we fail to comply with local laws and regulations in U.S. jurisdictions or in foreign countries, which laws and regulations may be substantially different from those in the U.S. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our internal policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could have an adverse effect on our business. The amount of income taxes we compute as payable on our income tax returns filed with the Internal Revenue Service and certain states could be challenged by those taxing authorities resulting in us paying more taxes than anticipated. We file income tax returns with the Internal Revenue Service and taxing authorities in certain states. We prepare and file those returns based on our interpretations of the relevant tax code as to revenue to be reported and deductions and credits allowed. We use third-party experts to assist us in preparing our tax returns and computing our tax liabilities to help us ensure we pay the proper amount of tax due. Our tax returns are subject to examination by taxing authorities who could interpret the tax code in a different manner from us and conclude we are obligated to pay more taxes than we originally computed and paid. While we would defend the position taken on our tax returns as filed, a challenge from a taxing authority can be costly to defend with no assurance of a favorable outcome for us. In the event of an unfavorable result under these circumstances, our business, operating results and financial position could be harmed. 29 Table of Contents The amount of sales tax we collect on sales could be challenged by taxing authorities both in jurisdictions in which we have a corporate presence as well as by taxing authorities in areas where we have no corporate presence. We collect and remit sales tax on sales in jurisdictions where we have a corporate or physical presence that results in an obligation to do so. We sell our products to customers in numerous locations where we do not have a corporate or physical presence and, therefore, do not collect sales tax on those sales. States in which we collect sales tax could audit our activities and assess us with additional tax based on them interpreting the sales tax code differently than we interpret it. Various states in which we do not collect sales tax are aggressive in interpreting their sales tax codes in determining if a company with no apparent presence in those states is obligated to collect and remit sales taxes, particularly on sales made across the Internet. States where we do not collect sales tax could make an assertion that we should have been collecting sales tax and could assess us with that tax. While we would defend the position taken as to our obligation to collect sales tax and the amount of sales tax collected, a challenge from a taxing authority can be costly to defend with no assurance of a favorable outcome for us. In the event of an unfavorable result under these circumstances, our business, operating results and financial position could be harmed. Risks Related to Stock Ownership Our stock price is/may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to certain factors, including: · U.S. and global economic conditions leading to general declines in market capitalizations, with such declines not associated with operating performance. · Quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations. · Our announcements of new products. · Our announcements of acquisitions. · Our announcements of significant new customers or contracts. · Our competitors’ announcements of new products. · Our product development or release schedule. · Changes in our management team. · General conditions in the software industry. · Investor perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic position and those of our competitors and customers. In addition, the public stock markets experience extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high-technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our annual or quarterly financial results. Our financial results may be affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: · Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired technology and product rights. · Acquisition expenses. · Impairment of goodwill and intangibles. · Share-based compensation expense. · Restructuring charges. · Impairment of long-lived assets. 30 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and Delaware law could inhibit others from acquiring us. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in Delaware law could, together or separately: · Discourage potential acquisition proposals. · Delay or prevent a change in control. · Limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws prohibit stockholders from voting by written consent or calling meetings of the stockholders. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder, as defined in the statute, for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Our directors and executive officers continue to have substantial control over us. Our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 40.3% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2013. These stockholders would have the ability to substantially control GlobalSCAPE and direct its policies including the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, such as the election of directors and any acquisition or merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for our Board of Directors to be divided into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. As a result, approximately one-third of our Board of Directors will be elected each year. Stockholders’ ownership of our stock may be significantly diluted, affecting the value of the stock. There were options for 2,947,155 shares outstanding under our employee and director stock option plans as of March 1, 2014, of which 2,121,595 were vested. We have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act, covering stock issued upon the exercise of options by non-affiliates, and we may file a registration statement covering options held by affiliates as well. If we do not file a registration statement covering affiliates, affiliates who exercise their options may choose to sell the stock under an exemption from registration, such as Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The exercise of these options and sale of the resulting stock could depress the value of our stock. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights particularly because our products are partially developed by independent parties. From time to time we experience claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that some of the code in our products is developed by independent parties or licensed from third parties over whom we have less control than we exercise over internal developers. In addition, we expect that infringement claims against software developers will become more prevalent as the number of products and developers grows and the functionality of software programs in the market increasingly overlaps. Companies in the technology industry, and other patent and trademark holders seeking to profit from royalties in connection with grants of licenses, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Responding to and defending against such claims may cause us to incur significant expense and divert the time and efforts of our management and employees. Successful assertion of such claims could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from selling our products and services, damage our reputation, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms, any of which could materially harm our business. In addition, we may decide to pay substantial settlement costs in connection with any claim or litigation, whether or not successfully asserted. While it is not possible to predict the outcome of patent litigation incident to our business, defense costs may be significant, and we believe the costs associated with this litigation or other claims of infringement could generally have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. For any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we may have to pay damages and indemnify our customers against damages. 31 Table of Contents Claims of infringement could require us to re-engineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering its products. In addition, an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property, or the use of significant resources to defend against this type of claim could place a significant strain on our financial resources and harm our reputation. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our software code, and trade and service marks are some of our most valuable assets. Given the global nature of the Internet and our business, we are vulnerable to the misappropriation of this intellectual property, particularly in foreign markets, such as China and Eastern Europe, where laws or law enforcement practices are less developed. The global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of our software making it more likely that unauthorized third parties will copy certain portions of our proprietary information or reverse engineer the proprietary information used in its programs. If our proprietary rights were infringed by a third-party and we did not have adequate legal recourse, our ability to earn profits, which are highly dependent on those rights, would be severely diminished. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with our use of our trademarks. Our various trademarks are important to our business. If we were to lose the use of any of our trademarks, our business would be harmed and we would have to devote substantial resources towards developing an independent brand identity. Defending or enforcing our trademark rights at a local and international level could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 