Item 1A. Risk Factors We have described below risks that we are aware of that could have a material adverse effect on your stock ownership and our business. Risks Related to Operations GlobalSCAPE depends on two products for a substantial portion of its revenues. GlobalSCAPE depends on two products, CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro, for approximately 50% of its revenues. In addition, GlobalSCAPE’s ability to produce revenues related to other products and new products depends substantially on exploiting the traffic to GlobalSCAPE’s Web site generated by the demand for CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro. If GlobalSCAPE is not able to maintain its competitive position with these products, its revenues could decline dramatically and GlobalSCAPE’s plans to expand its business could be substantially impaired. From 1996 to 2000, sales of licenses for CuteFTP increased significantly year to year. From 2002 through 2004, combined revenues recognized from CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro declined year to year. CuteFTP revenue declined approximately 22%, whereas CuteFTP Pro increased approximately 18% from 2004 to 2005. Although the percentage of combined revenue for CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro has declined as compared to total revenues, actual revenues from these two products increased approximately 1% from 2004 to 2005. Substantially all software products ultimately reach a point in their lifecycle in which sales can be expected to plateau or decline. While it cannot be determined with certainty, these products may have reached such a point in their lifecycles. If we are not successful in shifting a higher percentage of our revenues to our other products and if sales of CuteFTP and Cute FTP Pro continue to remain flat or decline, our revenues, cash flow from operations and net income will decrease. 9 GlobalSCAPE’s new product introductions may fail to generate sufficient revenue. While we have had success in introducing our EFT products through 2005, we will need to continue to market and enhance these products with new features and modules to maintain our place in the market. If we fail to meet the needs of customers, or delay the introduction of demanded features, we may lose sales to the competition. If revenues from CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro decline and our new products fail to generate sufficient revenue to replace the declining revenues, our revenues, cash flow from operations and net income will decline. GlobalSCAPE may fail to develop or license the intellectual property needed to launch new products. Our strategy for future growth depends significantly on the addition of new products. If we fail to timely license, and/or develop new programs, or if our new programs are not functionally competitive with other programs in our markets, our revenue growth could be substantially impaired. GlobalSCAPE may not be able to develop its sales force as needed to successfully market its new products. GlobalSCAPE has relied heavily on internet sales in the past. However, our newer enterprise programs, Secure FTP Server, PublishXML and Enhanced File Transfer (EFT), require a more complex distribution model, including reliance on value-added resellers such as Web development and system consultants. In addition, our internal sales force must be skilled at managing a complex and multi-stage sales process appropriate for these products. We have experienced some turnover among our internal sales personnel during 2005, resulting in training new personnel to take their place. Training new employees takes time and can result in a loss of sales due to the technical skills that need to be gained in order to sell our enterprise type software. Future turnover could have an immediate and direct effect on our revenues. Continued turnover, especially of key personnel, could cause revenues to decline dramatically. If GlobalSCAPE loses key personnel it may not be able to execute its business plan. GlobalSCAPE’s future success depends on the continued services of key members of its management team. GlobalSCAPE did not experience turnover in its management team during 2005, which has been a key to moving our products and revenues forward. These individuals are difficult to replace because of the intense competition for similarly skilled people. In addition, new members of the management team may not be productive for weeks or months as they learn about GlobalSCAPE’s products and the administration within the Company. We face significant competition and competition in our market is likely to increase. The markets for our products are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. GlobalSCAPE’s competitors are constantly releasing improved versions of their products. The needs and expectations of GlobalSCAPE’s customers are also evolving. Therefore, GlobalSCAPE must continually enhance its products and develop new products to remain competitive. When a new product is brought to market with functionality better suited to a particular use, the demand for currently available products may decrease. All of GlobalSCAPE’s products are subject to the threat of reduced market share resulting from the introduction of competitive products. GlobalSCAPE may fail to develop new products and functionalities as quickly as is necessary in the future to avoid losing its position in the internet software market. In addition, software development generally requires substantial lead-time, so GlobalSCAPE must accurately predict what changes will be needed. GlobalSCAPE may fail to predict these changes far enough in advance, or it may not have sufficient technical personnel to make such changes. If GlobalSCAPE cannot keep pace, its products will lose their position in the market. 10 GlobalSCAPE utilizes “open source” software in some of its products. The open source software community develops software technology for free use by anyone. We have relied on open source technology for the encryption features in our CuteFTP Pro and GlobalSCAPE Secure FTP Server products. Our reliance on open source code software may impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our solution and may subject us to possible intellectual property litigation. We incorporate a limited amount of open source code software into our solution, and we may use more open source code software in the future. Open source code may impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our solution because, among other reasons, open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our solution, and open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law. In addition, it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the developers of the open source code and whether the acquired software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Claims of infringement or misappropriation against us could be costly for us to defend and could require us to seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solution, to re-engineer our solution or to discontinue the sale of our solution in the event re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. If this occurs, our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use a limited amount of open source software in our solution and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Any of this litigation could be costly for us to defend, hurt our results of operations and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our solution. Future government regulation may increase our cost of doing business and reduce demand for our products. New laws may be adopted to address areas such as taxation, privacy, copyrights, and quality of services, and existing laws may be applied to the internet in unexpected ways. New laws and unexpected application of existing laws related to the internet could create uncertainty in the internet market place, which could increase our cost of doing business, reduce demand for our products, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. If an effective internet sales tax scheme is implemented, demand for our products could decrease. GlobalSCAPE is not currently required to collect sales tax on its online sales except to customers in certain states. In general, state laws require that if the seller does not collect sales tax, residents who purchase goods online should remit sales tax to the appropriate taxing agency in the state where they live. However, state agencies rarely enforce this rule and we believe that less than 1% of our customers actually remit sales tax to their state taxing agencies. For practical purposes, most of our customers who do not pay sales tax to us purchase their license on a tax-free basis. If an effective internet sales tax scheme is implemented it would effectively increase the cost of our software in the eyes of our customers and therefore likely have a tendency to decrease demand for our software. Taxes imposed by foreign governments may decrease demand for our products in those markets. On July 1, 2003, the European Union (EU) enacted Value Added Taxes (VAT) on electronic purchases. These taxes are charged to our non-business customers in the EU member nations and rates vary by country. Western European countries account for a substantial portion of our international sales. These taxes, which vary in rate from 15% to 25%, may decrease demand for our products in these markets. Expansion in the number of the EU member nations may also decrease demand for our products as these taxes are imposed on more of our customers. 11 GlobalSCAPE may not be able to compete effectively with larger, better-positioned companies, resulting in lower margins and loss of market share. GlobalSCAPE competes with a variety of companies who have significantly greater revenues and financial resources than GlobalSCAPE as well as greater personnel and technical resources. For example, CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro compete with products offered by Ipswitch, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation, PureCMS competes with Macromedia Inc.’s software, and CuteSITE Builder competes with Microsoft and Macromedia software. Large companies may be able to develop new technologies more quickly than GlobalSCAPE, to offer a broader array of products, and to respond more quickly to new opportunities, industry standards or customer requirements. For example, Macromedia’s Dreamweaver is one of the most popular Web authoring programs for consumers and small businesses, providing them with a huge established customer base to which they are able to directly market their content management product, Contribute. Some competitors may also be able to adopt more aggressive pricing strategies. For example, Ipswitch gives an older version of its file transfer protocol program away for free for non-commercial use, and Microsoft includes file transfer protocol functionality in its internet browser, which it distributes for free. Increased competition may result in lower operating margins and loss of market share. Additional competitors may enter the market and may have significantly greater capabilities and resources than GlobalSCAPE. You should read the information under “Business-Competition” for more information on our competitors. It may be difficult for GlobalSCAPE to recruit software developers and other technical and management personnel because GlobalSCAPE is a relatively small company. GlobalSCAPE competes intensely with other internet software development and distribution companies internationally to recruit and hire from a limited pool of qualified personnel. Some qualified candidates prefer to work for larger, better known companies. Failure to attract and maintain qualified personnel would impede our development and maintenance of new and existing products. GlobalSCAPE’s ability to develop its software will be seriously impaired if it is not able to use its foreign subcontractors. GlobalSCAPE relies on foreign subcontractors to help it develop its software. If these programmers decided to stop working for GlobalSCAPE, or if GlobalSCAPE were unable to continue using them because of political or economic instability, GlobalSCAPE would have difficulty finding comparably skilled developers. In addition, GlobalSCAPE would likely have to pay considerably more for the same work, especially if it used U.S. personnel. If GlobalSCAPE could not replace the programmers, it would take it significantly longer to develop its products. GlobalSCAPE may incur losses as it attempts to expand its business. GlobalSCAPE intends to expand its business and therefore expects to expend significant additional resources on developing its sales force, developing a more robust reseller program, research and development, marketing and product development. As a result, GlobalSCAPE may need to expend significant resources to accomplish these goals. If GlobalSCAPE fails to successfully develop and market new products or improve its direct and channel sales results, it may not be able to achieve the necessary revenue growth and may not be profitable. GlobalSCAPE’s operations are vulnerable to security breaches that could harm the quality of its products and services or disrupt its ability to deliver its products and services. Third parties may breach GlobalSCAPE’s system security and damage its products and services or misappropriate confidential customer information. This might cause GlobalSCAPE to lose customers, or even cause customers to make claims on GlobalSCAPE for damages to them. In addition, GlobalSCAPE may be required to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches and/or to address problems caused by such breaches. 12 GlobalSCAPE’s products may expose customers to invasion of privacy, causing customer dissatisfaction. GlobalSCAPE’s Secure FTP Server and Enhanced File Transfer are intended to provide outsiders access to a customer’s computer, making the customer vulnerable to security breaches, which could result in the loss of their privacy or property. If customers suffer invasions of privacy or other harm, this may result in customer dissatisfaction and possible claims against us for any resulting damages. GlobalSCAPE’s products may contain defects that may be costly to correct, delay market acceptance of its products and damage its reputation. Errors may be found in GlobalSCAPE’s products after distribution. If errors are discovered, GlobalSCAPE may have to make significant expenditures of capital to eliminate them and may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. Errors and failures in GlobalSCAPE’s products could result in a loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of its products and could damage its reputation. GlobalSCAPE’s products rely on the prevalence of Windows-based operating systems and if that technology fails to maintain or improve market share, GlobalSCAPE’s products would not be as marketable. Almost all of GlobalSCAPE’s current software products can only be used on a Windows-based operating system and are not compatible with other operating systems. Anything that affects Windows market share negatively could have a material adverse effect on the demand for GlobalSCAPE’s products. GlobalSCAPE’s internal controls are limited, increasing the risk of employee mismanagement or error. All of our finance, accounting and SEC disclosure work is managed by a single officer, Thomas F. Farar, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer. Mr. Farar has an accounting staff of two persons. Without an increase in staffing, it may still be difficult for us to implement the types of internal controls that are common to larger corporations, and we therefore face a greater risk of mismanagement or error in these areas. Risks Related to Stock Ownership Our stock is a penny stock, which makes it more difficult to sell. A “penny stock” is any stock which is not traded on a national exchange or quoted on NASDAQ and which falls below a selling price of $5.00 per share in the public market. Our common stock is quoted on the NASD’s OTC Bulletin Board and not on an exchange or the NASDAQ, and it has traded from $0.10 to $4.90 since it began active trading in February 2002. The SEC’s penny stock rules require brokers and dealers to take certain steps before trading in a penny stock, making it more difficult to sell a penny stock than other stock. A sale of penny stock does not usually take place as quickly as a sale of other stock. You may decide to sell your stock when the market price is desirable to you, but by the time the sale is complete, the price of the stock may have fallen to the point that the sale is no longer desirable. The price of penny stocks is typically more volatile than other stocks, exacerbating this problem. Also, some brokers are unwilling to trade in shares of penny stocks. Our stock price is/may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to certain factors, including: • Quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations; • Our announcements of new products; • Our competitors’ announcements of new products; 13 • Our product development or release schedule; • General conditions in the software industry; and • Investor perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic position and those of our competitors and customers. In addition, the public stock markets experience extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high-technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock and have no plan to do so in the near future. Our principal shareholders may control our management decisions. Thomas Brown and David Mann, own approximately 70% of our outstanding common stock. Therefore, Messers Brown and Mann are able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control of GlobalSCAPE or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of GlobalSCAPE, either of which could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in GlobalSCAPE’s charter and Delaware law could inhibit others from acquiring GlobalSCAPE. Some of the provisions of GlobalSCAPE’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in Delaware law could, together or separately: • discourage potential acquisition proposals; • delay or prevent a change in control; and • limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of GlobalSCAPE’s common stock. In particular, GlobalSCAPE’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for, among other things, limitations on the individuals that may call meetings of the stockholders and do not allow for cumulative voting. GlobalSCAPE is also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder, as defined in the statute, for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Stockholders’ ownership of GlobalSCAPE stock may be significantly diluted, affecting the value of the stock. There are options for 2,058,600 shares currently outstanding under GlobalSCAPE’s employee stock option plans as of the date of this report. Of the 2,058,600 options, 1,047,451 were vested as of March 1, 2006. We have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), covering stock issued upon the exercise of options by non-affiliates, and we may file a registration statement covering options held by affiliates as well. If we do not file a registration statement covering affiliates, affiliates who exercise their options may choose to sell the stock under an exemption from registration, such as Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The exercise of these options and sale of the resulting stock could depress the value of our stock. 14 Risks Related to Legal Uncertainty GlobalSCAPE is vulnerable to claims that GlobalSCAPE’s products infringe third-party intellectual property rights particularly because GlobalSCAPE’s products are partially developed by independent parties. GlobalSCAPE may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that GlobalSCAPE’s products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that some of the code in GlobalSCAPE’s products is developed by independent parties or licensed from third parties over whom GlobalSCAPE has less control than it exercises over internal developers. In addition, we expect that infringement claims against software developers will become more prevalent as the number of products and developers grows and the functionality of software programs in the market increasingly overlaps. Claims of infringement could require GlobalSCAPE to re-engineer its products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering its products. In addition, an adverse legal decision affecting GlobalSCAPE’s intellectual property, or the use of significant resources to defend against this type of claim could place a significant strain on GlobalSCAPE’s financial resources and harm its reputation. GlobalSCAPE may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights. GlobalSCAPE’s software code, and trade and service marks are some of GlobalSCAPE’s most valuable assets. Given the global nature of the internet and GlobalSCAPE’s business, GlobalSCAPE is vulnerable to the misappropriation of this intellectual property, particularly in foreign markets, such as China and Eastern Europe, where laws or law enforcement practices are less developed. The global nature of the internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of GlobalSCAPE’s software making it more likely that unauthorized third parties will copy certain portions of GlobalSCAPE’s proprietary information or reverse engineer the proprietary information used in its programs. If GlobalSCAPE’s proprietary rights were infringed by a third-party, and GlobalSCAPE did not have adequate legal recourse, GlobalSCAPE’s ability to earn profits, which are highly dependent on those rights, would be severely diminished. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with GlobalSCAPE’s use of its trademarks. GlobalSCAPE’s various trademarks are important to its business. If GlobalSCAPE were to lose the use of any its trademarks, its business would be harmed and GlobalSCAPE would have to devote substantial resources towards developing an independent brand identity. Defending or enforcing GlobalSCAPE’s trademark rights at a local and international level could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 