Item 1A. Risk Factors We have described below risks that we are aware of that could have a material adverse effect on your stock ownership and our business. Risks Related to Operations If we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 10 Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and we believe that we will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. New product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: · Managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected. · Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers. · Extending the operation of our products and services to new platforms and operating systems. · Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience. · Managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions. · Incorporating acquired products and technologies. · Developing or expanding efficient sales channels. · Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, we could have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient revenues in return, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including competition, product obsolescence, technological change, budget constraints of our actual and potential customers, level of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products declines, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely affected. We may not be able to develop our sales force as needed to successfully market our new products. Prior to 2005, we relied heavily on internet sales. However, our enterprise programs, Secure FTP Server, Enhanced File Transfer (EFT), WAFS and CDP require a more complex distribution model, including reliance on value-added resellers such as Web development and system consultants. In addition, our internal sales force must be skilled at managing a complex and multi-stage sales process appropriate for these products. We experienced no turnover among our internal sales personnel during 2006. However when it does occur, the recruiting and training of new employees takes time and can result in a loss of sales due to the absence of technical skills needed to sell our enterprise type software. Future turnover could 11 have an immediate and direct effect on our revenues. Continued turnover, especially of key personnel, could cause revenues to decline dramatically. Our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’ computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and have experienced delayed or lost revenues during the period required to correct these errors. Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. We have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units and technologies. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: · Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee base, product lines, and technology. · Diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities. · Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees. · Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to alleged liabilities of the acquired business. · The incurrence of additional acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements. · Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders, or earnings per share. · Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. · Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. 12 If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or undergo other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitions in such markets have stronger market positions. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. We utilize “open source” software in some of our products. The open source software community develops software technology for free use by anyone. We have relied on open source technology for the encryption features in our CuteFTP Pro and GlobalSCAPE Secure FTP Server products. Our reliance on open source code software may impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our solution and may subject us to possible intellectual property litigation. We incorporate a limited amount of open source code software into our products, and we may use more open source code software in the future. Open source code may impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products because, among other reasons, open source license terms may be ambiguous and may result in unanticipated obligations regarding our solution, and open source software cannot be protected under trade secret law. In addition, it may be difficult for us to accurately determine the developers of the open source code and whether the acquired software infringes third-party intellectual property rights. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Claims of infringement or misappropriation against us could be costly for us to defend and could require us to seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our solution, to re-engineer our solution or to discontinue the sale of our solution in the event re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. If this occurs, our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, from time to time there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. We use a limited amount of open source software in our solution and may use more open source software in the future. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Any of this litigation could be costly for us to defend, hurt our results of operations and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our solution. If we lose key personnel we may not be able to execute our business plan. Our future success depends on the continued services of key members of our management team. We did not experience turnover in our management team during 2005, but in 2006 we had two vice president level employees leave. These individuals are difficult to replace because of the intense competition for similarly skilled people. In addition, new members of the management team may not be productive for weeks or months as they learn about our products and the administration within GlobalSCAPE. We were able to replace the losses with competent and experienced individuals allowing us to keep moving our products and revenues forward. We may not be able to compete effectively with larger, better-positioned companies, resulting in lower margins and loss of market share. We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions 13 and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop in revenues that could adversely affect our business and operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategy, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, we could experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our financial results. We compete with a variety of companies who have significantly greater revenues and financial resources than GlobalSCAPE as well as greater personnel and technical resources. For example, CuteFTP and CuteFTP Pro compete with products offered by Ipswitch, Inc. and Microsoft Corporation, EFT competes with products from Sterling Commerce and several other vendors, and WAFS competes with Riverbed Technology which recently completed an initial public offering. Large companies may be able to develop new technologies more quickly than we can, to offer a broader array of products, and to respond more quickly to new opportunities, industry standards or customer requirements. For example, Sterling Commerce receives approximately $50 million in maintenance contract revenue annually, providing them with significant resources for product development and marketing. Some competitors may also be able to adopt more aggressive pricing strategies. For example, Ipswitch gives an older version of its file transfer protocol program away for free for non-commercial use, and Microsoft includes file transfer protocol functionality in its internet browser, which it distributes for free. Increased competition may result in lower operating margins and loss of market share. Additional competitors may enter the market and may have significantly greater capabilities and resources than we do. It may be difficult for us to recruit software developers and other technical and management personnel because we are a relatively small company. We compete intensely with other internet software development and distribution companies internationally to recruit and hire from a limited pool of qualified personnel. Some qualified candidates prefer to work for larger, better known companies. Failure to attract and maintain qualified personnel would impede our development and maintenance of new and existing products. Our ability to develop our software will be seriously impaired if we are not able to use our foreign subcontractors. We rely on foreign subcontractors to help us develop our software. If these programmers decided to stop working for us, or if we were unable to continue using them because of political or economic instability, we would have difficulty finding comparably skilled developers. In addition, we would likely have to pay considerably more for the same work, especially if we used U.S. personnel. If we could not replace the programmers, it would take us significantly longer to develop our products. We may incur losses as we attempt to expand our business. We intend to expand our business and therefore expect to expend significant additional resources on developing our sales force, developing a more robust reseller program, research and development, marketing and product development. As a result, we may need to expend significant resources to accomplish these goals. If we fail to successfully develop and market new products or improve our direct and channel sales results, we may not be able to achieve the necessary revenue growth and may not be profitable. Our operations are vulnerable to security breaches that could harm the quality of our products and services or disrupt our ability to deliver our products and services. Third parties may breach our system security and damage our products and services or misappropriate confidential customer information. This might cause us to lose customers, or even cause 14 customers to make claims on us for damages to them. In addition, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches and/or to address problems caused by such breaches. Our products may expose customers to invasion of privacy, causing customer dissatisfaction. Our Secure FTP Server and Enhanced File Transfer are intended to provide outsiders access to a customer’s computer, making the customer vulnerable to security breaches, which could result in the loss of their privacy or property. Customers suffering invasions of privacy or other harm could result in customer dissatisfaction and possible claims against us for any resulting damages. Risks Related to Stock Ownership Our stock is a penny stock, which makes it more difficult to sell. A “penny stock” is any stock which is not traded on a national exchange or quoted on NASDAQ and which falls below a selling price of $5.00 per share in the public market. Our common stock is quoted on the NASD’s OTC Bulletin Board and not on an exchange or the NASDAQ, and it has traded from $0.10 to $4.90 since it began active trading in February 2002. The SEC’s penny stock rules require brokers and dealers to take certain steps before trading in a penny stock, making it more difficult to sell a penny stock than other stock. A sale of penny stock does not usually take place as quickly as a sale of other stock. You may decide to sell your stock when the market price is desirable to you, but by the time the sale is complete, the price of the stock may have fallen to the point that the sale is no longer desirable. The price of penny stocks is typically more volatile than other stocks, exacerbating this problem. Also, some brokers are unwilling to trade in shares of penny stocks. Our stock price is/may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to certain factors, including: · Quarter-to-quarter variations in results of operations; · Our announcements of new products; · Our competitors’ announcements of new products; · Our product development or release schedule; · General conditions in the software industry; and · Investor perceptions and expectations regarding our products, plans and strategic position and those of our competitors and customers. In addition, the public stock markets experience extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in high-technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. The broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock and have no plan to do so in the near future. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility prohibit the payment of dividends. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and Delaware law could inhibit others from acquiring us. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in Delaware law could, together or separately: 15 · discourage potential acquisition proposals; · delay or prevent a change in control; and · limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws prohibit stockholders from voting by written consent or calling meetings of the stockholders. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder, as defined in the statute, for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Our directors and executive officers continue to have substantial control over us Our directors and executive officers, together with their affiliates and related persons, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to control GlobalSCAPE and direct its policies including the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, such as the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for our Board of Directors to be divided into three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms. As a result, approximately one-third of our Board of Directors will be elected each year. Stockholders’ ownership of our stock may be significantly diluted, affecting the value of the stock. There were options for 1,745,560 shares outstanding under our employee stock option plans as March 1, 2007, of which 630,980 were vested as of March 1, 2007. We have filed a registration statement under the Securities Act, covering stock issued upon the exercise of options by non-affiliates, and we may file a registration statement covering options held by affiliates as well. If we do not file a registration statement covering affiliates, affiliates who exercise their options may choose to sell the stock under an exemption from registration, such as Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The exercise of these options and sale of the resulting stock could depress the value of our stock. Risks Related to Legal Uncertainty We are vulnerable to claims that our products infringe third-party intellectual property rights particularly because our products are partially developed by independent parties. We may be exposed to future litigation based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that some of the code in our products is developed by independent parties or licensed from third parties over whom we have less control than we exercise over internal developers. In addition, we expect that infringement claims against software developers will become more prevalent as the number of products and developers grows and the functionality of software programs in the market increasingly overlaps. Claims of infringement could require us to re-engineer our products or seek to obtain licenses from third parties in order to continue offering its products. In addition, an adverse legal decision affecting our intellectual property, or the use of significant resources to defend against this type of claim could place a significant strain on our financial resources and harm our reputation. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. Our software code, and trade and service marks are some of our most valuable assets. Given the global nature of the internet and our business, we are vulnerable to the misappropriation of this intellectual property, particularly in foreign markets, such as China and Eastern Europe, where laws or law 16 enforcement practices are less developed. The global nature of the internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of our software making it more likely that unauthorized third parties will copy certain portions of our proprietary information or reverse engineer the proprietary information used in its programs. If our proprietary rights were infringed by a third-party, and we did not have adequate legal recourse, our ability to earn profits, which are highly dependent on those rights, would be severely diminished. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent limit or interfere with our use of our trademarks. Our various trademarks are important to our business. If we were to lose the use of any of our trademarks, our business would be harmed and we would have to devote substantial resources towards developing an independent brand identity. Defending or enforcing our trademark rights at a local and international level could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 