ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks that Relate to Our Business Our business may be adversely impacted as a result of changes in demand, both globally and in individual market segments, for our consulting and systems integration services. Our business tends to lag behind economic cycles; consequently, we may experience rapid decreases in demand at the onset of significant economic downturns while the benefits of economic recovery may take longer to realize. Economic and political uncertainties adversely impact our clients’ demand for our services. During an economic downturn, our clients and potential clients often cancel, reduce or defer existing contracts and delay entering into new engagements, thereby reducing new contract bookings. In general, companies also reduce the amount of spending on information technology products and services during difficult economic times, resulting in limited implementations of new technology and smaller engagements. Our contracts funded by U.S. Federal government agencies, inclusive of government sponsored enterprises, accounted for approximately 28.4% of our revenue in 2007. We depend particularly on contracts funded by clients within the Department of Defense, which accounted for approximately 11.0% of our revenue in 2007. We believe that our U.S. Federal government contracts will continue to be a source of a significant amount of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our business could be materially harmed if the U.S. Federal government reduces its spending or reduces the budgets of its departments or agencies. Reduced budget and other political and regulatory factors may cause these departments and agencies to reduce their purchases under, or exercise their rights to terminate, existing contracts, or may result in fewer or smaller new contracts to be awarded to us. Our operating results will suffer if we are not able to maintain our billing and utilization rates or control our costs. Our operating results are largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the utilization rates, or chargeability, of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals, or if we cannot manage our cost structure, our operating results will be negatively impacted, we will not be able to sustain our margins and our ability to generate profits will suffer. Factors affecting the rates we are able to charge for our services include: • our clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services; • our ability to access and use of lower-cost service delivery personnel, as compared to the ability of our competitors to do so; • introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors; • pricing policies of our competitors; and • general economic conditions in the United States and abroad. Factors affecting our utilization rates include: • seasonal trends, primarily as a result of our hiring cycle and holiday and summer vacations; • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new engagements; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriately balanced and sized workforce; • our ability to manage attrition; and • our ability to mobilize our workforce quickly or economically, especially outside the United States. 6 Table of Contents Our operating results are also a function of our ability to control our costs. If we are unable to control these costs, such as costs associated with the production of financial statements, settlement of lawsuits or management of a significantly larger and more diverse workforce, our results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to timely and properly implement and operate our new financial reporting system, we may be unable to timely file our SEC periodic reports or conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. We are currently in the process of replacing our North American financial reporting systems. We expect that once the new North American financial reporting system has been implemented, it will help us to maintain the timely filing of our SEC periodic reports and provide the Company with current and timely financial information and reduce our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses. The implementation of a new financial system is complex and subject to many risks, including our ability to manage and implement a financial system of this scope and magnitude. See “— Risks that Relate to our Failure to Timely File Periodic Reports with the SEC and our Internal Control over Financial Reporting” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Principal Business Priorities for 2008 and Beyond — Drive Operational Excellence — Replace our North American Financial Reporting Systems.” For example, in 2005 our Audit Committee determined that the implementation of our current North American financial systems was attempted without adequate testing and training or sufficient backup capability, which contributed to: • our inability to timely file our SEC periodic reports; • the substantial increase in our SG&A expenses, including finance and accounting and audit costs; and • the material weaknesses identified in our 2004 through 2007 audits and the conclusion by management that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. For so long as we are unable to implement and operate our new North American financial system, we will continue to experience a higher than normal probability of the occurrence of these types of risks. We continue to incur SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue at levels significantly higher than those of our competitors. If we are unable to significantly reduce SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue over the near term, our ability to achieve our goals in net income and profitability will remain in jeopardy. In recent years we have experienced exceptionally high levels of SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue, primarily as a result of continuing issues related to our North American financial reporting systems and our internal controls, higher than average costs associated with hiring and retaining our employees and other assorted costs, including legal expenses associated with various disputes and litigation. During 2007, we incurred external costs of approximately $83.5 million related to the preparation of our financial statements, our auditors’ review and audit of our financial statements and the testing of internal controls, compared with approximately $128.2 million in 2006. In addition, we also currently expect to incur approximately $33.5 million in costs in 2008 related to the implementation of our new North American financial reporting system, of which $8.9 million is expected to be expensed and $24.6 million is expected to be capitalized, compared with approximately $25.3 million of such costs in 2007, of which $10.2 million was expensed and $15.1 million was capitalized. It is likely that higher than normal SG&A expenses will continue through 2008 and 2009 as we seek to achieve our objectives of timely preparing and filing our financial statements and SEC periodic reports, remediating material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and completing the replacement of our North American financial reporting systems. 7 Table of Contents Our ability to reduce future SG&A expenses is dependent, among other things, on: • improving our controls around the financial closing process; • remediating deficiencies in our internal controls; • reducing the amount of time and effort spent to substantiate the accuracy and completeness of our financial results; • reducing redundant systems and activities; • streamlining the input and capture of data; • hiring and retaining skilled finance and accounting personnel while decreasing the number of personnel required to support our financial close process, including reliance on contractors; • achieving further reductions in the number of offices and square feet of space occupied by us; and • achieving further cost savings in our various corporate services, including legal, information technology and human resources. If we are unable to achieve these objectives, offset these costs through other expense reductions, or if we encounter additional difficulties or setbacks in achieving these objectives, our SG&A expenses could significantly exceed current expected levels, and, consequently, materially and adversely affect our competitive position, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. The systems integration consulting markets are highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete effectively if we are not able to maintain our billing rates or control our costs related to these engagements. Systems integration consulting constitutes a significant part of our business. Historically, these markets have included a large number of participants and have been highly competitive. Recent increases in the number and availability of competing global delivery alternatives for systems integration work create ever increasing pricing pressures in these markets. We frequently compete with companies that have greater global delivery capabilities and alternatives, financial resources, name recognition and market share than we do. If we are unable to maintain our billing rates through delivering unique and differentiated systems integration solutions and control our costs through proper management of our workforce, global delivery centers and other available resources, we may lose the ability to compete effectively for this significant portion of our business. Contracting with the U.S. Federal government is inherently risky and exposes us to risks that may materially and adversely affect our business. We depend on contracts with U.S. Federal government agencies, particularly with the Department of Defense, for a significant portion of our revenue and consequently, we are exposed to various risks inherent in the government contracting process, including the following: • Our government contracts are subject to laws and regulations that provide government clients with rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, which are unfavorable to us. These rights and remedies allow government clients, among other things, to: • establish temporary holdbacks of funds due and owed to us under contracts for various reasons; • terminate our facility security clearances and thereby prevent us from receiving classified contracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • claim rights in products, systems and technology produced by us; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency if it is found that our prior relationship with that agency gives us an unfair advantage over competing contractors; 8 Table of Contents • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the suspension of our performance pending the outcome of the protest or our resubmission of a bid for the contract, or result in the termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract; and • prospectively reduce our pricing based upon achieving certain agreed service volumes or other metrics and reimburse any previously charged amounts subsequently found to have been improperly charged under the contract. • Our failure to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances may limit our ability to perform classified work for government clients, which could cause us to lose business. In addition, security breaches in sensitive government systems that we have developed could damage our reputation and eligibility for additional work and expose us to significant losses. • The U.S. Federal government audits and reviews our performance on contracts, pricing and cost allocation practices, cost structure, systems, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If the government finds that our costs are not reimbursable, have not been properly determined or are based on outdated estimates of our costs, we may not be allowed to bill for all or part of those costs, or we may have to refund cash that we have already collected, which may materially affect our operating margin and the expected timing of our cash flows. • Government contracting officers have wide latitude in their ability to conclude as to the financial responsibility of companies that contract with agencies of the U.S. Federal government. Officers who conclude that a company is not financially responsible may withhold new engagements and terminate recently contracted engagements for which significant expenditures and outlays already may have been made. • If the government uncovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or debarment from doing business with U.S. Federal government agencies. These consequences could materially and adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The inherent limitations of internal controls, even when adequate, may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities. • Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. The impact of any of these occurrences or conditions could affect not only our business with the agency or department involved, but also other agencies and departments within the U.S. Federal government. Depending on the size of the project or the magnitude of the budget reduction, potential costs, penalties or negative publicity involved, any of these occurrences or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business or our results of operation. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate our managing directors and other key employees is critical to the success of our business. We continue to experience sustained, higher-than-industry average levels of voluntary turnover among our workforce, which has impacted our ability to grow our business. Our success depends largely on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled professionals. Competition for skilled personnel in the consulting and technology services business is intense. The following additional attrition risks are unique to our business: • In light of our current issues related to our North American financial reporting systems and our internal control over financial reporting, it is particularly critical that we continue to attract and retain experienced finance personnel. 9 Table of Contents • Higher than average attrition creates recruiting, training and retention costs and benefits that place significant demands on our resources. • Our inability to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC from 2005 through 2007 materially and negatively affected our ability to deliver freely tradable equity incentives to our people. • Rumors, misperceptions and misrepresentations regarding our financial stability or ongoing operations may create career uncertainties for our employees. The continuing loss of significant numbers of our professionals or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel for these or other reasons could have a serious negative effect on us, including our ability to obtain and successfully complete important engagements and thus maintain or increase our revenue. Our contracts can be terminated by our clients with short notice, or our clients may cancel or delay projects. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, engagement-by-engagement basis, rather than under exclusive long-term contracts. Most of our consulting engagements are less than twelve months in duration. Most of our contracts can be terminated by our clients upon short notice and without significant penalty. Large client projects involve multiple engagements or stages, and there are risks that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of a project or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays could result from factors unrelated to our work product or the progress of the project, but could be related to business or financial conditions of the client or the economy generally. When contracts are terminated, cancelled or delayed, we lose the associated revenue, and we may not be able to eliminate associated costs in a timely manner. Consequently, our operating results in subsequent periods may be adversely impacted. If we are not able to keep up with rapid changes in technology or maintain strong relationships with software providers, our business could suffer. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop service offerings that keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and implement ideas for the successful application of existing and new technologies. We may not be successful in addressing these developments on a timely basis, or our ideas may not be successful in the marketplace. Also, products and technologies developed by our competitors may make our services or product offerings less competitive or obsolete. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and successfully complete client engagements. In addition, we generate a significant portion of our revenue from projects to implement software developed by others. Our future success in the software implementation business depends, in part, on the continuing viability of these companies, their ability to maintain market leadership and our ability to maintain a good relationship with these companies. Loss of our joint marketing relationships could reduce our revenue and growth prospects. Our most significant joint marketing relationships are with Oracle Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, SAP AG, Hewlett-Packard Company and IBM Corporation. These relationships enable us to increase revenue by providing us additional marketing exposure, expanding our sales coverage, increasing the training of our professionals and developing and co-branding service offerings that respond to customer demand. The loss of one or more of these relationships could adversely affect our business by terminating current joint marketing and product development efforts or otherwise decreasing our revenue and growth prospects. Because most of our significant joint marketing relationships are nonexclusive, if our competitors are more successful in, among other things, building leading-edge products and services, these entities may form closer or preferred arrangements with other consulting organizations, which could materially reduce our revenue. 10 Table of Contents We are not likely to be able to significantly grow our business through mergers and acquisitions in the near term. We have had limited success in valuing and integrating acquisitions into our business. Given past experiences, the current competing demands for our capital resources and limitations contained in our senior secured credit facility, we are unlikely to grow our business through significant acquisitions. Our inability to do so may competitively disadvantage us or jeopardize our independence. There will not be a consistent pattern in our financial results from quarter to quarter, which may result in increased volatility of our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter, making them difficult to predict. This may lead to volatility in our stock price. Factors that could cause variations in our quarterly financial results include: • the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services; • seasonality, including the number of work days and holidays and summer vacations; • the stage of completion of existing projects or their termination; • cost overruns or revenue write-offs resulting from unexpected delays or delivery issues on engagements; • periodic differences between our clients’ estimated and actual levels of business activity associated with ongoing engagements; • our ability to transition employees quickly from completed projects to new engagements; • the introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • our ability to manage costs, including personnel costs and support services costs, particularly outside the United States where local labor laws may significantly affect our ability to mobilize personnel quickly or economically; • currency exchange fluctuations; • ongoing costs associated with our efforts to remediate material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and to produce timely and accurate financial information despite the continuing existence of these material weaknesses; • changes in, or the application of changes to, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, particularly those related to revenue recognition; and • global, regional and local economic and political conditions and related risks, including acts of terrorism. Our performance may be negatively affected due to financial, regulatory and operational risks inherent in worldwide operations. In 2007, approximately 36.0% of our revenue was attributable to activities outside North America. Our results of operation are affected by our ability to manage risks inherent in our doing business abroad. These risks include exchange rate fluctuation, regulatory concerns, terrorist activity, restrictions with respect to the movement of currency, access to highly skilled workers, political and economic stability, unauthorized and improper activities of employees and our ability to protect our intellectual property. Despite our best efforts, we may not be in compliance with all regulations around the world and may be subject to penalties and fines as a result. These penalties and fines may materially and adversely affect our performance. 11 Table of Contents Some of our services are performed in high-risk locations, such as Iraq and Afghanistan, where the country or location is suffering from political, social or economic issues, or war or civil unrest. In those locations, we incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk. Despite our best efforts, we may suffer the loss of our employees or those of our contractors. The risk of these losses and the costs of protecting against them may become prohibitive. If so, we may face taking a decision regarding removing our employees from one or more of these countries and ceasing to seek new work or complete the existing contracts that we have in those countries or regions. Such a decision could, directly or indirectly, materially and adversely affect our current and future revenue, as well as our performance. We may bear the risk of cost overruns relating to our services, thereby adversely affecting our performance. The effort and cost associated with the completion of our systems integration, software development and implementation or other services are difficult to estimate and, in some cases, may significantly exceed the estimates made at the time we commence the services. We often provide these services under level-of-effort and fixed-price contracts. The level-of-effort contracts are usually based on time and materials or direct costs plus a fee. Under these arrangements, we are able to bill our client based on the actual cost of completing the services, even if the ultimate cost of the services exceeds our initial estimates. However, if the ultimate cost exceeds our initial estimate by a significant amount, we may have difficulty collecting the full amount that we are due under the contract, depending upon many factors, including the reasons for the increase in cost, our communication with the client throughout the project, and the client’s satisfaction with the services. As a result, we could incur losses with respect to these services even when they are priced on a level-of-effort basis. If we provide these services under a fixed-price contract, we bear the risk that the ultimate cost of the project will materially exceed the price to be charged to the client. If we fail to accurately estimate our costs or the time required to perform under a contract, our ability to generate profits on these contracts may be materially and adversely affected. We may face legal liabilities and damage to our professional reputation from claims made against our work. Many of our engagements involve projects that are critical to the operation of our clients’ businesses. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The provisions we typically include in our contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services and the applications we develop may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. Moreover, as a consulting firm, we depend to a large extent on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high caliber professional services and integrity to retain and attract clients and employees. As a result, claims made against our work may be more damaging in our industry than in other businesses. Negative publicity related to our client relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new engagements. Our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot be sure that our services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us. These claims may harm our reputation, cost us money and prevent us from offering some services. In some contracts, we have agreed to indemnify our clients for certain expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some instances, the amount of these indemnities may be greater than the revenue we receive from the client. Any claims or litigation in this area may be costly and result in large awards against us and, whether we ultimately win or lose, could be time-consuming, may injure our reputation, may result in costly delays or may require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. If there is a successful claim of infringement or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights we require on a timely basis, our 12 Table of Contents ability to use certain technologies, products, services and brand names may be limited, and our business may be harmed. We have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our success depends, in part, upon our plan to develop, capture and protect re-usable proprietary methodologies and other intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Our efforts in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, and we may not be able to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely action to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Depending on the circumstances, we may be required to grant a specific client certain intellectual property rights in materials developed in connection with an engagement, in which case we would seek to cross-license the use of such rights. In limited situations, however, we forego certain intellectual property rights in materials we help create, which may limit our ability to re-use such materials for other clients. Any limitation on our ability to re-use such materials could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional cost to develop new or modified materials for future projects. Risks that Relate to Our Liquidity Our current cash resources might not be sufficient to meet our expected cash needs over time. Beginning in early 2009, we will begin to become subject to significant required payments under our 2007 Credit Facility and various series of our debentures. We continue to believe that our cash balances, together with cash generated from operating activities and borrowings previously made under our 2007 Credit Facility, will be sufficient to provide adequate funds for our anticipated internal growth, operating needs and debt service obligations. However, if we cannot consistently generate sufficient positive cash flows from operating activities to fund these required payments and service our indebtedness, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely effected. We have experienced recurring net losses. We have generated positive cash flows from operating activities in only five quarters since the beginning of 2005. Historically, we have often failed, sometimes significantly, to achieve management’s periodic operating budgets and cash forecasts. For each fiscal year ending on or after December 31, 2008, we are required by our 2007 Credit Facility to repay principal in an amount equal to 50% of our Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the 2007 Credit Facility) for such year on or before the tenth business day when we are required to deliver financial statements for the applicable fiscal year, subject to certain credits for other voluntary payments we have made in any such year and certain exceptions. On April 15, 2009, we are obligated to honor the rights of the holders of our $200,000,000 5.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures to demand payment of up to the entire principal amount of those debentures. We currently expect most, if not all, of these debentures to be tendered for payment at that time. We will continue to have varying amounts of maturity payments and/or mandatory payment rights on other series of debentures in 2010, 2011 and beyond. For additional information regarding our debentures and the timing of such option, see “— Risks that Relate to Our Liquidity” and Note 6, “Notes Payable,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These ongoing, annual required payments will present a significant additional demand on our cash that we have not experienced in prior years. Therefore, we must begin to consistently generate positive cash flows from operating activities if we are to service these payments from cash generated from our business. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, whether in the ordinary course of business or upon acceleration of such indebtedness, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operation would be materially affected. 13 Table of Contents If we cannot consistently generate sufficient positive cash flows from operating activities, we will need to meet operating shortfalls and required prepayments with existing cash on hand, avail ourselves of the capital or credit markets or implement or seek alternative strategies. These alternative strategies could include seeking improvements in working capital management, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, seeking additional debt or equity capital and selling assets. There can be no assurances that existing cash will be sufficient, we will have timely access to the capital or credit markets or that any of these strategies can be implemented on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Our 2007 Credit Facility imposes a number of restrictions on the way in which we operate our business and may negatively affect our ability to finance future needs, or do so on favorable terms. If we violate these restrictions, we will be in default under the 2007 Credit Facility, which may cross-default to our other indebtedness. On May 18, 2007, we entered into a $400 million senior secured credit facility and on June 1, 2007, we amended and restated the credit facility to increase the aggregate commitments under the facility to $500 million (the “2007 Credit Facility”). The 2007 Credit Facility consists of term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $300 million (of which $297.8 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007) and a letter of credit facility in an aggregate face amount at any time outstanding not to exceed $200 million (of which $86.9 million remained available as of December 31, 2007). For more information on our 2007 Credit Facility, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Under the 2007 Credit Facility, certain of our corporate activities are restricted, which include, among other things, limitations on: disposition of assets; mergers and acquisitions; payment of dividends; stock repurchases and redemptions; incurrence of additional indebtedness; making of loans and investments; creation of liens; prepayment of other indebtedness; and engaging in certain transactions with affiliates. Any event of default under the 2007 Credit Facility or agreements governing our other significant indebtedness could lead to an acceleration of debt under the 2007 Credit Facility or other debt instruments that contain cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under the 2007 Credit Facility were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay amounts due under the 2007 Credit Facility and the other debt securities then accelerated. We may be unable to obtain new surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees in support of client engagements on acceptable terms. Some of our clients, primarily in the state and local markets, require us to obtain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees in support of client engagements. During 2007, we were required by our surety providers to fully collateralize (via cash or letters of credit) our obligations under our surety bonds. We expect this requirement of full collateralization of surety bonds to continue for the foreseeable future. If we cannot obtain or maintain surety bonds, letters of credit or bank guarantees on acceptable terms, we may be unable to maintain existing client engagements or to obtain additional client engagements that require them. In turn, our current and planned revenue, particularly from the State, Local and Education (“SLED”) sector of our Public Services industry group, could be materially and adversely affected. At December 31, 2007, we had $86.9 million remaining under the letter of credit facility of our 2007 Credit Facility. Downgrades of our credit ratings may increase our borrowing costs and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operation. On February 6, 2007, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“Standard & Poor’s”) withdrew our senior unsecured rating of B- and our subordinated debt rating of CCC+ and removed them from CreditWatch. Separately, on December 7, 2007, Moody’s confirmed our B2 corporate family rating, assigned us a negative rating outlook and downgraded the ratings of our Series A and B Debentures to Caa1 from B3. 14 Table of Contents On or after October 31, 2008, the administrative agent under our 2007 Credit Facility may require us to use commercially reasonable efforts to have our corporate credit rated by Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s. There can be no assurance we could obtain or retain a specific rating or any rating by either entity. Actions or refusals to act by the rating agencies may affect our ability to obtain financing or the terms on which such financing may be obtained. Our inability to obtain additional financing, or obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, could hinder our ability to fund general corporate requirements, affect our stock price, limit our ability to retain existing clients or compete for new business, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Our leverage may adversely affect our business and financial performance and may restrict our operating flexibility. The level of our indebtedness and our ongoing cash flow requirements for debt service and collateral maintenance: • limit cash flow available for general corporate purposes, such as capital expenditures; • limit our ability to obtain, or obtain on favorable terms, additional debt financing in the future; • limit our flexibility in reacting to competitive and other changes in our industry and economic conditions generally; • expose us to a risk that a substantial decrease in net operating cash flows due to economic developments or adverse developments in our business could make it difficult to meet debt service requirements; and • expose us to risks inherent in interest rate fluctuations because borrowings may be at variable rates of interest, which could result in high interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates. The holders of our debentures have the right, at their option, to require us to purchase some or all of our debentures upon certain dates or upon the occurrence of certain designated events, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. The holders of certain of our debentures have the right (a “put” right), as of a specified date or upon a designated event, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of our debentures, in each case, at a price in cash equal to the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. 15 Table of Contents The following table lists the maturity date and the put dates of our debentures: Debentures Maturity Date Put Date $250.0 Million 2.50% Series A Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2024 (the “Series A Debentures”) December 15, 2024 December 15, 2011 December 15, 2014 December 15, 2019 $200.0 Million 2.75% Series B Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2024 (the “Series B Debentures” and together with Series A Debentures, the “Subordinated Debentures”) December 15, 2024 December 15, 2014 December 15, 2019 $200.0 Million 5.00% Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2025 (the “April 2005 Convertible Debentures”) April 15, 2025 April 15, 2009 April 15, 2013 April 15, 2015 April 15, 2020 $40.0 Million 0.50% Convertible Senior Subordinated Debentures due 2010 (the “July 2005 Convertible Debentures”) July 15, 2010 N/A If we cannot generate sufficient positive cash flows from operating activities or otherwise honor the put rights or maturities on our debentures with our existing cash balances, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of the debentures. The holders of our debentures also have the right to require us to repurchase any outstanding debentures upon certain dates and designated events. These events include certain change of control transactions and a termination of trading, if our common stock is no longer listed for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange. If we are unable to repurchase any of our debentures when due or otherwise breach any other debenture covenants, we may be in default under the related indentures, which could lead to an acceleration of unpaid principal and accrued interest under the indentures. Any such acceleration could lead to an acceleration of amounts outstanding under our 2007 Credit Facility. In the event of any acceleration of unpaid principal and accrued interest under our 2007 Credit Facility or under the debentures, we will not be permitted to make payments to the holders of the debentures until the unpaid principal and accrued interest under our 2007 Credit Facility have been fully paid. For additional information regarding our debentures, see Note 6, “Notes Payable,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Risks that Relate to our Failure to Timely File Periodic Reports with the SEC and our Internal Control over Financial Reporting The process, training and systems issues related to financial accounting for our North American operations and the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting continue to materially affect our financial condition and results of operation. So long as we are unable to resolve these issues and remediate these material weaknesses, we will be in jeopardy of being unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC as they come due, and it is likely that our financial condition and results of operation will continue to be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, any subsequent failures to timely file any future periodic reports with the SEC could increase the likelihood or frequency of occurrence and severity of the impact of any of the risks described below. 16 Table of Contents Our continuing failure to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC poses significant risks to our business, each of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We did not timely file with the SEC our Forms 10-K for 2004, 2005 and 2006 or our Forms 10-Q for 2005, 2006 and 2007. Consequently, from March 16, 2005 to December 3, 2007 we did not timely comply with the reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) or the listing rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). If we are unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC, we may be subject to a number of significant risks, including: • If we are not timely in filing our periodic reports on or after October 31, 2008, (i) an event of default could be declared by our lenders under our senior secured credit facility, which may result in the lenders declaring our outstanding loans due and payable in whole or in part, and potentially resulting in a cross-default to one or more series of our convertible subordinated debentures and other indebtedness, and/or (ii) an event of default could be claimed by holders of one or more series of our subordinated debentures, resulting in a cross-default under our senior secured credit facility. See “— Risks that Relate to Our Liquidity.” • If the NYSE does not grant us extensions to file our periodic reports with the NYSE, it has the right to begin proceedings to delist our common stock. A delisting of our common stock would have a material adverse effect on us by, among other things: • reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • resulting in a possible event of default under and acceleration of our senior secured credit facility and triggering a right to the holders of our debentures to request us to repurchase all then outstanding debentures; and • reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby restricting our ability to obtain equity financing. • We may have difficulty retaining our clients and obtaining new clients. • We would not be eligible to use a registration statement to offer and sell freely tradable securities, thereby preventing us from accessing the public capital or credit markets or delivering shares under our equity plans. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. In 2004, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the remediation of which continues to materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition, and as of December 31, 2007, certain material weaknesses remain. Our management has conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 and has identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. These material weaknesses also contributed to management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for 2004 through 2006. A detailed description of each of these remaining material weaknesses is described in Item 9A of this Annual Report. Due to these material weaknesses, management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. The existence of these material weaknesses continues to cause us to rely on additional procedures and other measures as needed to assist us with meeting the objectives otherwise fulfilled by an effective control environment. Moreover, we continue to experience difficulty in internally producing accurate and timely forecasted financial information due, in part, to issues related to the material control weaknesses and other deficiencies 17 Table of Contents identified as part of management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting, and, until the filing of our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2007, to the delays in filing our periodic reports with the SEC. While we continue to address many of the underlying issues that have affected our ability to produce accurate internal financial forecasts, there can be no assurance that our ability to produce such forecasts has sufficiently improved to enable us to accurately and timely predict and assess the ongoing cash demands or financial needs of our business. Moreover, our difficulties in producing accurate internal financial forecasts could jeopardize the accuracy of any financial guidance we provide publicly. We have engaged in, and continue to engage in, substantial efforts to address the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or will be sufficient to address and eliminate these material weaknesses. Our inability to remedy these identified material weaknesses or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified in the future, could, among other things, cause us to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner, result in the need to restate financial results for prior periods, prevent us from providing reliable and accurate financial information and forecasts or from avoiding or detecting fraud, result in the loss of government contracts, or require us to incur further additional costs or divert management resources. Due to its inherent limitations, effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurances that transactions are properly recorded, or that the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets, or inappropriate reimbursements and expenditures, will be detected. These limitations may not prevent or detect all misstatements or fraud, regardless of their effectiveness. Furthermore, in order to sustain the timely production of our financial statements and SEC periodic reports, we must reduce the time required to prepare our financial statement accounts and balances. Until our material weaknesses have been remediated, we will not be able to fully minimize the time required to prepare our financial statement accounts and balances. Our ability to remain timely in our SEC periodic reports will depend on, among other things, our ability to increase the focus of, and maximize the cooperation from, our client engagement teams and other corporate services in providing financial information and updates into our financial closing process on a timely basis. If we are unable to achieve these efficiencies, we may be unable to sustain being timely in our SEC periodic reports. Risks that Relate to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may decline due to the number of shares that may be available for sale in the future. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Upon conversion or exercise of our outstanding convertible debt and warrants, including upon certain change of control transactions, we will issue the following number of shares of our common stock, subject to anti-dilution protection and other adjustments: Initial Per Share Total Conversion Initial Approximate Price/Exercise Conversion Number of Convertible Debt and Warrants Price($) Dates Shares Series A Debentures $ 10.50 March 31, 2005 (1) 23.8 million Series B Debentures 10.50 March 31, 2005 (1) 19.0 million April 2005 Convertible Debentures 6.60 April 27, 2005 30.3 million July 2005 Convertible Debentures 6.75 July 15, 2006 5.9 million Warrants issued in connection with the July 2005 Senior Debentures (the “July 2005 Warrants”) 8.00 July 15, 2006 3.5 million Total 82.5 million (1) The holders of the Series A Debentures and Series B Debentures have the right to convert the debentures into shares of common stock only upon the occurrence of certain triggering events. For additional information regarding the triggering events, see Note 6, “Notes Payable — Series A and Series B Convertible Subordinated Debentures,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2007, our employees held stock options to purchase 30.7 million shares, representing approximately 14% of our 215,156,077 shares of common stock then outstanding and of which 30.0 million shares are currently vested. An additional number of stock options generally will vest and become exercisable, at the exercise price indicated, during the calendar years indicated below: Exercise Price Number of Shares Range Average Calendar Year 428,520 $ 4.71 — $8.77 $ 8.07 2008 200,000 $ 7.89 — $8.70 $ 8.30 2009 Since 2005 we have significantly increased the issuance of equity in the form of restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and performance share units (“PSUs”) (collectively, “stock units”) to managing directors and other key employees, as a means of better aligning the interests of these employees with our shareholders and to enhance the retention of current managing directors. As of December 31, 2007, an aggregate of 12.2 million RSUs and 18.2 million PSUs, net of share settlements and forfeitures, were issued and outstanding. The following shares of common stock are expected to be delivered upon settlement of these stock units during the calendar years indicated below (assuming the vesting of PSUs at 100%): Number of Shares Calendar Year 4,030,861 2008 2,066,161 2009 24,195,155 2010 and thereafter Under the terms of our 2007 Credit Facility, we are limited in our ability to repurchase shares and apply share withholding for payroll tax obligations due from employees in connection with the settlement of their RSUs. Consequently, upon settlement of these RSUs, our employees are likely to sell significant numbers of their shares into the market in order to pay for their tax withholding obligations. 19 Table of Contents There are significant limitations on the ability of any person or company to acquire the Company without the approval of our Board of Directors (the “Board”). We have adopted a stockholders’ rights plan. Under this plan, after the occurrence of specified events that may result in a change of control, our stockholders will be able to purchase stock from us or our successor at half the then current market price. This right will not extend, however, to persons participating in takeover attempts without the consent of our Board or to persons whom the Board determines to be adverse to the interests of the stockholders. Accordingly, this plan could deter takeover attempts. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws each contains provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our Board. These provisions include the following, among others: • our Board is classified into three classes, each of which will serve for staggered three-year terms; • a director may be removed by our stockholders only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of our voting stock; • only our Board or the Chairman of the Board may call special meetings of our stockholders; • our stockholders may not take action by written consent; • our stockholders must comply with advance notice procedures in order to nominate candidates for election to our Board or to place stockholders’ proposals on the agenda for consideration at meetings of the stockholders; • if stockholder approval is required by applicable law, any mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets must be approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our voting stock; and • our stockholders may amend or repeal any of the foregoing provisions of our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws only by a vote of two-thirds of our voting stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 