Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our growth and future operating results, discovery and development of products, strategic alliances and intellectual property. For this purpose, any statement that is not a statement of historical fact should be considered a forward-looking statement. We often use the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will” and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. For example, there can be no guarantee that our strategic alliance with Mundipharma and Purdue will continue for its expected term or that they will fund our programs as agreed, or that any product candidate we are developing will successfully complete necessary preclinical and clinical development phases. Further, there can be no guarantee that any positive developments in our product development pipeline will result in stock price appreciation. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements, including those discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Stage of Development as a Company Our results to date do not guarantee that any of our product candidates will be safe or effective, or receive regulatory approval. The risk of failure of our current clinical candidates is high. To date, the data supporting our clinical development strategy for IPI-926, IPI-504, IPI-493, and IPI-940 are derived solely from laboratory and 21 Table of Contents preclinical studies and, in the case of IPI-926 and IPI-504, limited early-to-mid-stage clinical trials. Later clinical trials may not yield data consistent with earlier clinical trials, as was the case in our Phase 3 clinical trial of IPI-504 in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors, or GIST, which we elected to close in April 2009 when an early review of safety data showed a higher than anticipated mortality rate among patients enrolled in the treatment arm. In such a case, it may be necessary for us to change our development strategy or abandon development of that drug candidate, either of which would result in delays and additional costs. We are conducting various clinical and preclinical studies of IPI-504 and IPI-493. These studies are focused on seeking to establish a dose and schedule of administration that optimizes safety and efficacy of these candidates, and identifying patient populations, or subpopulations, most likely to benefit from Hsp90 chaperone inhibition. If these studies do not yield results we believe are necessary to warrant further development, we may elect to discontinue further development of the applicable drug candidate. It is impossible to predict when or if IPI-926, IPI-504, IPI-493, IPI-940, IPI-145 or any of our other drug candidates will prove safe or effective in humans or receive regulatory approval. These drug candidates may not demonstrate in patients the chemical and pharmacological properties ascribed to them in laboratory studies or early-stage clinical trials, and they may interact with human biological systems or other drugs in unforeseen, ineffective or harmful ways. If we are unable to discover or successfully develop drugs that are safe and effective in humans, we will not have a viable business. If our global strategic alliance with Mundipharma and Purdue, or any future alliance we may enter into, is unsuccessful, our operations may be negatively impacted. We have a global strategic alliance with Mundipharma to research, develop and jointly commercialize IPI-926, IPI-940 and product candidates arising out of our Hedgehog pathway, fatty acid amide hydrolase, or FAAH, phosphoinositide-3 kinase, or PI3K, and early discovery programs, and with Purdue to develop and commercialize product candidates arising out of our FAAH program in the United States. Under the strategic alliance agreements, Mundipharma and Purdue have committed to provide substantial funding, significant capabilities in the field of pain and, in the case of Mundipharma, significant capabilities in marketing and sales outside of the United States. In addition, we have a collaboration with Intellikine to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products targeting the delta and/or gamma isoforms of PI3K. Under this alliance, Intellikine has committed to provide significant chemistry and biochemistry capabilities. The success of these alliances is largely dependent on the resources, efforts, technology and skills brought to such alliance by our alliance partners. Disputes and difficulties in these types of relationships are common, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest. Merger and acquisition activity may exacerbate these conflicts. The benefits of our alliances will be reduced or eliminated if any of our alliance partners: • terminates the applicable strategic alliance agreement; • fails to devote financial or other resources to the applicable alliance, thereby hindering or delaying development, manufacturing or commercialization activities; • in the case of Mundipharma and Purdue, fails to successfully develop or manufacture any products arising out of our FAAH program or to commercialize any drug candidate under the applicable alliance; or • fails to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue financing its portion of development, manufacturing, and commercialization costs, if any, or its own operations. Under our agreements with Mundipharma and Purdue, each agreement may be terminated on 60 days’ prior written notice if we were to materially breach such agreement and fail to cure such breach within the 60-day notice period. In addition, each of these strategic alliance agreements may be terminated in the event we experience a change in control or in the event that, during the funded research period, either Adelene Perkins or Julian Adams is no longer a full-time executive of Infinity. Mundipharma also has the right to opt out of participation in the PI3K program, and early discovery programs in November of each calendar year, subject to 22 Table of Contents 12 months of continued funding. In addition, Mundipharma has the right to opt-out of continued development funding of our Hedgehog pathway program within 30 days following the outcome of an end-of-Phase 2 meeting with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, pertaining to the ongoing clinical trial of IPI-926 in patients with pancreatic cancer (or, if the end-of-Phase 2 meeting is not held by November 1, 2013, then by November 30, 2013), subject to prescribed residual funding obligations. If Mundipharma elects to continue participation in the Hedgehog program when it makes its next commitment, Mundipharma would thereafter have the annual November opt-out right, and one-year residual funding obligation that applies to other programs in the alliance. If Mundipharma and/or Purdue were to exercise its right to opt out of a program or to terminate its respective agreement, we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of products from the affected program, and our ability to attract a new alliance partner would be made more difficult. Much of the potential revenue from our alliance with Mundipharma and Purdue, and any alliances we may enter into in the future, will consist of contingent payments, such as royalties payable on sales of any successfully developed drugs. Any such contingent revenue will depend upon our, and our alliance partners’, ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. In some cases, we will not be involved in these processes and will depend entirely on our alliance partners. For example, Mundipharma will be responsible for all of the commercialization efforts outside of the United States for any products that are successfully developed from our Hedgehog pathway program and our early stage development programs, and Purdue and Mundipharma are jointly responsible for all development and commercialization activities for products arising out of the FAAH program. Any of our current or future alliance partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because it: • decides not to devote the necessary resources because of internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or the belief that other drug development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; • does not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the drug candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; or • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. Further, while our agreement with Intellikine precludes Intellikine from developing or commercializing products directed to the PI3K delta and/or gamma isoforms that meet certain selectivity criteria, Intellikine or other potential competitors may develop products directed to other isoforms of PI3K. If any current or future alliance partner fails to develop or effectively commercialize our drug candidates, we may not be able to develop and commercialize that drug independently, and our financial condition and operations would be negatively impacted. We have a history of operating losses, expect to incur significant and increasing operating losses in the future, and may never be consistently profitable. We have a limited operating history for you to evaluate our business. We have no approved products and have generated no product revenue from sales. We have primarily incurred operating losses. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $229.0 million. We have spent, and expect to continue to spend, significant resources to fund the research and development of IPI-926, IPI-504, IPI-493, IPI-940, IPI-145 and our other drug candidates. While we may have net income in future periods as the result of non-recurring collaboration revenue, we expect to incur substantial operating losses over the next several years as our clinical trial and drug manufacturing activities increase. As a result, we expect that our accumulated deficit will also increase significantly. 23 Table of Contents Our drug candidates are in varying stages of preclinical and clinical development and may never be approved for sale or generate any revenue. We will not be able to generate product revenue unless and until one of our drug candidates successfully completes clinical trials and receives regulatory approval. Since even our most advanced drug candidate requires substantial additional clinical development, we do not expect to receive revenue from our drug candidates for several years, if at all. Even if we eventually generate revenues, we may never be profitable, and if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We may be unable to raise the substantial additional capital that we will need to sustain our operations. We will need substantial additional funds to support our planned operations. In the absence of additional funding or business development activities and based on our current operating plans, we expect that our current cash and investments, together with research and development funding from Mundipharma International Corporation Limited, or Mundipharma, and Purdue Pharmaceutical Products L.P., or Purdue, and the $50 million line of credit that has been made available to us by Purdue Pharma L.P., are sufficient to fund our planned operations into 2014. We may, however, need to raise additional funds before that date if our research and development expenses exceed our current expectations or if we do not receive the payments we expect to receive from Mundipharma and Purdue. We may need to raise additional funds for other reasons, including if: • our drug candidates require more extensive clinical or preclinical testing than we currently expect; • we advance more of our drug candidates than expected into costly later stage clinical trials; • we advance more preclinical drug candidates than expected into early stage clinical trials; • the cost of acquiring raw materials for, and of manufacturing, our drug candidates is higher than anticipated; • we acquire a third party or license rights to additional drug candidates or new technologies from one or more third parties; • we are required, or consider it advisable, to acquire or license intellectual property rights from one or more third parties; • Mundipharma or Purdue elects to discontinue its participation in a partnered program; or • we experience a loss in our investments due to general market conditions or other reasons. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings of equity or debt securities, but such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly in light of current market conditions. In addition, the terms of such financings may be dilutive to, or otherwise adversely affect, holders of our common stock, and such terms may impact our ability to make capital expenditures or incur additional debt. We may also seek additional funds through arrangements with collaborators or other third parties, or through project financing. These arrangements would generally require us to relinquish or encumber rights to some of our technologies or drug candidates, and we may not be able to enter into such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on a timely basis, we may be required to curtail or terminate some or all of our product development programs. If we are not able to attract and retain key personnel and advisors, we may not be able to operate our business successfully. We are highly dependent on our management team, particularly Adelene Perkins and Julian Adams, and the other members of our executive leadership team. All of these individuals are employees-at-will, which means that neither Infinity nor the employee is obligated to a fixed term of service and that the employment relationship may be terminated by either Infinity or the employee at any time, without notice, and whether or not cause or good reason exists for such termination. The loss of the services of any of these individuals might impede the 24 Table of Contents achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. For example, Purdue and Mundipharma each have the right to terminate its strategic alliance with us if, during the funded research period, either Adelene Perkins or Julian Adams is no longer a full-time executive of Infinity. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and business personnel is also critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. This competition is particularly intense near our headquarters in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by other entities, have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with third parties that limit their availability to us, or both. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could adversely affect our operations. Our ability to manage our growth effectively depends upon the continual improvement of our processes and procedures, and the preservation of our corporate culture. We may not be able to implement improvements in an efficient or timely manner, or maintain our corporate culture through organizational change. If we do not meet these challenges, we may be unable to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, which in turn may slow our growth or give rise to inefficiencies that would increase our losses or delay our programs. We may acquire additional technology and complementary businesses in the future. Acquisitions involve many risks, any one of which could materially harm our business, including the diversion of management’s attention from core business concerns, failure to exploit acquired technologies, or the loss of key employees from either our business or the acquired business. Our investments are subject to risks that may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $101 million in cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities. We historically have invested these amounts in money market funds, corporate obligations, U.S. government-sponsored enterprise obligations, U.S. Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. We may realize losses in the fair value of these investments or a complete loss of these investments. In addition, should our investments cease paying or reduce the amount of interest paid to us, our interest income would suffer. These market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On March 15, 2011, we restated our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2010 and 2009. The restatement could cause our stock price to decline and could subject us to securities litigation. Following a routine review by the staff of the SEC of our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and based upon the determination of the audit committee of our board of directors, we recently restated our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2010 and 2009 as reflected in an amended 2009 annual report on Form 10-K/A and amended quarterly reports on Form 10-Q/A for the applicable periods. We have restated (i) our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 by increasing amounts reported in deferred revenue (short term and long term) and total current liabilities and total liabilities, and reducing amounts reported in additional paid-in capital, or APIC, and accumulated deficit and total stockholders’ equity; (ii) our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 by increasing amounts reported in collaborative research and development revenue 25 Table of Contents from Purdue entities and total revenue and decreasing amounts reported in loss from operations, loss before income taxes, net loss, and basic and diluted loss per common share; and (iii) our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 by increasing amounts reported in collaborative research and development revenue from Purdue entities, total revenue, income from operations, net income, and basic and diluted earnings per common share. As a result of these restatements, amounts in our consolidated statements of cash flows and stockholders’ equity for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 have also been corrected. Our total cash flows from operations in these periods remain unchanged. The restatement relates to our accounting for the initial recognition of a loan commitment representing the future availability to us, on below-market terms, of the $50 million line of credit extended to us by Purdue, and its independent associated company, Purdue Pharma L.P., or PPLP, in November 2008 upon entry into a strategic alliance with Purdue and Mundipharma. This written loan commitment, or loan commitment asset, met the definition of a financial instrument and we therefore recorded it as an asset. We determined that the fair value of the loan commitment asset was $17.3 million. We recorded the fair value of this asset in 2008 and began amortizing this balance to interest expense over the life of the loan arrangement, or ten years, on April 1, 2009, the date at which we could first draw upon the line of credit. Once we concluded that the loan commitment asset should be recorded at fair value, we were required to record an offsetting credit. Based on our evaluation of the relevant accounting guidance, we initially recorded the offset to the loan commitment asset to APIC, in part because Purdue and its associated companies would be principal stockholders at the time we could benefit from favorable terms of the line of credit. Following discussions with the SEC staff, we have determined the offset to the loan commitment asset should have been recorded as deferred revenue rather than APIC. We are amortizing the deferred revenue to revenue over the 14 year period beginning in November 2008 (approximately $300,000 per quarter), which is our estimated period of performance under the strategic alliance. The restatement could result in a decline in our stock price and securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought in connection with restatements of financial statements. Defending against such potential litigation relating to a restatement of our financial statements would be expensive and would require significant attention and resources of our management. Moreover, our insurance to cover our obligations with respect to the ultimate resolution of any such litigation may be inadequate. As a result of these factors, any such potential litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The estimates and judgments we make, or the assumptions on which we rely, in preparing our consolidated financial statements could prove inaccurate. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Such estimates and judgments include those related to revenue recognition, accrued expenses, assumptions in the valuation of stock-based compensation and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, facts and circumstances known to us and on various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates and judgments, or the assumptions underlying them, may change over time or prove inaccurate. For example, in March 2011, we restated our financial statements for certain prior periods to correct the way we had previously recorded the offset to the loan commitment asset related to a line of credit extended to us by Purdue and PPLP. For a further discussion of this restatement, see the foregoing discussion in the risk factor captioned “On March 15, 2011, we restated our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2010 and 2009. The restatement could cause our stock price to decline and could subject us to securities litigation.” 26 Table of Contents If we are not able to maintain effective internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us, on an annual basis, to review and evaluate our internal controls, and requires our independent auditors to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Any failure by us to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as such requirements exist today or may be modified, supplemented or amended in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates All of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. This process is highly uncertain and we may never be able to obtain marketing approval for any of our drug candidates. To date, we have not obtained approval from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority to market or sell any of our drug candidates. Our success depends primarily upon our, and our strategic alliance partners’, ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. Our Hedgehog pathway inhibitor, IPI-926 is being evaluated in the Phase 2 portion of a Phase 1b/2 clinical trial and Phase 1 clinical trial. Our two drug candidates in our Hsp90 program are IPI-504, which is currently being evaluated in a Phase 1b clinical trial as well as an investigator-sponsored trial, and IPI-493, which is being evaluated in two Phase 1 clinical trials. We are completing Phase 1 development of IPI-940, our FAAH inhibitor. We also have other drug candidates in various stages of preclinical development and discovery research, including IPI-145, the lead compound in our PI3K inhibitor program. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions prior to the commercial sale of medicinal products like our drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing, or may in the future develop, either alone or in collaboration with strategic alliance partners, will obtain marketing approval. In connection with the clinical trials of IPI-926, IPI-504, IPI-493, IPI-940 and any other drug candidate we may seek to develop in the future, including IPI-145, we face, among other risks, risks that: • the drug candidate may not prove to be safe or effective; • the results of later trials may not confirm positive results from earlier preclinical studies or clinical trials, as was the case with our Phase 3 clinical trial of IPI-504 in GIST; and • the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities. We are conducting various clinical and preclinical studies of IPI-504 and IPI-493. These studies are focused on seeking to establish a dose and schedule of administration that optimizes safety and efficacy of these candidates, and identifying patient populations, or subpopulations, most likely to benefit from Hsp90 chaperone inhibition. If these studies do not yield results we believe are necessary to warrant further development, we may elect to discontinue further development of the applicable drug candidate. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory agencies. The time required to complete clinical trials and for regulatory review by the FDA and other countries’ regulatory agencies is uncertain and typically takes many years. Some of our drug candidates may be eligible for the FDA’s programs that are designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of certain drugs, but we cannot provide any assurance that any of our drug candidates will qualify for one or more of these programs. Even if a drug 27 Table of Contents candidate qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to changes in government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate. Furthermore, the uses for which any regulatory authority may grant approval to market a product may be limited, thus placing limitations on the manner in which we may market the product and limiting its market potential. Our drug candidates must undergo rigorous clinical trials prior to receipt of regulatory approval. Any problems in these clinical trials could delay or prevent commercialization of our drug candidates. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, as was the case with our decision to close our Phase 3 clinical trial of IPI-504 in GIST, or to delay the analysis of data from ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: • unexpected or unfavorable results of discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in receiving, or the inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients into clinical trials; • a lower than anticipated retention rate of patients in clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or unforeseen complications in testing; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug product or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; • a finding that the trial participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • the placement by the FDA of a clinical hold on a trial; or • any restrictions on, or post-approval commitments with regard to, any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain that render the drug candidate not commercially viable. We may suspend, or the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may require us to suspend, clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the patients participating in such clinical trials, or in independent third party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. 28 Table of Contents The delay, suspension or discontinuation of any of our clinical trials or a delay in the analysis of clinical data for our drug candidates, for any of the foregoing reasons, could adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize our drug candidates, increase our operating expenses, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to enroll sufficient numbers of patients in our clinical trials, or any delays in patient enrollment, can result in increased costs and longer development periods for our drug candidates. Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the trial protocol; • the number of clinical trial sites and the proximity of patients to those sites; • the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease; • the eligibility criteria for the trial; • the commitment of clinical investigators to identify eligible patients; and • competing studies or trials. Our failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trial beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of subjects than has been projected for any of our drug candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled patients may drop out of a clinical trial, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trial. A number of factors can influence the patient discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: • the inclusion of a placebo arm in a trial; • possible inactivity or low activity of the drug candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; • the occurrence of adverse side effects, whether or not related to the drug candidate; and • the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce patients to discontinue their participation in the trial. A delay in our clinical trial activities could adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize our drug candidates, increase our operating expenses, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and external investigators to enroll qualified patients, conduct our clinical trials and provide services in connection with such clinical trials, and we intend to rely on these and other similar entities in the future. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Replacing a third party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial and unplanned costs. If this were to occur, our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize our drug candidates may be delayed. In addition, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocol for the trial. The FDA requires us to comply with certain standards, referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure 29 Table of Contents that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If any of our trial investigators or third party contractors does not comply with good clinical practices, we may not be able to use the data and reported results from the trial. If this were to occur, our efforts to obtain regulatory approval for and to commercialize our drug candidates may be delayed. Manufacturing difficulties could delay or preclude commercialization of our drug candidates and substantially increase our expenses. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. The third party manufacturers on which we rely may not be able to comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of systems to control and assure the quality of products. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMPs and other quality standards. Any failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing and quality control standards could result in the inability of our drug candidates to be released for use in one or more countries. In addition, such a failure could result in, among other things, patient injury or death, product liability claims, penalties or other monetary sanctions, the failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our drug candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of drug candidates or products, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supply of our drug candidates and seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may also encounter difficulties involving production yields or delays in performing their services. We do not have control over third party manufacturers’ performance and compliance with these applicable regulations and standards. If, for any reason, our manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be unable to replace such third party manufacturers in a timely manner and the production of our drug candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. Switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and, depending on the type of material manufactured at the contract facility, the change in contract manufacturer must be submitted to and/or approved by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities outside of the United States. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of regulatory approval. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured for preclinical testing and clinical trials primarily by third party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our other drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any approved drug candidates in a timely or economical manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing might entail changes in the manufacturing process that have to be submitted to or approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. If contract manufacturers engaged by us are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. A natural product is utilized in the production of IPI-926. This product is currently supplied from naturally available plant material. Our ability to acquire and process sufficient amounts of plant material to meet our manufacturing requirements is subject to a number of risks, including the receipt of permits from federal and state authorities, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters that may impact plant availability or our ability to harvest it. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in identifying other locations where this plant naturally occurs or establishing a sustainable method for growing this plant in a controlled environment. A material shortage of this plant could adversely impact or disrupt the manufacture of IPI-926, thus impacting our clinical trial activities and, if IPI-926 is successfully developed, our ability to satisfy commercial demand for the product, thus adversely affecting our financial position and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents We have certain commercialization rights to our product portfolio, but we currently have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities. We currently have commercialization rights in the United States for products arising out of our all of our programs, except the FAAH program, and worldwide commercialization rights for our Hsp90 chaperone inhibitor program, including IPI-504 and IPI-493. In order to successfully commercialize our drug candidates, we will need to, and we intend to, establish adequate marketing, sales and distribution capabilities. We may not successfully establish these capabilities or have sufficient resources to do so. If we do not establish adequate marketing and sales capabilities, our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidates that we successfully develop will be adversely affected, as will our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we do develop such capabilities, we will compete with other companies that have more experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations, and we will incur additional expenses. If physicians and patients do not accept our future drugs, we may not be able to generate significant revenues from product sales. Even if any of our drug candidates obtains regulatory approval, that product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community for a variety of reasons including: • timing of our receipt of any marketing approvals, the terms of any such approvals and the countries in which any such approvals are obtained; • timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; • lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; • lack of cost-effectiveness; • lack of reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party payors; • inconvenient or difficult administration; • prevalence and severity of side effects; • potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; • safety concerns with similar drugs marketed by others; • the reluctance of the target population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe those therapies; • the success of our physician education programs; and • ineffective sales, marketing and distribution support. If any of our approved drugs fails to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate significant revenue from those drugs or achieve profitability. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for marketing our drug candidates, we could lose our regulatory approvals and our business would be adversely affected if we, our collaborators, or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with continuing regulatory requirements. The FDA continues to review products even after they receive initial approval. If we receive approval to commercialize any of our drug candidates, the manufacturing, marketing and sale of these drugs will be subject to continuing regulation, including compliance with quality systems regulations, good manufacturing practices, adverse event requirements, and prohibitions on promoting a product for unapproved uses. Enforcement actions resulting from our failure to comply with government and regulatory requirements could result in fines, suspension of approvals, withdrawal of approvals, product recalls, product seizures, mandatory operating 31 Table of Contents restrictions, criminal prosecution, civil penalties and other actions that could impair the manufacturing, marketing and sale of our drug candidates and our ability to conduct our business. If our drug candidates exhibit harmful side effects after approval, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted, and we could become subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates, we will have tested them in only a small number of patients during our clinical trials. If our applications for marketing are approved and more patients begin to use our products, new risks and side effects associated with our products may be discovered. In addition, supplemental clinical trials that may be conducted on a drug following its initial approval may produce findings that are inconsistent with the trial results previously submitted to regulatory authorities. As a result, regulatory authorities may revoke their approvals, or we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of our product, reformulate our product or make changes and obtain new approvals for our and our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities. We also might have to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. Any safety concerns with respect to a product may also result in a significant drop in the potential sales of that product, damage to our reputation in the marketplace, or result in us becoming subject to lawsuits, including class actions. Any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales of our approved product or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our product. We are subject to uncertainty relating to reimbursement policies which could hinder or prevent the commercial success of our drug candidates. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend in part on the coverage and reimbursement levels set by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. As a threshold for coverage and reimbursement, third-party payors generally require that drug products have been approved for marketing by the FDA. Third-party payors also are increasingly challenging the effectiveness of and prices charged for medical products and services. We may not obtain adequate third-party coverage or reimbursement for our drug candidates or we may be required to sell our drug candidates at prices that are below our expectations. We expect that private insurers will consider the efficacy, cost effectiveness and safety of our drug candidates in determining whether to approve reimbursement for our drug candidates and at what level. Obtaining these approvals can be a time consuming and expensive process. Our business would be materially adversely affected if we do not receive approval for reimbursement of our drug candidates from private insurers on a timely or satisfactory basis. Our business could also be adversely affected if private insurers, including managed care organizations, the Medicare program or other reimbursing bodies or payors limit the indications for which our drug candidates will be reimbursed to a smaller set than we believe our drug candidates are effective in treating. In some foreign countries, particularly Canada and the countries of Europe, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to strict governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take six to 12 months or longer after the receipt of regulatory approval and product launch. To obtain favorable reimbursement for the indications sought or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our drug candidates to other available therapies. If reimbursement for our products is unavailable in any country in which reimbursement is sought, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of our drug candidates and our future products due to the potential healthcare reforms discussed below, as well as the trend toward programs aimed at reducing health care costs, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations and additional legislative proposals. 32 Table of Contents Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any government-adopted reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices for our products which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. In both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our potential products, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, President Obama signed into law a legislative overhaul of the U.S. healthcare system, known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Healthcare and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. This law, which we refer to as the PPACA, may have far reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services and drugs. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of private payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for prescribed drugs, including our product candidates. If reimbursement for our approved product candidates, if any, is substantially less that we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 reformed the way Medicare will cover and reimburse for pharmaceutical products. This legislation could also decrease the coverage and price that we may receive for our products. Other third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicare and private payors. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. Further federal and state proposals and health care reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the product candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the PPACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to comply with applicable “fraud and abuse” and other laws and regulations where our drug candidates may ultimately be sold. As our pipeline of drug candidates matures, we are becoming increasingly subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations, including but not limited to health care “fraud and abuse” and patient privacy laws and regulations by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. These laws and regulations include: • the federal healthcare program anti-kickback law, which prohibits, among other things, persons from soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce either the referral of an 33 Table of Contents individual, for an item or service or the purchasing or ordering of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, and which may apply to entities like us which provide coding and billing advice to customers; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which prohibits executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters and which also imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, which among other things, strictly regulates drug product marketing, prohibits manufacturers from marketing drug products for off-label use and regulates the distribution of drug samples; and • state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, and state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by federal laws, thus complicating compliance efforts. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. We are developing and implementing a corporate compliance program designed to ensure that we will market and sell any drug candidates that we successfully develop in compliance with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations, but we cannot guarantee that this program will protect us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions. Risks Related to Our Field Our competitors and potential competitors may develop products that make ours less attractive or obsolete. In building our product development pipeline, we have intentionally pursued targets with applicability across multiple therapeutic areas and indications. This approach gives us several product opportunities in oncology, inflammatory disease and pain, which are highly competitive and rapidly changing segments of the pharmaceutical industry. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target various diseases in these segments. We currently face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Moreover, there are a number of large pharmaceutical companies currently marketing and selling products in these segments including Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. and its subsidiary Genentech, Inc., Novartis AG and Pfizer, Inc. In addition to currently approved drugs, there are a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of various forms of cancer, inflammatory diseases and pain. We are also aware of a number of companies seeking to develop drug candidates directed to the same biological targets that our own drug candidates are designed to inhibit. Specifically, we are aware of numerous companies that have clinical development programs for compounds targeting the Hedgehog pathway, which is the target of IPI-926. These companies include without limitation, Genentech, Inc. (through its collaboration with Curis, Inc.), Bristol Myers 34 Table of Contents Squibb Company (through its collaboration with Exelixis, Inc.), Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc. and Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited). In addition, we believe the following companies are developing compounds that target Hsp90, which is the target of IPI-504 and IPI-493: Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp., Vernalis plc (in collaboration with Novartis), Astex Therapeutics Limited, Exelixis, Inc., Myrexis, Inc., Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd., Celgene Corporation, Novartis AG and Debiopharm Group. Also, we believe that Calistoga Pharmaceuticals, which has entered into an agreement to be acquired by Gilead Sciences, Inc., Novartis AG, Pfizer, Inc., Semafore Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bayer AG, GlaxoSmithKline plc, sanofi-aventis (through its collaboration with Exelixis, Inc.), Genentech, Inc. and Oncothyreon Inc. are developing drugs that target PI3K. Finally, we believe that Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing inhibitors of FAAH. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than us, and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; • more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; and/or • drug candidates that have been approved or are in later-stage clinical development than our own drug candidates. Our competitors may commence and complete clinical testing of their product candidates, obtain regulatory approvals, and begin commercialization of their products sooner than we and/or our strategic alliance partners may for our own drug candidates. These competitive products may have superior safety or efficacy, have more attractive pharmacologic properties, or may be manufactured less expensively than our drug candidates. If we are unable to compete effectively against these companies on the basis of safety, efficacy or cost, then we may not be able to commercialize our drug candidates or achieve a competitive position in the market. This would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We may have significant product liability exposure that may harm our business and our reputation. We face exposure to significant product liability or other claims if any of our drug candidates is alleged to have caused harm. These risks are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of human medicinal products. Although we do not currently commercialize any products, claims could be made against us based on the use of our drug candidates in clinical trials. We currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the commercial launch of any of our drug candidates. Our insurance may not, however, provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products or product candidates, our liability could exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets, and we would need to divert management attention to our defense. Claims against us, regardless of their merit or potential outcome, may also generate negative publicity or hurt our ability to recruit investigators and patients to our clinical trials, obtain physician acceptance of our products, or expand our business. We work with hazardous materials that may expose us to liability. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including infectious agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals, various radioactive compounds, and compounds known to cause birth defects. We are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. We incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, regulatory authorities may curtail our use of these materials, 35 Table of Contents and we could be liable for any civil damages that result. These damages may exceed our financial resources or insurance coverage, and may seriously harm our business. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. Security breaches may disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Our network security and data recovery measures may not be adequate to protect against computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to any of our proprietary and confidential information that is electronically stored, including research or clinical data, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any break-in or trespass of our facilities that results in the misappropriation, theft, sabotage or any other type of security breach with respect to our proprietary and confidential information, including research or clinical data, or that results in damage to our research and development equipment and assets could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our success depends substantially upon our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our drug candidates. We own or hold exclusive licenses to a number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications directed to our drug candidates. Our success depends on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our drug candidates, their methods of manufacture and methods of their use. Our ability to protect our drug candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends substantially on our ability to obtain and enforce our patents. Our lead oral Hsp90 candidate, IPI-493, contains an active pharmaceutical ingredient for which we believe composition of matter protection is unavailable. Consequently, we have filed patent applications directed to IPI-493 and other novel formulations of this active pharmaceutical ingredient, as well as methods of their use, which may not provide the same level of protection as composition of matter patent protection on the active pharmaceutical ingredient itself. Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the claim scope of these patents, our ability to obtain and enforce patents that may issue from any pending or future patent applications is uncertain and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and are subject to change. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical patents. Thus, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents do issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents will be held valid or enforceable by a court of law, will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products, or will afford us a commercial advantage over competitive products. In addition, the U.S. Congress has considered, and may consider in the future, legislation that could change United States law regarding, among other things, post-grant review of issued patents and the calculation of damages once patent infringement has been determined by a court of law. If enacted into law, these provisions could severely weaken patent protection in the United States. If we do not obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our products in the United States, competitors could duplicate them without repeating the extensive testing that we had been required to undertake to obtain approval of the products by the FDA. Regardless of any patent protection, under the current statutory framework the FDA is prohibited by law from approving any generic version of any of our products for up to five years after it has approved our product. Upon the expiration of that period, or if that time period is altered, the FDA could approve a generic version of our product unless we have patent protection sufficient for us to 36 Table of Contents block that generic version. Without sufficient patent protection, the applicant for a generic version of our product would only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that its product is bioequivalent to our product, and would not have to repeat the studies that we conducted to demonstrate that the product is safe and effective. In the absence of adequate patent protection in other countries, competitors may similarly be able to obtain regulatory approval in those countries of products that duplicate our products. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. Many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Some of our development efforts are performed in China, India, and other countries outside of the United States through third party contractors. We may not be able to monitor and assess intellectual property developed by these contractors effectively; therefore, we may not appropriately protect this intellectual property and could thus lose valuable intellectual property rights. In addition, the legal protection afforded to inventors and owners of intellectual property in countries outside of the United States may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as in the United States, and we may, therefore, be unable to acquire and protect intellectual property developed by these contractors to the same extent as if these development activities were being conducted in the United States. If we encounter difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. In addition, we rely on intellectual property assignment agreements with our strategic alliance partners, vendors, employees, consultants, scientific advisors and other collaborators to grant us ownership of new intellectual property that is developed by them. These agreements may not result in the effective assignment to us of that intellectual property. As a result, our ownership of key intellectual property could be compromised. Patent interference, opposition or similar proceedings relating to our intellectual property portfolio are costly, and an unfavorable outcome could prevent us from commercializing our drug candidates. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the PTO for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our drug candidates or their therapeutic use. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the PTO or the third party to determine priority of invention in the United States. For example, we are aware of third parties who are actively researching ansamycin analogs that are similar to IPI-504. These third parties have pending applications related to these analogs, but we have the first published application covering IPI-504. Notwithstanding the fact that we filed the first patent application related to these analogs, it is possible that an interference proceeding could be declared between our application covering IPI-504 and one or more of these third party applications, even those applications for which we have secured a license. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application. In addition, the cost of interference proceedings could be substantial. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. The PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other provisions during the patent process. There are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. In such an event, competitors might be able to enter the market earlier than would otherwise have been the case. 37 Table of Contents Claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement are costly and distracting, and could deprive us of valuable rights we need to develop or commercialize our drug candidates. Our commercial success will depend on whether there are third party patents or other intellectual property relevant to our potential products that may block or hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates. We may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that may adversely affect our business either by blocking our ability to manufacture or commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that adversely affect the applicable market. In addition, we may undertake research and development with respect to potential products, even when we are aware of third party patents that may be relevant to such potential products, on the basis that we may challenge or license such patents. For example, in our Hsp90 chaperone inhibitor program, we are conducting a clinical trial evaluating the administration of IPI-504 in combination with docetaxel, and we may conduct additional trials with IPI-504 in combination with other therapeutic agents. We are aware of issued patents and published applications directed to combinations of Hsp90 chaperone inhibitors with a variety of other therapeutic agents. We are also aware of patents and patent applications directed to methods of treating various disorders using a variety of Hsp90 chaperone inhibitors. We are in the process of evaluating the scope and validity of these patents and applications to determine whether we need to obtain one or more licenses. While we are not currently aware of any litigation or third party claims of intellectual property infringement related to our drug candidates, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents and claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending against any claims that the manufacture and sale of our potential products or use of our technologies infringes any patents, or defending against any claim that we are employing any proprietary technology without authorization. The outcome of patent litigation is subject to uncertainties that cannot be adequately quantified in advance, including the demeanor and credibility of witnesses and the identity of the adverse party, especially in pharmaceutical patent cases that may turn on the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop developing, manufacturing and/or commercializing the infringing drug candidates or approved products; • develop non-infringing products, technologies and methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from other parties, which could result in our paying substantial royalties or the granting of cross-licenses to our technologies. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we may be unable to commercialize the affected products, or we may elect to cease certain of our business operations, either of which could severely harm our business. We may undertake infringement or other legal proceedings against third parties, causing us to spend substantial resources on litigation and exposing our own intellectual property portfolio to challenge. Competitors may infringe our patents. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement suits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents is invalid, unenforceable, or both. Even if the validity of our patents is upheld, a court may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that the other party’s activities are not covered by our patents. In this case, third parties may be able to use our patented technology without paying licensing fees or royalties. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, third parties may affirmatively challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of, our patent rights. 38 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our vendors, strategic alliance partners, employees, consultants, scientific advisors, clinical investigators and other collaborators. We generally require each of these individuals and entities to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of a relationship with us. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, we may rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are, however, difficult to protect. Others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside of the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights and could result in a diversion of management’s attention, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we fail to obtain necessary or useful licenses to intellectual property, we could encounter substantial delays in the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We may decide to license third-party technology that we deem necessary or useful for our business. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we could encounter substantial delays in developing and commercializing our drug candidates while we attempt to develop alternative technologies, methods and drug candidates, which we may not be able to accomplish. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with our obligations under our third party license agreements, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. For example, if we fail to use diligent efforts to develop and commercialize compounds and products licensed under our development and license agreement with Intellikine, we could lose our license rights under that agreement, including rights to IPI-145. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our common stock may have a volatile trading price and low trading volume. The market price of our common stock has been and could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the results of our current and any future clinical trials of IPI-926, IPI-504, IPI-493, IPI-940 and our other drug candidates; • the results of preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our discovery-stage programs; • product portfolio decisions resulting in the delay or termination of our product development programs; • future sales of, and the trading volume in, our common stock; • our entry into key agreements, including those related to the acquisition or in-licensing of new programs, or the termination of key agreements, including our strategic alliance agreements with Purdue and Mundipharma and our development and license agreement with Intellikine, Inc.; • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our drug candidates; • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; 39 Table of Contents • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to defend product liability claims; • the failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or any approved products; • the loss of key employees; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts who cover our common stock; • future financings through the issuance of equity or debt securities or otherwise; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; • our cash position and period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • general and industry-specific economic conditions. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, as our stock price may be, holders of that stock have occasionally brought securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders were to bring a lawsuit of this type against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, negative publicity could be generated and we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. A stockholder lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, so you must rely on stock price appreciation for any return on your investment. We anticipate retaining any future earnings for reinvestment in our research and development programs. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Our stockholder rights plan, anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents, and Delaware law may make an acquisition of us difficult. We are a party to a stockholder rights plan, also referred to as a poison pill, which is intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any unsolicited proposed acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to the potential acquirer. In addition, we are incorporated in Delaware. Anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our organizational documents may make a change in control more difficult. Also, under Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures. For example, our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 901,000 shares of currently undesignated preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by our stockholders. If our board of directors exercises this power, it could be more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter and by-laws also contain provisions limiting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders. Our stock incentive plan generally permits our board of directors to provide for acceleration of vesting of options granted under that plan in the event of certain transactions that result in a change of control. If our board of directors uses its authority to accelerate vesting of options, this action could make an acquisition more costly, and it could prevent an acquisition from going forward. 40 Table of Contents Under Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors could use this provision to vote against any such transaction. The existence of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our officers, directors and major shareholders may be able to exert significant control over the company, which may make an acquisition of us difficult. Our executive officers, directors, certain affiliates and other major shareholders control approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock and have the ability to influence the company through this ownership position. For example, as a result of this concentration of ownership, these stockholders, if acting together, may have the ability to affect the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or similar transaction. This concentration of ownership may, therefore, harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Infinity; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving Infinity; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of Infinity. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 