D. Risk factors Risks Relating to Maxcom We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations and implement our business plan. Our business plan, including the expansion of our network and services, requires significant capital expenditures. In turn, our ability to fund these planned capital expenditures as well our operating expenses and our debt service obligations will depend on our ability to develop a significantly larger customer base and increase our operating cash flows. However, we may not succeed in attracting more customers and as a result our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flows to implement our business plan or even meet our existing debt service obligations. For example, from our incorporation in 1996 through 2003 we generated negative operating cash flows. If we cannot service our debt obligations, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, or restructuring our indebtedness pursuant to in court or out of court procedures, any of which could inhibit the implementation of our business plan and materially harm our operating results and financial condition. Because we have a history of losses and may continue to incur significant expenses, we cannot be certain that we will achieve profitability. We incurred net losses of U.S.$2.7 million (Ps.29.3 million) for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although for the year ended December 31, 2007 we had net income of US$3.3 million (Ps.36.2 million). We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the expansion of our network, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability and, if we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If we fail to achieve profitability within the time frame expected by our investors, the market price of our securities will be adversely affected. We may be unable to build out our network in a timely manner or without undue cost. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend in large part upon the successful, timely and cost effective buildout of our network. Factors that could affect such buildout include: • municipal or regional political events or local rulings; • our ability to obtain permits to use public rights of way; • our ability to generate cash flow or to obtain future financing necessary for such buildout; • unforeseen delays, costs or impediments relating to the granting of municipal and state permits for our buildout; • delays or disruptions resulting from physical damage, power loss, defective equipment or the failure of third party suppliers or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner; and 5 • regulatory and political risks relating to Mexico, such as the revocation or termination of our concessions, the temporary seizure or permanent expropriation of assets, import and export controls, political instability, changes in the regulation of telecommunications and any future restrictions or easing of restrictions on the repatriation of profits or on foreign investment. Although we believe that our cost estimates and buildout schedule are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the actual construction costs or time required to complete the buildout will not substantially exceed our current estimates. Any significant cost overrun or delay could hinder or prevent the successful implementation of our business plan, including the development of a significantly larger customer base, and result in revenues and net income being less than expected. The loss of key personnel could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are managed by a small number of executive officers and key management personnel. Our continued success, including our ability to effectively expand our network, provide existing services and develop and introduce new services, largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key management employees, as well as our ability to hire and retain highly skilled and qualified management personnel. Between 2000 and 2004, we experienced significant turnover in our executive ranks, including in the positions of chief executive officer, chief marketing officer and chief financial officer, which adversely affected our ability to develop and execute our business strategies during such period. The competition for highly qualified management personnel in the telecommunications industry is intense and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the necessary management personnel. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if, for any reason, a number of our officers including our Chief Executive Officer, René Sagastuy, our Chief Financial Officer, José Antonio Solbes, our Chief Operating and Technology Officer, Ricardo Arévalo Ruiz and our Vice President of Residential Sales, Alejandro Díaz y Díaz, or key employees do not remain with us and we were unable to promptly replace them with qualified personnel. We may not have sufficient personnel to grow as rapidly as we would like. Our expected rate of growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial personnel. We anticipate that continued growth will require us to recruit and hire a significant number of new non-executive managerial, finance, sales and marketing, accounting and support personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel who can support the implementation of our business plan, our growth may be limited and the quality of our services may be impaired. If we have to pay Telmex local interconnection fees, we may not be able to provide services at competitive rates. Teléfonos de México, S.A.B. de C.V., or Telmex, and its affiliates exert significant influence on all aspects of the telecommunications market in Mexico, including interconnection agreements for local and long-distance services. We use Telmex’s network for call termination to service virtually all of our customers’ calls to Telmex’s customers. Our current local interconnection agreement with Telmex incorporates a “bill and keep” procedure under which we do not pay Telmex an interconnection fee unless we exceed a certain level of traffic imbalance. Under the “bill and keep” arrangement, if the imbalance between calls originated by Telmex and terminated by Maxcom and calls originated by Maxcom and terminated by Telmex during a month does not exceed 5%, excluding commercial traffic and customers who have had contracts for less than 180 days, then no interconnection fee amounts are payable by the net carrier of interconnection services. The interconnection rate is currently Ps.0.1065 (U.S.$0.00975) per minute. If the allowed percentage for imbalance of traffic for the “bill and keep” procedure is exceeded and/or if the “bill and keep” procedure is eliminated and we have to pay Telmex for local interconnection, our operating costs may increase and we may not be able to offer services at competitive rates. Our inability to successfully upgrade our accounting, billing, customer service and management information systems as new technology becomes available could increase our churn rates, inhibit our ability to attract new customers and result in decreased revenue and increased costs. Sophisticated information and processing systems are important to our existing operations and future growth and our ability to monitor costs, deliver invoices, process customer orders, provide customer service and 6 achieve operating efficiencies. While we have installed systems we deem necessary to conduct our operations efficiently, we intend to upgrade our accounting, information and processing systems as new and more cost efficient technology becomes available. We believe we have budgeted for the applicable expenditures and will have sufficient resources to make such investments. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully upgrade such systems as technology advances and any inability to do so could increase our churn rates, inhibit our ability to attract new customers and result in decreased revenue and increased costs. Service interruptions due to natural disasters or unanticipated problems with our network infrastructure could result in customer loss. Natural disasters or unanticipated problems with our network infrastructure could cause interruptions in the services we provide. The failure of a switch would result in the interruption of service to the customers served by that switch until necessary repairs are completed or replacement equipment is installed. The successful operation of our network and its components is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain the network and its components in reliable enough working order to provide sufficient quality of service to attract and maintain customers. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations or lack of adequate maintenance of our network could result in the loss of customers and increased maintenance costs that would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We could be negatively affected by “by-pass” international traffic. Pursuant to Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission regulations, international long-distance traffic in Mexico must be routed and terminated through authorized international gateways at established international settlement rates. However, less expensive alternatives which by-pass authorized gateways exist, particularly in the case of countries with whom Mexico exchanges a significant amount of traffic. Given the disparity between the government-authorized and alternative long-distance interconnection and termination rates through local service routes and/or Internet Protocol services, an increasing portion of the long-distance market between Mexico and the United States is served by entities that circumvent or “by-pass” the international long-distance interconnection system. This practice is illegal under applicable law. Maxcom cannot confirm whether any of its high-volume customers are engaging in “by-pass” activities because it is not required to make such a determination under Mexican regulations and therefore has not implemented a system to detect such activity. Maxcom is required, however, to comply with any Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission order to disconnect a customer deemed to be engaged in “by-pass” activities by the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission. In 2000, Mexican regulatory authorities announced their intention to conduct more rigorous audits of persons or companies believed to be engaged in “by-pass” activities. In December 2000, some of the major Mexican long-distance carriers, including Maxcom, signed a cooperation agreement to combat “by-pass” activities. If, as a consequence of such actions, the regulatory authorities determine that any of our high-volume customers are engaged in “by-pass” activity, Maxcom would be required to disconnect their service and our revenues could be negatively affected. Our telecommunications network infrastructure has several vulnerabilities and limitations. Our telecommunications network is the source of all our revenues. Any problem with or limitation of our network may result in a reduction in the number of our customers or usage level by our customers, our inability to attract new customers or increased maintenance costs, all of which would have a negative impact on our revenues and net income. The development and operation of our network is subject to problems and technological risks, including: • physical damage; • power loss; • capacity limitations; • software defects as well as hardware and software obsolescence; 7 • breaches of security, whether by computer virus, break-in or otherwise; • failure to interconnect with carriers linking us with our customers; • denial of access to our sites for failure to obtain required municipal or other regulatory approvals; and • other factors which may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for our customers. Our results may be negatively impacted by high levels of churn. We historically have experienced customer attrition, which we refer to as churn. Churn results in the loss of future revenue from lost customers as well as the inability to recover the costs incurred to acquire those customers, such as installation costs and commissions. Churn occurs for several reasons which include disconnection of a customer for non-payment, disconnection of a customer who switches to a competing company and disconnection of a customer who requests termination of service. Our average monthly churn rate for the last three years has been 1.7%. Also, a decline in the national or international economic conditions could have a negative impact in our churn rate, in particular with our residential customers. An increase in customer churn could have a material negative impact on our revenue growth and in our operating income, even if we could replace the customer deactivated with a new customer. Churn may be impacted by: • customer delinquency; • our limited coverage area that restricts our ability to continue providing service when a customer moves; • our failure to meet service levels required by our customers; • our failure to provide, efficiently or on competitive terms, other services demanded by our customers; and • promotional and pricing strategies of our competitors; Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our ability to fulfill our obligations under our senior notes due 2014 and our ability to operate our business and implement our business plan. We are highly leveraged. As of March 31, 2008 and as of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness in the amount of Ps.2,233.1 million (U.S.$204.5 million) and Ps.2,197.2 (U.S.$201.2 million), respectively, which consists primarily of U.S.$200 million aggregate principal of senior notes due 2014. We will use approximately U.S.$23.1 million annually from our cash flows to service our senior notes due 2014. Our ratio of earnings to fixed charges under Mexican GAAP was 1.5 for the year ended December 31, 2007. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. Although the terms of the indenture governing the senior notes due 2014 restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications including with respect to our ability to incur additional senior indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or for other purposes, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of indebtedness could be intensified. Specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including consequences that could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the telecommunications industry; 8 • limit our ability to take advantage of opportunities for acquisitions and other business combinations; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing or obtain it on commercially reasonable terms, to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. If we and our subsidiaries incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, the leverage-related risks that we now face could intensify and have a material adverse effect on business, results of operation and financial condition. The indenture governing our senior notes due 2014 contains restrictions on our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. The indenture governing our senior notes due 2014 contains covenants that may restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to engage in certain transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy, necessary to remain competitive or otherwise important to us. The indenture restricts, among others, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make investments or other specified restricted payments; • create liens; • enter into mergers, consolidations, sales of substantially all of our assets and other forms of business combinations; • enter into change of control transactions; • sell assets and subsidiary stock; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we could be in default despite our ability to service our indebtedness. If there were an event of default under the indenture governing our senior notes due 2014, holders of such senior notes could demand immediate payment of the aggregate principal amount and accrued interest on such senior notes outstanding which, as of March 31, 2008, was an amount equal to U.S.$ 207.8 million. This could lead to our inability to pay our obligations or to our bankruptcy or reorganization for the benefit of our creditors. Any additional financings we obtain in the future would most likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. The terms of the indenture governing our senior notes due 2014 restricting us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness are subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, including exceptions allowing us to incur capital lease, financing and purchase money obligations not exceeding U.S.$10 million and additional indebtedness not exceeding U.S.$10 million. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or for other purposes, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of indebtedness could be intensified. Risks Relating to the Mexican Telecommunications Industry 9 The telecommunications industry in Mexico is increasingly competitive, which may result in lower prices for telecommunications services, lower margins and/or a loss of market share. The Mexican telecommunications industry is increasingly competitive and rapidly changing. We face significant competition from Telmex (the incumbent wireline telecommunications provider in Mexico) as well as other telecommunications providers and new market entrants such as cable operators. The Mexican government has been taking action to increase competition by, among other things, enacting regulations allowing certain concessionaries of media (including cable operators) and telecommunication services to provide services not included in their original concessions. In particular, cable operators who have substantial coverage of cities we currently serve may offer the same voice and data services we provide at lower prices since telephony income represents incremental revenue to cable operators. See “Item 4. Information on the Company – Industry Overview.” Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Increased competition could result in fewer customers, reduced pricing, reduced gross and operating margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. Rate pressure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and our financial condition. We expect the Mexican telecommunications market to continue to experience rate pressure, primarily as a result of: • increased competition and focus by our competitors on increasing market share; • recent technological advances that permit substantial increases in the transmission capacity of both new and existing fiber-optic networks, resulting in long-distance overcapacity; • increased participation of traditional fixed-line competitors; • the entrance of cable television operators into certain markets where we currently offer service; and • the entrance of new competitors, such as broadcasting companies or the Comisión Federal de Electricidad. Continued rate pressure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results if we are unable to generate sufficient traffic and increased revenues to offset the impact of the decreased rates on our operating margin. If the Mexican government grants more concessions, the value of our concessions could be severely impaired. The telecommunications industry is regulated by the Mexican government. Our concessions are not exclusive and the Mexican government is granting concessions covering the same geographic regions and frequency bands to other entrants. We cannot assure you that additional concessions to provide similar services to those we provide or plan to provide will not be granted to other competitors and that the value of our concessions will not be adversely affected. We could lose our concessions if we do not fully comply with their terms or if we are not able to renew our existing concessions. We hold concessions that enable us to provide telecommunications services. Under the terms of our concessions, we are required to meet a number of technical, buildout and financial conditions and in the past, we have failed to meet some of these conditions. We subsequently obtained a modification from the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission to the concessions and are now in compliance with all material aspects. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be fined for our past failure to comply with the terms of our concessions. In addition, any failure to comply with any of the terms of our concessions or to obtain a waiver or modification could result in the termination of those concessions, the imposition of fines or the loss of performance bonds that we have issued to the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation. The Mexican government is not required to compensate us in the event of such termination. See “Regulation – Concessions and Permits – Termination.” 10 Furthermore, all of our concessions have a specified duration and are scheduled to expire between 2016 and 2028. Mexican law provides that concessions, except for the microwave transmission concessions which will be reauctioned, may be renewed for a period equal to the duration of the original concession if certain requirements are met and at the discretion of the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation. There can be no assurances that any of our concessions will be renewed or under what terms they would be renewed or that we will successfully bid for and retain the microwave transmission concessions. If any of our key concessions, including our local and long distance telephony concession, were terminated or not renewed, we would be unable to engage in our business. Fraudulent use of telecommunications networks increases our expenses. The fraudulent use of telecommunications networks imposes a significant cost upon service providers, who must bear the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. We suffer a loss of revenue as a result of fraudulent use and a cash cost due to our obligation to reimburse carriers for the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. Although we have installed technology to combat fraudulent use and will continue to evaluate and select amongst new fraud detection technologies as they become available, technology does not eliminate fraud entirely. In addition, since we rely on other long-distance carriers for interconnection, some of which do not have anti-fraud technology in their networks, we are particularly exposed to this risk in our long-distance service and in traffic originating in our network to mobile users under the mode of “calling party pays.” In 2007, our expenses for the prevention and detection of fraud were not significant. Due to cost reduction measures, we may elect not to upgrade our licenses relating to anti-fraud software or to cover certain maintenance fees. Rapid technological advances may require us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the competitiveness of our service offerings. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and requires the introduction of new products and services. Like other operators, we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. New services and technological advances may offer additional opportunities for competitors to compete against us on the basis of cost, quality or functionality. While we have been installing what we believe to be a technologically advanced fiber optic network with a microwave overlay, we cannot assure you that this technology will not be challenged by competition from new or improved digital or other technologies in the near future. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to technological changes. This may require us to devote significant capital to the development, procurement or implementation of new technologies. Additionally, our adoption of new imported technology may be dependent upon the final cost and our ability to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the nature and extent of the impact of technological change on our viability or competitiveness. If any future technological change places at risk our viability or competitiveness, the cost of upgrading our products and technology to remain competitive could be significant and our ability to fund this upgrading may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us. Under Mexican law, our concessions could be expropriated or temporarily seized. Pursuant to Mexican law, the public telecommunications networks are considered public domain. Holders of concessions to install, operate and develop public telecommunications networks are subject to the provisions of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law (Ley Federal de Telecomunicaciones) and any other provision contained in the concession title. The Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law and other applicable laws provide, among other things, the following: • rights and obligations granted under the concessions to install, operate and develop public telecommunications networks may only be assigned with the prior authorization of the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation; • neither the concession nor the rights thereunder or the related assets may be assigned, pledged, mortgaged or sold to any government or country; and 11 • the Mexican government (through the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation) may permanently expropriate any telecommunications concession and claim any related asset for reason of public interest or may temporarily seize the assets related to the concessions in the event of natural disasters, war, significant public disturbance or threats to internal peace or for other reasons relating to economic or public order. Mexican law sets forth the process for indemnification for direct damages arising out of the expropriation or temporary seizure of the assets related to the concessions, except in the event of war. However, in the event of expropriation, we cannot assure you that the indemnification will equal the market value of the concessions and related assets or that we will receive such indemnification in a timely manner. Mexican law does not prohibit a grant of a security interest in the concessions and the assets by the concessionaire to its creditors (except for security granted to a foreign government or country), provided, however, that all applicable procedural laws are followed. In the event such security interest is enforced, the assignee must comply with the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law’s provisions related to concessionaires, including, among others, the requirement to receive the authorization of the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation to be a holder of the concession. “Long-distance Calling Party Pays” system could result in a loss of customer traffic and revenue. On December 18, 2006, the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission implemented the “Long distance Calling Party Pays” system, whereby the customer originating the domestic or international call, from either a fixed line or mobile phone to a mobile phone, pays the entire fee for placing the call rather than the mobile telephone subscriber who receives such call. Even though the mobile telephone subscriber receiving the call does not pay to receive the call, the network from which the call originates must still compensate the terminating mobile network. Maxcom has negotiated with mobile carriers the “Long-distance Calling Party Pays” interconnection tariff for local and long-distance calls to be terminated in such mobile operators’ network, achieving a significant reduction of the original tariff contemplated by the agreements implementing this system issued by the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission. The per minute tariffs will be Ps.1.34 in 2007, Ps.1.21 in 2008, Ps.1.09 in 2009 and Ps.1.00 in 2010. Even though we have negotiated better interconnection tariffs than those proposed by the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission, we believe that the expense associated with the interconnection tariff could result in loss of customer traffic and revenue. Foreign ownership restrictions may limit our ability to raise equity capital. Mexican law currently provides that no more than 49% of the full voting stock of a Mexican corporation holding a concession to provide telecommunications services, other than mobile services, may be held by non- Mexicans. In addition, Mexican authorities have mandated that our shares held by the CPO trustee, which are also referred to as neutral investment shares, may not represent more than 95% of our total capital stock. Because of such restrictions, we have limited flexibility to raise equity capital from non-Mexican investors. As a result, any future sales of equity securities may require substantial participation by Mexicans, the issuance of non-voting securities to foreign investors or a modification of Mexican foreign investment laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that such a modification would be passed. We operate in a highly regulated industry which is currently experiencing broad-based regulatory changes. During 2007 COFETEL issued the rules for the implementation of number portability in 2008. We cannot predict the effects of the new regulation on our networks. This uncertainty on the application of the federal telecommunications law, the convergence resolution and the number portability rules could adversely affect our business and subject us to additional legal liability or obligations. In addition, under the new federal telecommunications law, COFETEL must amend its operating rules. The amendment reorganizes and redistributes resources in COFETEL which could affect concession title granting, spectrum policy, broadcasting regulation and international matters, among other issues. We cannot predict how these new rules could affect our business. 12 The SCT is also considering the auctioning of the 1850-1910/1930-1990 MHz, 3400-3700 MHz, and 1710-1770/2110-2170 MHz spectrum segments, which could open the market to new concessionaires and technologies, such as WiMax, that could also compete with the services we provide. We cannot predict the outcome of any such auction. In addition to the foregoing, several key provisions of the Mexican Antitrust Law (Ley Federal de Competencia Económica) have also been recently revised and declared unconstitutional by our Supreme Court of Justice, thereby limiting the ability of the Mexican Antitrust Commission’s ability to obtain information for the analysis of dominant carrier status and antitrust practices. Risks Relating to Mexico Political conditions in Mexico may significantly affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are incorporated in Mexico and substantially all of our assets and operations are located in Mexico. As a result, we are subject to political, legal and regulatory risks specific to Mexico which can have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political situation The Mexican federal elections were held on July 2, 2006. The Federal Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Power (Tribunal Federal Electoral del Poder Judicial de la Federación) determined on September 5, 2006 that Felipe de Jesús Calderón Hinojosa of the Partido Acción Nacional won the presidential elections and formally declared him to be president elect, with a very narrow margin over Andrés Manuel López Obrador of the Partido de la Revolución Democrática. Citing electoral fraud, Mr. López Obrador refused to concede the election. On December 1, 2006, Felipe Calderón officially became President of Mexico. Although the Partido Acción Nacional won a plurality of the seats in the Mexican Congress after the election, no party succeeded in securing a majority in either chamber of the Mexican Congress. We believe that the absence of a clear majority by a single party and the lack of alignment between the president and the legislature is likely to continue. This situation may result in government gridlock and political uncertainty, which could result in changes to existing laws and regulations relating to, among other areas, taxation, labor and the telecommunications industry. Any of these changes could have a significant impact on the telecommunications industry and harm our business. Legal and regulatory situation Effective April 11, 2006, the Mexican Congress enacted amendments to the Federal Law on Radio and Television (Ley Federal de Radio y Televisión) and to the Federal Telecommunications Law. Pursuant to these amendments, which were highly controversial, the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission now also has the ability to regulate broadcasting (radio and television). We cannot predict how the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes) or the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission will interpret and implement the amendments to the Federal Law on Radio and Television and the Federal Telecommunications Law and thus how these new rules could affect our business. This uncertainty could adversely affect our business and subject us to additional legal liabilities or obligations. Furthermore, the Mexican Supreme Court on August 2007 resolved that several articles of the Federal Law on Radio and Television and to the Federal Telecommunications Law are unconstitutional. Although we believe that this Supreme Court ruling does not directly affect us, we cannot predict the impact that the future interpretation and implementation by the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation or the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission of this ruling, or the amendment by the Mexican Congress of these laws as a result of the Mexican Supreme Court ruling could have on the regulation of the telecommunications industry and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Mexico experiences future economic crises, our business could be affected negatively. We are a Mexican company with all of our operations in Mexico. Accordingly, the economic environment within Mexico can have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican 13 economy. Accordingly, Mexican federal governmental actions and policies concerning the economy could have a significant impact on private sector entities in general and on us in particular and on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including our securities. In the past, Mexico has experienced economic crises caused by internal and external factors, characterized by exchange rate instability, high inflation, high domestic interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction of international capital flows, a reduction of liquidity in the banking sector and high unemployment. These economic conditions could substantially reduce the purchasing power of the Mexican population and, as a result, the demand for telecommunications services that we offer. Changes to Mexican laws, regulations and decrees applicable to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The telecommunications sector in Mexico is subject to numerous laws and extensive regulations by a number of governmental authorities, including the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation and the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Commission, which are responsible for, among others, formulating policy, granting licenses, setting tariff schemes, regulating interconnection among providers, levying taxes on services and supervising the provision of services. Laws applicable to our business may be enacted, amended or repealed and governmental agencies may make regulatory interpretations or take regulatory actions that could damage our business, increase competition, increase our costs of operation, decrease our revenues, limit our ability to grow our operations, or otherwise adversely impact our business. Peso devaluation relative to the U.S. dollar could make it more difficult for us to service our indebtedness and could decrease the value of our securities. While our revenues are almost entirely denominated in pesos, the majority of our obligations and all of our long-term indebtedness are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, substantially all of our capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars. We are, and will continue to be, exposed to peso devaluation risk. The peso has devalued substantially against the U.S. dollar in the past and may devalue significantly in the future. For example, the noon buying rate rose from Ps.3.45 per U.S.$1.00 on December 19, 1994 to Ps.5.00 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 1994 and Ps.7.74 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 1995, representing a 124.6% devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar from December 19, 1994 to December 31, 1995. In 2003, the peso depreciated 9.0% relative to the U.S. dollar. The peso depreciated relative to the U.S. dollar 0.3% in 2004, appreciated 4.9% in 2005, depreciated 1.5% in 2006, and appreciated 0.1% in 2007. The peso-to-dollar exchange rate may experience significant devaluations in the future. Further declines in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations, including our senior notes due 2014. In addition, any further decrease in the value of the peso may negatively affect the value of Mexican securities such as ours. Exchange rate control rules enacted in the future could make it more difficult for us to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt, raise capital outside of Mexico and make capital expenditures. In the past, the Mexican government has issued exchange control rules that, although not in effect today, may be enacted in the future. If so enacted, exchange control rules could make it more difficult to service our U.S. dollar denominated debt, raise capital outside of Mexico and make capital expenditures. The price of our securities could decrease due to events in other countries, especially the United States and emerging market countries. We cannot assure you that the price of our securities will not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in the United States and in emerging market countries. Mexican financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country has had and can have significant effects on the prices of securities of issuers in other countries, including Mexico. For example, each of the 1997 Asian economic crisis, the 1998 Russian debt moratorium and currency devaluation, the 1999 Brazilian currency 14 devaluation and the 2001 Argentine debt default and currency devaluation triggered market volatility in Latin America. The economic slowdown in the United States, the military conflict in Iraq, the threat of terrorism and political and financial crises in certain emerging markets have had a significant negative impact on the financial and securities markets in many emerging market countries, including Mexico. Less information about our Company may be publicly available because we are subject to different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than U.S. companies. A principal objective of the securities laws of the United States and Mexico is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information. However, there may be less publicly available information about foreign issuers of securities listed in the United States and of Mexican issuers in Mexico than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers of listed securities. In addition, we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with Mexican GAAP. Mexican GAAP differs in significant respects from U.S. GAAP. In particular, all Mexican companies must incorporate the effects of inflation directly in their accounting records and in published financial statements. We cannot assure you that these will be the only differences in the future. See note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the principal differences between Mexican GAAP and U.S. GAAP applicable to us. You may suffer a U.S. dollar shortfall if you obtain a judgment against us. In the event you are awarded a judgment from a Mexican court enforcing our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations under our senior notes due 2014, we will have the right to discharge our obligations by paying you in pesos at the exchange rate in effect on the date of payment of such judgment. The exchange rate is currently determined by the Central Bank of Mexico (Banco de México) every banking day in Mexico and published the following banking day in the Official Gazette of the Federation (Diario Oficial de la Federación). As a result of such currency conversion, you could face a shortfall in U.S. dollars. No separate actions exist or are enforceable in Mexico for compensation for any such shortfall. If we were to be declared bankrupt, holders of our senior notes due 2014 may find it difficult to collect payment on the notes. Under the Mexican Bankruptcy Law (Ley de Concursos Mercantiles), if we or any of the guarantors of our senior notes due 2014 were declared bankrupt (en quiebra) by a Mexican Court, or were to become subject to reorganization proceeding (concurso mercantil), our obligations under the notes and the applicable guarantor’s obligations under the guarantee of the senior notes due 2014: (i) would be converted into pesos at the exchange rate published by the Central Bank of Mexico prevailing at the time of the declaration of reorganization proceeding and then from pesos into Unidades de Inversión, or UDIs, inflation indexed units and would not be adjusted to take into account any devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar occurring after such conversion, (ii) would be subject to the outcome of, and priorities recognized in, the relevant proceedings, (iii) would be satisfied at the time claims of all of our creditors are satisfied after the relevant proceedings have been substantially advanced, (iv) would cease to accrue interest from the date a reorganization proceeding or bankruptcy is declared and, (v) would be subject to certain statutory preferences including tax, social security and labor claims and claims of secured creditors. High inflation rates in Mexico may decrease demand for our services while increasing our costs. In recent years, Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation relative to the United States, its main commercial partner. Mexico’s annual rate of inflation was 5.7% in 2002, 4.0% in 2003, 5.2% in 2004, 3.3% in 2005, 4.1% in 2006 and 3.8% for 2007. High inflation rates can adversely affect us as follows: • inflation can adversely affect consumer purchasing power, thereby adversely affecting consumer demand for our services and products; and • to the extent inflation exceeds our price increases, our prices and revenues will be adversely affected in real terms. High interest rates in Mexico could increase our financing costs. 15 Mexico has, and is expected to continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates, relative to the United States, its main commercial partner. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities averaged, 7.1% in 2002, 6.2% in 2003, 6.8%in 2004, 9.2% in 2005, 7.2% in 2006 and 7.2% in 2007. Although we do not currently have any peso-denominated indebtedness, if we need to incur such indebtedness in the future, it will likely be at high interest rates. Minority shareholders may be less able to enforce their rights against us, our directors, or our controlling shareholders in Mexico. Under Mexican law and our bylaws which are governed by Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. For example, because provisions concerning fiduciary duties of directors have only recently been incorporated into the Mexican Securities Market Law (Ley del Mercado de Valores) and are not as developed as in the United States, it may be difficult for CPO holders to bring an action against directors for breach of this duty and achieve the same results as in most jurisdictions in the United States. Procedures for class action lawsuits do not exist under applicable Mexican law. Furthermore, if investors hold our securities through the CPO trustee, their minority rights may only be exercised through instructions of the CPO trustee. Such indirect ownership arrangement may further limit such investor’s rights. Therefore, it may be more difficult for CPO holders to enforce their rights against us, our directors, or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a U.S. company. Investors may experience difficulties in enforcing civil liabilities against us or our directors, officers and controlling persons. We are organized under the laws of Mexico, and most of our directors, officers and controlling persons reside outside the United States. In addition, all or a substantial portion of our assets and our directors and officers’ assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on such persons or to enforce judgments against them, including any action based on civil liabilities under the U.S. federal securities laws. There is doubt as to the enforceability against such persons in Mexico, whether in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, of liabilities based solely on the U.S. federal securities laws because Mexican courts may determine that the obligation for which enforcement is sought contravenes or goes beyond Mexican law (and public policy (órden público) thereunder). ITEM 