Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K and certain other communications made by us contain forward-looking statements, including statements about our growth and future operating results, discovery and development of products, strategic alliances and intellectual property. For this purpose, any statement that is not a statement of historical fact should be considered a forward-looking statement. We often use the words “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will” and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that our assumptions and expectations will prove to have been correct. Important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated or implied by forward-looking statements. Such factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those factors discussed below. We undertake no intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In September 2006, we completed our merger with Old Infinity. Upon completion of the merger, the business of the combined company became the one operated by Old Infinity prior to the merger. As a result, the 20 Table of Contents risk factors set forth below discuss the business of the combined company after the merger, which includes a discussion of the business of Old Infinity prior to the merger. For a further discussion of the merger, see “Business—Corporate Information” above. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Stage of Development as a Company Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and assess our future viability effectively. Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing the company, developing, and securing our technology and undertaking preclinical studies and initial clinical trials of our drug candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, or to formulate and manufacture at commercial-scale, any of our drug candidates, nor do we have the sales and marketing infrastructure necessary to successfully commercialize any products that may ultimately be approved for sale, if any. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history. We have a history of net losses and may never become profitable. We have incurred significant losses since inception. At December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $155.3 million. Our net losses for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $28.4 million, $36.4 million and $34.1 million, respectively. We have not generated any revenues from the sale of drugs to date and we do not expect to generate revenues from the sale of drugs, or achieve profitability, for several years, if ever. We expect that our annual operating losses will increase substantially over the next several years as we seek to: • complete Phase I clinical trials for IPI-504 and, if supported by the Phase I clinical trial results, initiate larger scale Phase II clinical trials, as well as additional clinical trials, for IPI-504; • perform preclinical work on, and commence clinical development of, an oral formulation of IPI-504; • advance our Hedgehog pathway inhibitor program into preclinical development and clinical trials, if supported by positive data; • discover and develop additional drug candidates, including Bcl-2 inhibitor compounds; • obtain regulatory approval for any drug candidates we successfully develop; • commercialize any drug candidates for which the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained; • prosecute and maintain our intellectual property rights relating to our drug candidates and future products, if any; • hire additional clinical, scientific and management personnel and upgrade our operational, financial and management information systems and facilities; and • identify and acquire rights from third parties to additional compounds, drug candidates or drugs. To become profitable, we must successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates and effectively manufacture, market and sell those drug candidates. Consequently, we may never generate significant revenues and, even if we do, we may never achieve profitability. We will need substantial additional capital to fund our operations, and our business may be threatened if that capital is not available on acceptable terms. We anticipate that our current cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities will be sufficient to support our current operating plan through at least December 31, 2009. Our currently-planned operating and capital requirements primarily include the need for working capital to, among other things: • continue clinical development of an intravenous formulation of IPI-504; 21 Table of Contents • perform preclinical work on, and commence clinical development of, an oral formulation of IPI-504; • perform preclinical work on, and commence clinical development of, compounds from our Hedgehog pathway inhibitor program; and • advance our additional discovery programs. Our future operating plan may change, however, as a result of many factors, including: • the progress and results of clinical trials of IPI-504 and preclinical studies of an oral formulation of IPI-504; • the results of discovery-stage research and preclinical studies of potential Hedgehog pathway inhibitors, the results of discovery-stage research for Bcl-2 inhibitor compounds and other programs, and our decision to initiate clinical trials if supported by preclinical results; • our ability to maintain our strategic alliances with MedImmune and Novartis; • our ability to meet our compound delivery obligations to Novartis International; • the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals for our drug candidates; • the cost of acquiring raw materials for, and of manufacturing, our drug candidates; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patents, and other patent-related costs, including litigation costs; • the costs of increasing our clinical research, medical and regulatory affairs and drug safety functions; • the costs of establishing sales and marketing functions and of establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements if any of our drug candidates are approved; • our needs for office and laboratory facilities and our ability to continue subleasing excess space; • the costs required to satisfy our obligations under our alliance with MedImmune; • the timing and receipt of milestone payments under our collaboration agreements; and • the timing, receipt and amount of sales, profits or royalties on future products, if any. We will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses that we expect to incur in the long term in connection with planned preclinical and clinical testing, regulatory review, manufacturing and sales and marketing efforts. We may seek additional capital through a combination of private and public equity offerings, debt financings and strategic alliance and licensing arrangements. Such additional financing may not be available when we need it or may not be available on terms that are favorable to us. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders’ ownership interests will be diluted, and the terms may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect their rights as stockholders. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we raise additional funds through strategic alliances and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we could be required to: • curtail significant discovery-stage drug discovery programs that are designed to identify new drug candidates; and/or • relinquish rights to drug candidates or development programs that we may otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves or jointly with our collaborative partners. 22 Table of Contents Our alliances with MedImmune and Novartis are important to our business. If these alliances are unsuccessful or if conflicts result with our alliance partners, our research and development efforts could be delayed, curtailed or terminated, our revenues could significantly decrease, and our operations may be adversely affected. We have entered into an alliance with MedImmune to jointly develop and commercialize novel drugs targeting Hsp90 and the Hedgehog pathway. We have also entered into an alliance with Novartis for the development and commercialization of Bcl protein family members in the field of cancer. In these alliances, our collaborators have committed to provide substantial funding, as well as significant capabilities in clinical development, regulatory affairs, marketing and sales. If MedImmune or Novartis does not devote sufficient time and resources to the applicable alliance arrangement, we may not realize the potential commercial benefits of the arrangement, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, if MedImmune or Novartis were to breach or terminate its arrangement with us, the development and commercialization of the affected drug candidate could be delayed, curtailed or terminated because we may not have sufficient financial resources or capabilities to continue development and commercialization of the drug candidate on our own. Under our agreement with MedImmune, MedImmune may opt out of a project by giving us six months’ prior written notice, and has the right to terminate the agreement under other circumstances, including if it believes there are safety concerns with respect to a drug being developed under the collaboration. Under our alliance agreement with Novartis, Novartis may terminate the alliance at any time upon 60 days’ notice to us. If either MedImmune or Novartis were to exercise its right to opt out of a program or to terminate the applicable alliance, the development and commercialization of products from our Hsp90, Hedgehog pathway inhibitor or Bcl-2 programs could be adversely affected, our potential for generating revenue from these programs may be adversely affected and attracting new alliance partners would be made more difficult. Much of the potential revenue from our existing and future alliances will consist of contingent payments, such as payments for achieving development and commercialization milestones, royalties payable on sales of any successfully developed drugs, and profit-sharing arrangements. The milestone, royalty and other revenue that we may receive under these alliances will depend upon our, and our alliance partners’, ability to successfully develop, introduce, market and sell new products. In some cases, we will not be involved in these processes and, accordingly, will depend entirely on our alliance partners. Our alliance partners may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products using our products or technologies because they: • decide not to devote the necessary resources because of internal constraints, such as limited personnel with the requisite scientific expertise, limited cash resources or specialized equipment limitations, or the belief that other drug development programs may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment; • do not have sufficient resources necessary to carry the drug candidate through clinical development, regulatory approval and commercialization; or • cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. In addition, an alliance partner may decide to pursue a competitive drug candidate developed outside of the alliance. If our alliance partners fail to develop or effectively commercialize our drug candidates or for any of the other reasons described above, we may not be able to develop and commercialize that drug independently, or replace the alliance partner with another suitable partner in a reasonable period of time and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 23 Table of Contents If we are not able to attract and retain key personnel and advisors, we may not be able to operate our business successfully. We are highly dependent on our management team, particularly Steven Holtzman, Julian Adams, Adelene Perkins and the other members of our executive leadership team. All of these individuals are employees-at-will, which means that neither Infinity nor such employee is obligated to a fixed term of service and that the employment relationship may be terminated by either Infinity or the employee at any time, without notice, and whether or not cause or good reason exists for such termination. Although we do not have any reason to believe that we may lose the services of any of these persons in the foreseeable future, the loss of the services of any of these persons might impede the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our employees. Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and business personnel will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by other entities, have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with third parties that limit their availability to us, or both. Risks Related to the Development and Planned Commercialization of Our Drug Candidates All of our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development and remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. This process is highly uncertain and we may never be able to obtain marketing approval for any of our drug candidates. To date, we have not obtained approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or any foreign regulatory authority to market or sell any of our drug candidates. Our success depends primarily upon our, and our strategic alliance partners’, ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. Our most advanced drug candidate is IPI-504, which is currently in Phase I clinical trials and is the subject of a broad product development and commercialization agreement with MedImmune. Our other drug candidates are in various stages of preclinical development and discovery research. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions prior to the commercial sale of medicinal products like our drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing, or may in the future develop, either alone or in collaboration with our strategic alliance partners, will obtain marketing approval. In connection with the clinical trials of IPI-504 and any other drug candidate we may seek to develop in the future, we face risks that: • the drug candidate may not prove to be safe and/or effective; • the results of later trials may not confirm the positive results from earlier preclinical studies or clinical trials; and • the results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA and/or comparable foreign regulatory agencies. The time required to complete clinical trials and for regulatory review by the FDA and other countries’ regulatory agencies is uncertain and typically takes many years. Some of our drug candidates may be eligible for the FDA’s programs 24 Table of Contents that are designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of certain drugs, but we cannot provide any assurance that any of our drug candidates will qualify for one or more of these programs. Even if a drug candidate qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the drug no longer meets the conditions for qualification. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. Any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the particular drug candidate. Furthermore, the uses for which any regulatory authority may grant approval to market a product may be limited, thus placing limitations on the manner in which we may market the product and limiting its market potential. We are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third party reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign regulations. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States, and vice versa. Foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. If clinical trials of our drug candidates are prolonged, delayed or suspended, it may take significantly longer and cost substantially more to obtain marketing approval for our drug candidates and achieve profitability, if at all. We cannot predict whether we will encounter problems with any of our ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us, our strategic alliance partners, or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: • ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; • delays in receiving, or the inability to obtain, required approvals from institutional review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; • delays in enrolling patients into clinical trials; • a lower than anticipated retention rate of patients in clinical trials; • the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive or negative results or unforeseen complications in testing; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug product or other materials necessary to conduct our clinical trials; • unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; • serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; • a finding that the trial participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; • the placement by the FDA of a clinical hold on a trial; or • any restrictions on or post-approval commitments with regard to any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain that render the drug candidate not commercially viable. 25 Table of Contents Clinical trials require sufficient patient enrollment, which is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the eligibility criteria for our clinical trials and competing studies or trials. Delays in patient enrollment can result in increased costs and longer development times. Our failure to enroll patients in our clinical trials could delay the completion of the clinical trial beyond current expectations. In addition, the FDA could require us to conduct clinical trials with a larger number of subjects than has been projected for any of our drug candidates. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients in a timely or cost-effective manner. Furthermore, enrolled patients may drop out of clinical trials, which could impair the validity or statistical significance of the clinical trials. A number of factors can influence the patient discontinuation rate, including, but not limited to: the inclusion of a placebo arm in a trial; possible inactivity or low activity of the drug candidate being tested at one or more of the dose levels being tested; adverse side effects experienced, whether or not related to the drug candidate; and the availability of numerous alternative treatment options that may induce patients to discontinue their participation in the trial. We may suspend, or the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may require us to suspend, clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the patients participating in such clinical trials, or in independent third party clinical trials for drugs based on similar technologies, are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. We cannot predict whether any of our drug candidates will encounter problems during clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend these trials or delay the analysis of data from these trials. In addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We rely on third parties such as medical institutions and external investigators to enroll qualified patients, conduct our clinical trials and provide services in connection with such clinical trials. We intend to rely on these institutions and investigators, as well as contract research organizations and other similar entities, in the future. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or the trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe there are a number of third party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, replacing a third party contractor may result in a delay of the affected trial. If this were to occur, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates may be delayed. In addition, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. The FDA requires us to comply with certain standards, referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If any of our trial investigators or third party contractors does not comply with good clinical practices, we may not be able to use the data and reported results from the trial. If this were to occur, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates may be delayed. 26 Table of Contents Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, we may still face significant development and regulatory difficulties. Even if we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates we are developing or may develop, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review. We may be required, or we may elect, to conduct additional clinical trials of our drug candidates after they have become commercially available approved drugs. As greater numbers of patients use a drug following its approval, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. Supplemental trials could also produce findings that are inconsistent with the trial results we previously submitted to the FDA, which could result in marketing restrictions or force us to stop marketing previously approved drugs. In addition, the manufacturer and the manufacturing facilities we use to make any approved drugs will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturer or facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. Manufacturing difficulties could delay or preclude commercialization of our drug candidates and substantially increase our expenses. Our drug candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing. The third party manufacturers on which we rely may not be able to comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs, and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. These regulations govern manufacturing processes and procedures and the implementation and operation of systems to control and assure the quality of products. The FDA may, at any time, audit or inspect a manufacturing facility to ensure compliance with cGMPs. Any failure by our contract manufacturers to achieve and maintain high manufacturing and quality control standards could result in patient injury or death; product liability claims; penalties or other monetary sanctions; the failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our drug candidates; delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals; license revocation; seizures or recalls of drug candidates or products; operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supply of our drug candidates and seriously hurt our business. Contract manufacturers may also encounter difficulties involving production yields or delays in performing their services. We do not have control over third party manufacturers’ performance and compliance with these applicable regulations and standards. If, for some reason, our manufacturers cannot perform as agreed, we may be unable to replace such third party manufacturers in a timely manner and the production of our drug candidates would be interrupted, resulting in delays in clinical trials and additional costs. Switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and, depending on the type of material manufactured at the contract facility, the change in contract manufacturer must be submitted to and/or approved by the FDA and comparable regulatory authorities outside of the United States. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our drug candidates after receipt of regulatory approval. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. To date, our drug candidates have been manufactured in quantities for preclinical testing and clinical trials by third party manufacturers. If the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our drug candidates for commercial sale, we expect that we would continue to rely, at least initially, on third party manufacturers to produce commercial quantities of our approved drug candidates. These manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any approved drug candidates in a timely or economical manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing might entail changes in the manufacturing process that have to be submitted to and/or approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. If contract manufacturers engaged by us are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a drug candidate, or we are unable to establish our own manufacturing capabilities, the commercial launch of any approved products may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. 27 Table of Contents If physicians and patients do not accept our future drugs, we may not be able to generate significant revenues from product sales. Even if our current drug candidates, or drug candidates we may develop or acquire in the future, obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community for a variety of reasons including: • timing of market introduction of competitive drugs; • lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; • lack of cost-effectiveness; • lack of availability of reimbursement from managed care plans and other third-party payors; • inconvenient and/or difficult administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; • safety concerns with similar drugs marketed by others; • the reluctance of the target population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies; and • ineffective sales, marketing and distribution support. If our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate significant revenue from those drugs or achieve profitability. Any drugs we successfully develop may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives that could harm our business. Our revenues and profits will depend significantly upon the availability of adequate reimbursement from governmental and other third party payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets, of any of our approved drug candidates. Reimbursement by a third party may depend upon a number of factors, including the third party payor’s determination that use of a product is: • a covered benefit under its health plan; • safe, effective and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third party and government payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of any approved drugs to each payor. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. There also exists substantial uncertainty concerning third party reimbursement for the use of any drug candidate incorporating new technology, and even if determined eligible, coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the FDA. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit or even cover our costs. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed and/or whether the drug is on a state’s Medicaid preferred drug list, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or 28 Table of Contents imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect payments for any of our approved products. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies and reimbursement values. Third party payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. As a result of actions by these third party payors, the health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and profitable reimbursement rates from government-funded and private payors for any approved products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our overall financial condition. Risks Related to Our Field The market for cancer therapeutics is intensely competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our drug candidates and any drugs that we may in the future develop may be rendered noncompetitive or obsolete. We are engaged in seeking to develop drugs in the cancer therapeutic segment of the pharmaceutical industry, which is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target various forms of cancer. We currently face, and expect to continue to face, intense and increasing competition as new products enter the market and advanced technologies become available. Moreover, there are a number of large pharmaceutical companies currently marketing and selling products to treat cancer, including Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Novartis Pharma AG and Genentech, Inc. In addition to currently approved drugs, there are a significant number of drugs that are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of various forms of cancer. We are also aware that there are a number of companies that are currently seeking to develop drug candidates directed to the same biological targets that our own drug candidates are designed to inhibit. Specifically, we believe that Kosan Biosciences, Biogen Idec Inc., Serenex, Inc., Vernalis plc (in collaboration with Novartis), Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. and Abraxis Bioscience Inc. have preclinical and clinical stage development programs seeking to develop compounds that target Heat Shock Protein 90, or Hsp90, which is the target of our lead compound IPI-504. Curis, Inc. and Genentech have an early-stage clinical development collaboration seeking to develop drugs that target the Hedgehog signaling pathway, which is also being targeted by compounds we are developing. Abbott Laboratories, Gemin-X Biosciences and Ascenta Therapeutics are believed to be in early-stage development of compounds to target the Bcl-2 family of proteins, which is the target of one of our discovery programs. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical and human resources than us, and may be better equipped to discover, develop, manufacture and commercialize drug candidates; • more extensive experience in preclinical testing and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products; • drug candidates that have been approved or are in later-stage clinical development than our own drug candidates; and/or • collaborative arrangements with leading companies and research institutions in our fields of interest. 29 Table of Contents Competitive products and/or new treatment methods for the diseases we are targeting may render our products, if any, obsolete, noncompetitive or uneconomical before we can recover the expenses of developing and commercializing them. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our drug candidates, the timing of their entry into the market in relation to competitive products in development, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. If we successfully develop drug candidates but those drug candidates do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, our business will not be successful. Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. The defense of any product liability claim brought against us will divert management time and require significant expense. We are exposed to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacture, sales and marketing of human medicinal products. Although we do not currently commercialize any products, claims could be made against us based on the use of our drug candidates in clinical trials. We currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. Our insurance may not, however, provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to redirect significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. We work with hazardous materials. Any claims relating to the improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming, costly, and affect how we conduct our business. Our activities involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials, including infectious agents, corrosive, explosive and flammable chemicals, various radioactive compounds and compounds known to cause birth defects. We are subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these laws and regulations, we cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, state or federal authorities may curtail our use of these materials, and we could be liable for any civil damages that result. These damages may exceed our financial resources and may seriously harm our business. While we believe that the amount of insurance we carry is sufficient for typical risks regarding the handling of these materials, it may not be sufficient to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events. Additionally, an accident could damage, or force us to shut down, our operations. In addition, if we were to manufacture our products or drug candidates ourselves, we may incur substantial costs to comply with environmental regulations and would be subject to the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Our inability to protect our proprietary technologies could significantly harm our business and ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully. We own or hold exclusive licenses to a number of U.S. and foreign patent applications directed to our drug candidates. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patent protection both in the United States and in other countries for our drug candidates, their methods of manufacture and their methods of use. Our ability to protect our drug candidates from unauthorized or infringing use by third parties depends in substantial part on our ability to obtain and maintain valid and enforceable patents. 30 Table of Contents Due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the claim scope of these patents, our ability to maintain, obtain and enforce patents that may issue from any pending or future patent application is uncertain and involves complex legal, scientific and factual questions. The standards which the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and are ultimately subject to change. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents. Thus, we cannot guarantee that any patents will issue from any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. Even if patents do issue, we cannot guarantee that the claims of these patents will be held valid or enforceable by a court of law or will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. Accordingly, rights under any issued patents may not provide us with sufficient protection to afford us a commercial advantage against competitive products or processes. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States. Many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. In addition, we rely on intellectual property assignment agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, scientific advisors and other collaborators to grant us ownership of new intellectual property that is developed. These agreements may not result in the effective assignment to us of that intellectual property. As a result, our ownership of key intellectual property could be compromised. Patent interference, opposition or similar proceedings relating to our intellectual property portfolio are costly, and an unfavorable outcome could prevent us from commercializing our drug candidates. Patent applications in the United States are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. In some cases, however, patent applications remain confidential in the PTO for the entire time prior to issuance as a U.S. patent. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our drug candidates or their use as anti-cancer drugs or for other indications. In the event that a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application relating to our drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the PTO or the third party to determine priority of invention in the United States. For example, we are aware of third parties who are actively researching ansamycin analogs that are similar to our lead candidate, IPI-504. These third parties have pending applications related to these analogs, but we have the first published application covering IPI-504. It is possible that an interference proceeding could be declared between our application covering IPI-504 and one or more of these third party applications. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application. In addition, the cost of interference proceedings could be substantial. Claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement would require us to spend time and money and could deprive us of valuable rights needed to develop or commercialize our drug candidates. Our commercial success will depend on whether there are third party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our potential products that may block or hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates or processes. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that may affect our business either by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or by covering similar technologies that affect the applicable market. In addition, we may undertake research and development with respect to potential products even when we are aware of third party patents that may be relevant to such potential products, on the basis that we may challenge or license such patents. Although 31 Table of Contents we are not currently aware of any litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement related to our drug candidates, the pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Other parties may obtain patents and claim that the use of our technologies infringes these patents or that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel in defending against any claims that the use of our technologies infringes upon any patents, or defending against any claim that we are employing any proprietary technology without authorization. The outcome of patent litigation is subject to uncertainties that cannot be adequately quantified in advance, including the demeanor and credibility of witnesses and the identity of the adverse party, especially in biotechnology related patent cases that may turn on the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to: • pay substantial damages; • stop developing, commercializing and selling the infringing drug candidates or approved products; • develop non-infringing products, technologies and methods; and • obtain one or more licenses from other parties, which could result in our paying substantial royalties or the granting of cross-licenses to our technologies. If this were to occur, we may be unable to commercialize the affected products, or we may elect to cease certain of our business operations, which could severely harm our business. We may undertake infringement or other legal proceedings against third parties, causing us to spend substantial resources on litigation and exposing our own intellectual property portfolio to challenge. Competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement suits, which are expensive and time-consuming. In an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that one or more of our patents is not valid. Even if the validity of our patents is upheld, a court may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that the other party’s activities are not covered by our patents. In this case, third parties may be able to use our patented technology without paying licensing fees or royalties. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, it is unclear how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them and they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. Although third parties may challenge our rights to, or the scope or validity of, our patent rights, we have not received any communications from third parties challenging our patent applications covering our drug candidates. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers, which could result in substantial costs to defend such claims and may divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. As is commonplace in our industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent unauthorized disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers 32 Table of Contents and other advisors. We require each of these individuals and entities to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of a relationship with us. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. In addition, we rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are, however, difficult to protect. Others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such case we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to seek to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights and could result in a diversion of management’s attention, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If the owners of intellectual property we have licensed do not properly maintain or enforce the licensed intellectual property, our competitive position and business prospects may be harmed. We have entered into license agreements that give us rights to third party intellectual property, and we may enter into similar agreements in the future. Our success will depend in part on the ability of any key licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for their intellectual property, in particular those patents to which we have secured exclusive rights. Our licensors may not successfully prosecute the patent applications to which we are licensed. Even if patents issue in respect of these patent applications, our licensors may fail to maintain these patents, may decide not to pursue litigation against other companies that are infringing these patents, or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than we would. Without protection for the intellectual property we license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business prospects. If we fail to obtain necessary or useful licenses to intellectual property, we could encounter substantial delays in the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates. We may decide to in-license technology that we deem necessary or useful for our business. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all. If we do not obtain necessary licenses, we could encounter substantial delays in developing and commercializing our drug candidates while we attempt to develop alternative technologies, methods and drug candidates, which we may not be able to accomplish. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with our obligations under our third party license agreements, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. Risks Associated with Our Common Stock Our stock price is likely to be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may decline in value in the future. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the results of our current and any future clinical trials of IPI-504 and our other drug candidates; • the results of preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our discovery-stage and preclinical programs; • the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key strategic alliance agreements; 33 Table of Contents • the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our drug candidates; • the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; • failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; • the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; • issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or any approved products; • the loss of key employees; • the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; • future sales of, and the trading volume in, our common stock; • changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Our management is required to devote substantial time and incur additional expense to comply with public company regulations. Our failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to public investigations, fines, enforcement actions and other sanctions by regulatory agencies and authorities and, as a result, our stock price could decline in value. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Global Market, impose various requirements on public companies, including with respect to corporate governance practices. We have incurred, and expect to continue incurring, significant legal, accounting and other expenses to comply with these requirements. In addition, our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires us to incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ Global Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. 34 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying cash dividends. Therefore, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We anticipate retaining our earnings, if any, for future growth. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, only appreciation of the price of our common stock will provide a return to stockholders. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our stockholder rights plan and in our charter and bylaws may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or current management and could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. We are a party to a stockholder rights plan, also referred to as a poison pill, which is intended to deter a hostile takeover by making any proposed acquisition of us more expensive and less desirable to the potential acquirer. The stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended, contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There were no unresolved comments from the Staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission at December 31, 2006. 