D. Risk factors Factors relating to Maxcom We anticipate that we will have negative operating cash flow until we develop a sufficiently large customer base The development of our business and the installation and expansion of our network, services and customer base require significant expenditures. These expenditures, together with operating expenses, will adversely impact our cash flow and profitability until an adequate customer base is established. We have generated negative cash flows from operating activities since our incorporation in 1996 and until 2005 and expect to generate insufficient cash flows to cover our fixed charges through 2006. This is so even though our fixed charges have decreased significantly as we restructured our financial indebtedness in April 2002 and October 2004. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish an adequate customer base to generate sufficient positive cash flows from our core operations. 4 Table of Contents If we cannot generate significant revenues, achieve and sustain profitability or generate positive cash flows from operating activities in the future, we will not be able to meet our debt service or working capital requirements, and the value of our securities, as a result, would be materially reduced. We expect to incur net losses through at least 2006 Our cash flow from operations for the year 2005 was insufficient to cover our fixed charges. We expect to continue to incur net losses through at least 2006. We may need additional financing We may require additional financing in the future to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Our budgeted capital expenditures for 2006 of U.S.$71.6 million are premised on our ability to obtain financing for the majority of such amount. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources and that, if needed, any financing will be available in the future or, if available, that will be on terms acceptable to us. In addition, our ability to incur additional indebtedness is restricted by the terms of the indenture governing the Senior Notes due 2007, which we refer to in this report as the “old notes” and the terms of the indenture governing the Step-Up Notes due 2009, which we refer to in this report as the “new notes.” We may be unable to build out our network in a timely manner or without undue cost Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend, in large part, upon the successful, timely and cost-effective buildout of our network. Factors that could affect such buildout include, among other things: • our inability to obtain permits to use public rights of way; • our inability to obtain future financing necessary for such buildout; • unforeseen delays, costs or impediments relating to the granting of state and municipal permits for our buildout; • delays or disruptions resulting from physical damage, power loss, defective equipment or the failure of third-party suppliers or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner; and • regulatory and political risks relating to Mexico, such as the temporary seizure or permanent expropriation of assets, import and export controls, political instability, changes in the regulation of telecommunications and any future restrictions on the repatriation of profits or on foreign investment. Although we believe that our cost estimates and buildout schedule are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the actual construction costs or time required to complete the buildout will not substantially exceed current estimates. Any significant cost overrun or delay could materially affect our cash flow and our ability to repay our debt. We have experienced significant turnover in our executive ranks, which has affected our ability to develop and execute our business strategies Our operations are managed by a small number of key management personnel, the loss of whom could materially affect our operations. In June and July 2000, our then chief executive, chief operations and chief marketing officers resigned. In April 2001, our then chief financial officer also resigned. We appointed new officers to all these positions during 2001, 2002 and 2003. However, between January and September 2003, our then chief executive officer, chief marketing officer, chief commercial operations officer and vice president of corporate communications and public relations and chief financial officer also resigned. We have since appointed a new chief executive officer who was our former chief 5 Table of Contents operating officer and a new chief financial officer who was our former treasurer and director of investor relations. As part of our cost-reduction efforts and more efficient operations, we have eliminated the office of vice presidency of corporate communications and public relations and consolidated the vice presidencies of operations and information systems into a single vice presidency of operations. We have also consolidated our commercial and marketing areas into a single vice presidency of marketing and sales. In February 2004 our Chief Engineering Officer resigned. We have subsequently consolidated the responsibilities of this position within the responsibilities of the Chief Operating Officer. In November 2004 our Human Resources Vicepresident resigned. Ms. Veronica Macias, then head of our recruiting area, has taken the responsibilities of the director of human resources. The significant turnover we have experienced in our management has affected our ability to develop and execute our business strategies. The success of our company depends in part upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled and qualified management personnel. The competition for highly qualified management personnel in the telecommunications industry is intense and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the management personnel necessary for our success. We may not have sufficient administrative, operational or financial resources to grow as rapidly as we would like Our expected growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources. We anticipate that continued growth will require us to recruit and hire a significant number of new managerial, finance, sales and marketing, accounting and support personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain personnel who can manage our growth effectively, our growth may be limited and the quality of our service may be impaired. This occurrence could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on Telmex for interconnection Telmex exerts significant influence on all aspects of the telecommunications market in Mexico, including interconnection agreements for local services. We use Telmex’s network to service virtually all of our customers. In November 2003, we signed an amendment to our interconnection agreement with Telmex that reduces from 70% to 30% the allowed percentage of imbalance of traffic for the “bill and keep” procedure. A new amendment was executed in August 2004 reducing furthermore the allowed percentage of imbalanced traffic for the “bill and keep” procedure to 15%. This amendment was effective through December 31, 2005. The interconnection rate is still U.S.$0.00975 per minute. We are currently negotiating with Telmex the new terms and conditions for 2006, meanwhile, current terms and conditions are still applicable due to the continuous application clause included in the agreement. We cannot assure what percentage of imbalance of traffic we will finally agree to with Telmex. There is also the possibility that the “bill and keep” procedure may be eliminated from the interconnection agreement with Telmex and substituted by a full settlement procedure. If the allowed percentage for imbalance of traffic for the “bill and keep” procedure is exceeded and/or if the “bill and keep” procedure is eliminated and we have to pay Telmex for local interconnection, we cannot assure you that we will be able to offer services at profitable and competitive rates. Our high leverage could affect our ability to service our debt We are highly leveraged. In 2005, our earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by an amount equal to Ps. 45.0 million (U.S.$4.2 million). Our ability to meet our debt service requirements will depend on our future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flows from operating activities to meet our debt service and working capital requirements. In addition, our high leverage could affect our access to credit or our ability to pursue business opportunities. The indenture governing the old notes and the new notes limits but does not prohibit our incurrence of additional indebtedness. We expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future. However, our significant level of indebtedness may impair our ability to raise additional indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms when required or with terms that will not limit our ability to develop our business. 6 Table of Contents Furthermore, our significant leverage could adversely affect: • our ability to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or operating losses or to refinance existing indebtedness; • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and market conditions; and • our ability to compete in our markets. We are and will be subject to restrictive covenants The terms of the old notes and the new notes, impose significant operating and financial restrictions. These restrictions affect, and in many respects significantly limit or prohibit, our ability to, among other things: • borrow money; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • purchase stock or repay subordinated indebtedness; • make investments; • restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends; • use assets as security in other transactions; • sell assets; and • consolidate or merge into other companies. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we could be in default even if we are able to service our debt. If there were a default, holders of the notes could demand immediate payment of the aggregate principal amount and accrued interest on the notes outstanding. This could lead to our bankruptcy or reorganization for the benefit of our creditors or to our inability to pay our obligations. We may not be able to finance an exit transaction repurchase If an exit transaction, as such term is defined in the indentures governing the old notes and the new notes, occurs (unless certain conditions set forth therein are satisfied), we will be required to offer to repurchase all of the old notes and the new notes. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the exit transaction to make the required repurchase. If we do not successfully upgrade and operate accounting, billing, customer service and management information systems, we may not be able to achieve desired operating efficiencies Sophisticated information and processing systems are vital to our operations and growth and our ability to monitor costs, render monthly invoices for services, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We intend to upgrade the accounting, information and processing systems necessary to provide services efficiently. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully upgrade or operate such systems or that they will perform as expected. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect and maintain our network infrastructure Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our network infrastructure against damage from fire, earthquakes, floods, power loss, and similar events and to construct networks that are not vulnerable to the effects of such events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our facilities or at the sites of our switches could cause interruptions in the services we provide. The failure of a switch would result in the 7 Table of Contents interruption of service to the customers served by that switch until necessary repairs are effected or replacement equipment is installed. The successful operation of our network and its components is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain the network and its components in reliable enough working order to provide sufficient quality of service to attract and maintain customers. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations or lack of adequate maintenance of our network could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be negatively affected by the “by-pass” traffic Pursuant to regulations of the Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones), which we refer to as “COFETEL,” the only legal way to transport international long distance calls in Mexico is through an authorized international gateway. However, there are alternative ways to route and terminate international long distance calls at a lower cost in countries that exchange a significant amount of traffic with Mexico. Some estimates show that, given the disparity between long distance interconnection rates and termination rates through local service routes that would be payable under an alternative arrangement, an increasing portion of the long distance market between Mexico and the United States is being served by entities that “by-pass” the international long distance interconnection system. This practice is deemed illegal by COFETEL. Maxcom cannot confirm whether any of its high-volume customers is engaging in “by-pass” activities. Under Mexican legislation, Maxcom is not required to investigate whether any such high-volume customers are engaged in “by-pass” activity. Maxcom is required, however, to obey any COFETEL formal order to disconnect a customer deemed to be engaged in “by-pass” activity by COFETEL. Mexican regulatory authorities have announced their intention to conduct more rigorous audits of persons or companies engaging in “by-pass” activity. In December 2000, some of the major Mexican long distance carriers signed a cooperation agreement to combat “by-pass” in Mexico. If, as a consequence of such actions, the regulatory authorities determine that any of our high-volume customers are engaged in “by-pass” activity, Maxcom’s revenues could be negatively affected. Our telecommunications network infrastructure has several vulnerabilities and limitations Our telecommunications network is the source of all our revenues. Any problem with or limitation of our network may result in a reduction in the number of our customers and our revenues. The development and operation of our network is subject to problems and technological risks, including: • physical damage; • power loss; • capacity limitations; • software defects as well as hardware and software obsolescence; • breaches of security, whether by computer virus, break-in or otherwise; • denial of access to our sites for failure to obtain required municipal or other regulatory approvals; and • other factors which may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for our customers. A failure to achieve current specifications for, or future upgrades of, our network may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our results are negatively impacted by high levels of churn We experience a high rate of residential and business customer lines attrition, or “churn.” Churn may be impacted by: • our customer delinquency; • our limited coverage area that restricts our ability to continue providing service when a customer moves; • our failure to meet service levels required by our customers; • promotional and pricing strategies of our competitors; and • economic conditions in Mexico. During 2005, we churned 40,716 voice lines (residential and business customer lines). This resulted in an average monthly churn rate of 1.8%. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for a fuller description of voice and wholesale lines. A high rate of churn increases our cost of operations and reduces our revenues. Factors relating to the Mexican telecommunications industry We face significant increasing competition, which may negatively affect our operating margins The telecommunications industry in Mexico is becoming highly competitive. We compete with our rivals primarily on the basis of features, pricing and customer service. We face significant competition from Telmex in all of the areas where we operate. In particular, as the former state-owned telecommunications monopoly, Telmex has significantly greater financial and other resources than those available to us. In addition Telmex has a nationwide network and concession wireless spectrum, and an established customer base. We also face significant competition from recent entrants, particularly in Mexico City, Puebla, Pue., and Queretaro, Qro. Some of these recent entrants may have significantly greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, we are facing increased competition due to the fact that the Mexican government is granting local concessions to most of the long distance carriers. Moreover, we also face competition from the new technologies that are being developed. Competition may limit our ability to grow or maintain our customer base or to implement price increases to keep pace with inflation. New competition from cable operators as well as from terrestrial microwave TV providers, who have been recently authorized by the Mexican government to provide bi – directional data and Internet broadband services and to provide the transport of voice services, including Voice over Internet Protocol “VoIP services,” acting as “carriers of carriers,” pose a high risk to us. As these cable operators and terrestrial microwave TV providers have a substantial coverage of the cities we are already servicing, and as the cable operators and terrestrial microwave TV providers’ telephony income may be seen as incremental revenue, the price reduction and the vast coverage may prevent us from continue growing. Additionally, the Mexican government has granted licenses to new companies for the provision of VoIP telephony services. It is still uncertain how these entrants will affect the local and long distance telephony services in Mexico. It is important to mention that there are also new companies that without a permit from the authorities are offering and providing VoIP services that directly compete with ours. Since such companies are not investing in infrastructure and other obligations derived from a permit or concession, their commercial offer is below the current resale costs provided by authorized carriers within Mexico. During 2006 we also expect a frequency auction process for frequency bands related to WiMax and WiFi services in the 3.4 – 3.8 GHz band. If we are not able to obtain a segment of such frequencies, we will be in disadvantage towards Telmex and Axtel, who currently own a concession in those frequencies, and also towards new winners of the auction. 9 Table of Contents If the Mexican government grants more concessions, the value of our concessions could be severely impaired The telecommunications industry is regulated by the Mexican government. Our concessions are not exclusive and the Mexican government is granting concessions which cover the same geographic regions and frequency bands to other entrants. We cannot assure you that additional concessions to provide services similar to those we plan to provide will not be granted and that the value of our concessions will not be adversely affected as a result. We could lose our concessions if we do not comply fully with their terms The terms of our concessions require us to satisfy a number of technical, buildout and financial conditions. In September 2002 and November 2003, we notified COFETEL of our failure to provide coverage in certain towns and cities by such date as required by our local and long distance concessions. In addition, we were not able to meet certain buildout obligations in certain towns and cities along the Mexico City— City of Toluca City of Queretaro – City of San Luis Potosi and City of Puebla – City of Veracruz corridors by September 2004, as required by our concessions. On December 2004, we obtained a modification to the buildout requirements of the concessions from COFETEL and we are now in compliance with our coverage and buildout obligations. However, we cannot assure that we will not be fined for our past failure to comply with our coverage obligations. A failure to comply with any of the terms of our concessions or to obtain a waiver or modification could result in the termination of any of our concessions and the loss of up to Ps.48.2 million in performance bonds that we previously issued to the Mexican Ministry of Communications and Transportation, or SCT (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes). The Mexican government would not be required to compensate us in case of such termination. If any of our concessions were to be terminated, we could be unable to engage in our core business and we would likely be unable to repay our indebtedness. We failed to provide the SCT with the performance bonds renewal for 2004, and such failure could be construed as a default on the terms of our concessions. The SCT authorized new rules that reduce significantly the amount of performance bonds that we have to issue to the SCT and we complied with such obligation for the years 2005 and 2006. The amount of new performance bonds for 2006 is Ps.1.94 million. Fraud increases our expenses The fraudulent use of telecommunications networks imposes a significant cost upon service providers, who must bear the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. We suffer loss of revenue as a result of fraudulent use, and also cash costs due to our obligation to reimburse carriers for the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. Although technology has been developed to combat this fraudulent use and we are installing it in our operations, this technology does not eliminate fraud entirely. In addition, since we rely on other long-distance carriers for interconnection, some of which do not have anti-fraud technology in their network, we are particularly exposed to this risk in our long distance service and in traffic originated in our network to mobile users under the mode of “calling party pays”. In 2005, our expenses for the prevention and detection of fraud were not significant. Because of cost reduction measures, we may elect not to upgrade our licenses relating to anti-fraud software or to cover maintenance fees. We have also reduced our fraud monitoring personnel. This has reduced our ability to detect fraudulent use of our services. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated statements and other financial information—Legal proceedings—Significant unpaid receivable.” The technology we use may be made obsolete by the technology used by our competitors All companies in the global telecommunications industry must adapt to rapid and significant changes in technology. While we have been installing what we believe to be a technologically advanced fiber optic network with a microwave overlay, we cannot assure you that this technology will not be challenged by competition from new or improved digital or other technologies in the near future. Technological changes may adversely affect our competitive position, cause an increase in customer churn, require substantial new capital expenditures and/or require write-downs of obsolete technology. 10 Table of Contents The Mexican government could temporarily seize or permanently expropriate our assets under certain circumstances The Mexican government has the authority to temporarily seize all assets related to a telecommunications concession in the event of natural disaster, war, significant public disturbance, threats to internal peace, economic events, and for other reasons related to national security. In addition, the Mexican government has the statutory right to permanently expropriate any telecommunications concession and claim any related assets for reasons of public interest. Mexican law provides for compensation in connection with losses and damages related to temporary seizure or expropriation. However, we cannot assure you that the actual compensation paid would be adequate or that such payment would be timely. As a result of technological and regulatory changes, we may face additional competition in the future from new market participants, which may result in lower prices for telecomminications services, less margins, and/or a loss of market share As a result of technological and regulatory changes, cable television networks operators and VoIP, providers may enter the Mexican telecommunications market, increasing the level competition. Several cable television network providers have requested that the SCT modify their concession titles to allow them to offer telephone services directly to the public. So far, the SCT has only passed a resolution allowing cable network operators to provide only the transport of local and long distance traffic, acting as a “carrier of carrier’s”, however, it is very likely that cable companies may be authorized in the near future to offer telephone services directly to the end users. Several companies without legal authorization have begun to target the Mexican telecommunications market to offer telephone services through Internet. In a different matter, as a result of the World Trade Organization settlement between Mexico and the United States regarding the disputes over the U.S. telecommunications companies access to the Mexican telecom market, on August 12, 2005, Cofetel published regulations authorizing the issuance of permits for the resale of national and international long distance public switched telecommunications services, through the use of minutes obtained from cocessionaries and using their infrastructure at all times. Additionally, the SCT is considering the auctioning of the 3.6 – 3.7 GHz spectrum band, that could open the market to new concessionaries and technologies, such as WiMax, that could compete with the service that we provide. If a “Long Distance Calling Party pays” system is implemented in Mexico, it could increase our costs and result in a loss of traffic Cofetel has drafted a policy to implement a “Long Distance Calling Party Pays” system, which is an agreement where mobile telephone subscribers do not pay from incoming calls, but, instead, the customer that originates a domestic or international call, either from a fixed line or mobile phone, pays the entire fee for placing the call. Even through the person receiving the call on the mobile phone does not pay to receive the call, the network from which the call originates must still compensate the terminating mobile network. If a “Long Distance Calling Party Pays” system is implemented in Mexico, we will need to increase our long distance rates, including international settlement rates, in order to pay. Factors relating to Mexico If Mexico experiences future political and economic crises, our business could be affected negatively We are a Mexican company with all of our operations in Mexico. Accordingly, the political and economic environment within Mexico can have a significant impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Mexican governmental actions concerning the economy and state-owned enterprises could have a significant impact on Mexican private sector entities in general and on us in particular, and on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including our securities. In July 2000, Mexico held national elections, which were won by Vicente Fox, the candidate of the National Action Party (Partido Acción Nacional). This 11 Table of Contents represents the first time in over 70 years that the Institutional Revolutionary Party (Partido Revolucionario Institucional) has not won the Presidency and has not secured the absolute majority of the Mexican Congress. Additionally, the Mexican national elections will be held in July 2006 to elect the president and members of both houses. We cannot predict the impact that these Mexican 2006 elections will have on the economy and particularly on the growth and deregulation of the telecommunications industry. We expect this election to be highly competitive and to generate uncertainty which may have an adverse effect on economic developments in Mexico, including a possible adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Social and political instability in Mexico or other adverse social or political developments in or affecting Mexico could adversely affect us and our ability to obtain financing. It is also possible that the political climate towards the July 2006 national elections may adversely affect the financial markets, as well as our ability to continue growing. In the past, Mexico has experienced economic crisis caused by internal and external factors, characterized by exchange rate instability, high inflation, high domestic interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction of international capital flows, a reduction of liquidity in the banking sector and high unemployment. These economic conditions substantially reduced the purchasing power of the Mexican population and, as a result, the demand for telecommunications services. Crisis such as these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on the market value of our securities. We do not have and do not intend to obtain political risk insurance. Changes in tax or other regulations could have an adverse impact on our financial condition Effective January 1, 2002, the Mexican Congress expanded the scope of the Special Production and Services Tax Law (Ley del Impuesto Especial Sobre Producción y Servicios), whereby, among other things, a new 10% tax was imposed on the rendering of certain telecommunications and supplementary services an amendment to this law, effective January 1, 2003 confirmed that our core business (the offering of local and long distances services) is not subject to this special tax. Although we believe, based on the advice of our tax and regulatory advisors, that certain other services that are part of our local service offerings, are also not subject to such special tax, we cannot assure you that the tax authorities may not interpret the law otherwise. In 2002 and 2003 tax years Maxcom accrued the tax corresponding to the services that might be claimed by the Mexican tax authorities. As of January 1, 2004, telecommunications and supplementary services are no longer subject to this tax. The operation of telecommunications systems in Mexico is subject to laws and regulations administered by the SCT and the COFETEL. These governmental agencies may take regulatory actions that could damage our business. Effective April 11, 2006, the Mexican Congress enacted an amendment to the Law on Radio and Television and to the Federal Telecommunications Law. These amendments were highly controversial. Pursuant to this amendment, the COFETEL has now also the ability to regulate broadcasting (radio and TV). Also as part of these amendments all the commissioners had to resign to their positions, effective May 12, 2006. To date the COFETEL commissions remain vacant. This uncertainty could adversely affect our business and subject us to additional legal liabilities or obligations. Additionally, we cannot predict how the SCT or COFETEL will interpret and implement the amendments to the Federal Telecommunications Law. We cannot predict how these new rules could affect our business. Foreign ownership restrictions limit our ability to raise equity capital Mexican law currently provides that no more than 49% of the full voting stock of a Mexican corporation holding a concession to provide telecommunications services, other than cellular services, may be held by non-Mexicans. Non-Mexicans represent 49% of our full voting stock. In addition, Mexican authorities have mandated that our limited voting shares, which are also referred to as neutral investment shares, may not represent more than 95% of our capital stock. Under our current capital structure, we have limited flexibility to raise equity capital from non-Mexican investors. As a result, any future sales of equity securities, may require substantial participation by Mexicans or a 12 Table of Contents waiver or modification of Mexican foreign investment laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that such a waiver or modification could be obtained. We may lose money because of peso devaluations While our revenues are almost entirely denominated in pesos, the majority of our obligations, and all of our long-term debt, are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, substantially all of our capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars. We are, and will be, exposed to peso devaluation risk. The peso has devalued substantially against the U.S. dollar in the past and may devalue significantly in the future. For example, the noon buying rate rose from Ps.3.45 per U.S.$1.00 on December 19, 1994 to Ps.5.00 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 1994 and Ps.7.74 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 1995, representing a 124.6% devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar. In 2004, the peso devalued 7.8% relative to the U.S. dollar, and in 2004, the peso revalued 0.8%, relative to the U.S. dollar and in 2005 the peso revalued 4.7% relative to the U.S. dollar. In the first five months of 2006, the peso 6.2% relative to the U.S. dollar. In July 2005, we acquired a hedge to cover the peso devaluation risk with IXE Casa de Bolsa, S.A. up to U.S.$16,709,000 dollars. This amount corresponds to U.S. dollar-denominated notes due 2007. Under this contract we have the option to buy the aforementioned amount of dollars at the exchange rate of $11.40 pesos per dollar. With this action, we eliminated the devaluation risk of a significant part of our U.S. dollar denominated obligations in the next year. Further declines in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations, including the old notes the new notes and the 133/4% Series B Senior Notes due 2007, which we refer to in this report as the “133/4% notes”. In addition, any further decrease in the value of the peso may negatively affect the value of Mexican securities such as ours. The peso-to-dollar exchange rate may experience significant devaluations in the future. Developments in other countries may impact the price of our securities We cannot assure you that the price of our securities will not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in the United States and in emerging market countries. Mexican financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country has had and can have significant effects on the prices of securities of issuers in other countries, including Mexico. Currently, the economic slow down in the United States, the military conflict in Iraq, the threat of terrorism as well as political and financial crisis in certain emerging markets have had a significant negative impact on the financial and securities markets in many emerging market countries, including Mexico. The effects of these crises may worsen, or new crises may occur, which may negatively affect the price of our new notes, the old notes, the 133/4% series B senior notes due 2007 (which we refer to in this report as the “13 3/4% notes”), the CPOs or our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial statements do not give you the same information as financial statements prepared under United States accounting principles We prepare our financial statements in accordance with Mexican GAAP and are reconciled to U.S. GAAP. Mexican GAAP differs in significant respects from U.S. GAAP, including in the treatment of the amortization of frequency rights, the capitalization of preoperating expenses, the capitalization of interest, the extinguishment of debt, the restructuring of troubled debt and deferred income taxes and employees’ profit sharing accounting for retirement obligations, and in the presentation of cash flow information. In particular, all Mexican companies must incorporate the effects of inflation directly in their accounting records and in published financial statements. We cannot assure you that these will be the only differences in the future. See note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the principal differences between Mexican GAAP and U.S. GAAP applicable to us. 13 Table of Contents You may suffer a U.S. dollar shortfall if you obtain a judgment against us or a distribution in bankruptcy In the event you are awarded a judgment from a court enforcing our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations under either our old or new notes or the liquidation preference under our series N-2 preferred shares, we will have the right to discharge our obligations by paying you in pesos at the exchange rate in effect on the date of payment of such judgment. Likewise, if we are declared bankrupt, we will have the right to discharge our obligations by paying our creditors in pesos at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the declaration of such bankruptcy. The exchange rate is currently determined by the Mexican Central Bank (Banco de México) every banking day in Mexico and published the following banking day in the Official Gazette of the Federation (Diario Oficial de la Federación). As a result of such currency conversion, you could face a shortfall in U.S. dollars. No separate actions exist or are enforceable in Mexico for compensation for any such shortfall. You should also be aware that in the event we are declared bankrupt by a Mexican court or if we are subject to a bankruptcy reorganization proceeding (concurso mercantil) in such court, our debt obligations, including the new notes, the old notes and the 133/4% notes, if any, will cease to accrue interest and payment of any of our debt obligations would depend on the outcome of the bankruptcy reorganization proceedings, which are often very lengthy. We may not be able to make payments in U.S. dollars In the past, the Mexican economy has experienced balance of payment deficits and shortages in foreign exchange reserves. While the Mexican government does not currently restrict the ability of Mexican or foreign persons or entities to convert pesos to foreign currencies generally, and U.S. dollars in particular, it has done so in the past and could do so again in the future. We cannot assure you that the Mexican government will not institute a restrictive exchange control policy in the future. Any such restrictive exchange control policy could prevent or restrict our access to U.S. dollars to meet our U.S. dollar obligations and could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact of any such measures on the Mexican economy. High inflation rates in Mexico may decrease demand for our services while increasing our costs In recent years, Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation. The annual rate of inflation, was 4.4%, 5.7%, 4.0% and 5.2% and 3.3% in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. High inflation rates can adversely affect our business and results of operations in the following ways: • inflation can adversely affect consumer purchasing power, thereby adversely affecting consumer demand for our services and products; and • to the extent inflation exceeds our price increases, our prices and revenues will be adversely affected in real terms. High interest rates in Mexico could increase our financing costs Mexico also has, and is expected to continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities averaged, 11.3%, 7.1%, 6.2%, 6.8% and 9.2%% for 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Although we do not currently have any peso-denominated debt, if we need to incur such debt in the future, it will likely be at high interest rates. 