D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition from other telecommunications operators, including China Mobile and China Telecom, and other companies that provide telecommunications or related services, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The telecommunications industry in China has been rapidly evolving. Following the restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry in 2008, we, along with China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, and China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, have become full-service telecommunications service providers that operate both fixed-line and mobile telecommunications networks in China. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Restructurings of the Telecommunications Industry” under Item 4. We face intense competition in each of our business lines from China Mobile and China Telecom and expect that this competition will further intensify. In particular, we compete with China Mobile and China Telecom in mobile services. For fixed-line services, we are a leading fixed-line operator in northern China, while China Telecom has a dominant market position in southern China and the MIIT granted to China Mobile the approval for China Mobile to authorize China Mobile Limited to operate the fixed-line telecommunications business in December 2013. In addition, the PRC Government is in the process of introducing new policies that may intensify competition among the three telecommunications operators, such as the policies that would allow mobile subscribers to switch to the networks of another telecommunications operator with their existing numbers in certain areas in China and the removal by the State Council of the MIIT’s approval requirement on the tariff standard of telecommunications services. -5- Table of Contents We also face increasing competition from other service providers, such as cable television companies and Internet service providers, which compete against our broadband access, voice and messaging services and other services by offering telecommunications or related services. Such competition may further intensify due to recent policies of the PRC Government. For example, the PRC Government is in the process of implementing policies regarding the convergence of television broadcast, telecommunications and Internet access networks, and has introduced a series of policies that encourage non-State-owned companies to enter the PRC telecommunications industry. In May 2013, the MIIT issued the pilot program for mobile telecommunications resale business that permit non-State-owned companies to purchase mobile services from telecommunications operators and provide mobile services to end-customers after repackaging and rebranding. The trial period is expected to end on December 31, 2015, subject to further adjustment by the MIIT. Since December 2013, the MIIT has approved 42 companies to operate such business. We also face increasing competition from other telecommunications operators for key employees. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could result in significant increase in our operating expenses, and we may be unable to attract or retain these personnel. Intensive competition from China Mobile and China Telecom, as well as other companies that provide telecommunications or related services, could lead to slower subscriber growth, lower usage or traffic volume of our telecommunications services, continued price pressure, higher customer acquisition and retention costs and higher labor costs, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The industry trends of mobile service substitution and mobile service migration from old generations to new generations may continue to have a material adverse effect on our fixed-line local telephone services and mobile services, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We experienced a continuing decline in the number of fixed-line local telephone subscribers and usage of our fixed-line local telephone services during the past several years due to the trend of mobile service substitution for fixed-line services. Consistent with trends in global markets in recent years, significant traffic from our fixed-line networks has been diverted to mobile networks, including mobile networks of other mobile operators. This trend has resulted in a continuing decline in our revenue derived from our fixed-line local telephone services in recent years. Similarly, as the technology of mobile services evolves, the trend of mobile services migration from old generations to new generations would generally have an adverse effect on our old generations services, including a growth slowdown or a decrease in the number of subscribers and usage. With this trend, we cannot assure you that we will successfully retain existing mobile services subscribers or attract mobile services subscribers of other telecommunications operators. For example, our Global System for Mobile Communications, or GSM mobile services have been negatively affected by the trend of migration to mobile broadband services, which resulted in a decrease in our subscribers and revenue of our GSM services. We have been taking various measures to retain our subscribers and their service usage of our fixed-line local telephone services and attract mobile service subscribers from other telecommunications operators to migrate to our mobile services network. For example, we have continued to improve our products and services and promote the integrated development of our mobile services and fixed-line services in order to mitigate the adverse impact caused by the above mentioned industry trends. If these efforts are not successful, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected. -6- Table of Contents Competition from foreign-invested operators may further increase the competition for employees, exacerbate price competition and increase our operating expenses, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. As a result of China’s accession to the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in December 2001 and the adoption of the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises in January 2002, which implement China’s commitments to the WTO, the PRC Government has agreed to gradually liberalize the various segments and regions of the telecommunications market in China to foreign investors. Currently, foreign investors are permitted to own up to 49% of joint ventures that offer basic telecommunications services without any geographic restrictions in China and up to 50% of joint ventures that offer value-added telecommunications services without any geographic restrictions in China. More foreign-invested operators may enter China’s telecommunications market as a result of this liberalization. They may have greater financial, managerial and technical resources and more expertize in network management and sales and marketing than we do. Increased competition from foreign-invested operators into the PRC telecommunications market may further increase the competition for skilled and experienced employees, exacerbate price competition and increase our customer acquisition costs and other operating expenses, and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Failure to respond to technological and industry developments in a timely and effective manner or failure to continually optimize, expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and hinder our growth. The telecommunications industry in China and elsewhere in the world has been experiencing rapid and significant changes in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. Such changes may render our existing services or technologies inadequate or obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond to technological and industry developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all. Our inability to respond successfully to technological or industry developments may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Furthermore, if the new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth may decline and our competitive position may be adversely affected. In addition, the growth of our business depends on whether we are able to continue to optimize the capacity, expand the coverage and improve the quality of, and upgrade our existing networks and infrastructure in a timely and effective manner. Our ability to expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to achieve the following on a timely basis and on acceptable terms: • manage technology migration in an effective manner, including effectively responding to a shortage of available Internet Protocol version 4 addresses and timely developing mobile network long-term evolution; • obtain adequate financing; • obtain relevant government licenses, permits and approvals; • obtain adequate network equipment and software; • retain experienced management and technical personnel; • obtain sufficient spectrum frequencies, network numbers and other telecommunications resources controlled by the PRC Government; • gain access to the sites for network construction or upgrade; and • enter into interconnection and other arrangements with other operators. -7- Table of Contents If we are not able to timely and effectively overcome the uncertainties and difficulties we may encounter in expanding and upgrading our networks and infrastructure, our competitive position, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The successful development of our mobile broadband services is subject to market demand, consumer acceptance, technological challenges, competition on service fees, terminal subsidies and other marketing expenses, and other uncertainties, and expected benefits from investments in our mobile broadband networks. We commercially launched our 3G services and 4G services in October 2009 and March 2014, respectively, and we will continue to make investments in our mobile broadband networks, expand our network coverage and improve our network quality in the future. We may experience various difficulties in the development of our mobile broadband services, including software, network, handset and other technical issues. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion or that we will not encounter other difficulties. Moreover, we cannot assure you that: • we will be able to gain access to sufficient sites for mobile broadband network expansion; • there will be sufficient demand for mobile broadband services, or our mobile broadband services will be more popular among potential subscribers than those of our competitors; • our mobile broadband services will generate an acceptable or commercially viable rate of return; and • we will not encounter unexpected technological difficulties in implementing mobile broadband technologies. Any failure or delay in expanding and upgrading our mobile broadband networks, any increase in the associated costs (including the costs and expenses that may be incurred as a result of the changes of our marketing and sales policies, including terminal subsidies, to meet the market demand), or any problem encountered in our operations of mobile broadband services could hinder the recovery of our significant capital investment in mobile broadband services, respectively, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. For example, our depreciation and amortization expenses increased by 8.3% from RMB68.20 billion in 2013 to RMB73.87 billion in 2014, primarily due to our continuing expansion and upgrade of our fixed-line and mobile broadband networks. Also, our network, operation and support expenses increased by 12.3% from RMB33.70 billion in 2013 to RMB37.85 billion in 2014, mainly attributable to the expansion of our network coverage as well as our increased investment in network operation and enhanced network support and maintenance. If such expenses continue to increase without corresponding increase in the relevant service revenue, our profitability would be adversely affected. Because we rely on arrangements with other telecommunications operators, changes to the terms or availability of these arrangements may result in disruptions to our services and operations and may result in customer dissatisfaction and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our ability to provide telecommunications services depends upon arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, interconnection is necessary to complete all calls between our subscribers and subscribers of other telecommunications operators. We, either through ourselves or through Unicom Group, have established interconnection and transmission line leasing arrangements with other telecommunications operators, including our parent company, as required to conduct our current business. Any disruption to our interconnection with the networks of those operators or other international telecommunications carriers with which we interconnect may affect our operations, service quality and customer satisfaction, thus adversely affecting our business. Furthermore, we are generally not entitled to collect indirect or consequential damages resulting from disruptions in the networks with which we are interconnected. Any disruption in existing interconnection arrangements and leased line arrangements or any significant change of their terms, as a result of natural events or accidents or for regulatory, technical, competitive or other reasons, may lead to temporary service interruptions and increased costs that can seriously jeopardize our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Difficulties in executing alternative arrangements with other operators on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, including the inability to promptly establish additional interconnection links or increase interconnection bandwidths as required, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. -8- Table of Contents Interruptions to our networks and operating systems or to those with which we interconnect, including those caused by natural disaster and service maintenance and upgrades, may disrupt our services and operations and may result in customer dissatisfaction and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our network infrastructure and the networks with which we interconnect are vulnerable to potential damages or interruptions from floods, wind, storms, fires, power loss, severed cables, acts of terrorism and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities or any other failure of our networks or systems, or the networks to which we are interconnected, may result in consequential interruptions in services across our telecommunications infrastructure. For example, in August 2014, an earthquake registering 6.5 on the Richter scale struck Lu Dian region of Yunnan Province. In 2014, certain areas of China suffered from severe floods. Our network equipment, including our base stations, in the affected areas sustained extensive damage, leading to service stoppage and other disruptions in our operations in those areas. Any future natural disasters may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our services and operations. Moreover, our networks and systems and the networks with which we interconnect also require regular maintenance and upgrades. Such maintenance and upgrades may cause service disruptions. Network or system failures, as well as high traffic volumes, may also affect the quality of our services and cause temporary service interruptions. Any such future occurrence may result in customer dissatisfaction and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditure and debt service requirements, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. We continue to have a significant level of capital expenditure and debt service requirements necessary to implement our business strategies. We incurred RMB84.88 billion for capital expenditure in 2014. We expect to continue incurring significant capital expenditure in 2015. To the extent these capital expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain future financing on a timely basis and/or on acceptable terms. Even if we obtain such financing, our financing cost may increase significantly as a result of additional financing or higher interest rate. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 5. Our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including, among others: • our financial condition and results of operations; • our creditworthiness and relationship with lenders; • changes in credit policies, other government or banking policies that may affect credit markets in China; • conditions of the economy and the telecommunications industry in China; • conditions in relevant financial markets in China and elsewhere in the world; and • our ability to obtain any required government approvals for our financings. We may continue to experience declines in ARPU for our telecommunications services. In 2014, the ARPU for our mobile services decreased by 8.4% from 2013, primarily due to (i) the intensified competition with other telecommunications operators in China; (ii) the implementation of value-added tax to replace business tax in the PRC telecommunications industry; (iii) the change in our subsidies towards a model of lesser handset subsidies and more rebates or discounts on service charges to our subscribers, which resulted in a direct reduction of our mobile service revenue; and (iv) many new subscribers are users with lower usage of telecommunications services. We may continue to experience declining ARPU in the foreseeable future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have been making efforts to manage those effects by allocating more resources to diversify our service offerings, particularly the value-added services, promote our integrated mobile and fixed-lined services to encourage more usage of our services, and develop our high-end customers, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be able to achieve the anticipated results. -9- Table of Contents There remain uncertainties relating to the future operation of China Tower Company Limited. In July 2014, we, China Mobile and China Telecom, the three major telecommunications operators in China, jointly established China Tower Company Limited, or the Tower Company (formerly known as China Communications Facilities Services Corporation Limited). Pursuant to the arrangement of setting up the Tower Company, we have made an investment of RMB3,010 million in cash in exchange for a 30.1% equity interest in the Tower Company. China Mobile and China Telecom subscribed for the remaining 40% and 29.9% equity interests, respectively. See “Item 4. Information of the Company — B. Business Overview — Establishment of the Tower Company”. The Tower Company will be primarily engaged in the construction, maintenance and operation of telecommunications towers in the PRC . It will also be engaged in the construction, maintenance and operation of ancillary facilities, including base station control rooms, power supplies, air conditioning and interior distribution systems, as well as the provision of maintenance services of base station equipment. In addition, the Tower Company is expected to acquire certain tower assets from the three major telecommunications operators, and will lease the telecommunications towers and the ancillary facilities to the three major telecommunications operators for their operations. While the purpose of establishing the Tower Company is to enhance the efficiency of the capital expenditure of the three major telecommunications operators, to improve the network coverage and to reduce the competition among the three major telecommunications operators on sites of telecommunications towers, there remain uncertainties regarding the achievement of such purpose and the future operation of the Tower Company. For example, the operation of the Tower Company is at a preliminary stage, and the three major telecommunications operators are currently formulating plans to contribute their respective telecommunications tower assets into the Tower Company and the amount of rental payments the Tower Company will charge the three major telecommunications operators in the future remains to be determined. Therefore, there are uncertainties as to the evaluation of the telecommunications tower assets to be contributed into the Tower Company, the timetable for the tower asset contributions, the capability of the Tower Company to execute the tower assets integration and construction plans, the amount of rental payments the Tower Company will charge us in the future. In addition, as we do not control the Tower Company, the Tower Company may not act in the best interest of us. As such, we cannot assure you that our investment in the Tower Company will achieve the anticipated results in the near future as expected, or at all. Our controlling shareholder, Unicom Group, can exert influence on us and cause us to make decisions that may not always be in the best interests of us or our other shareholders and may fail to provide services and facilities that we rely on to operate our business. Unicom Group indirectly controlled an aggregate of approximately 74.36% of our issued share capital as of April 17, 2015 and all of our executive directors also serve as directors or executive officers of Unicom Group. As our controlling shareholder, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws and regulations, Unicom Group is effectively able to control our management, policies and business by controlling the composition of our board of directors and, in turn, indirectly controlling the selection of our senior management, determining the timing and amount of our dividend payments, approving significant corporate transactions, including mergers and acquisitions, and approving our annual budgets. The interests of Unicom Group as our controlling shareholder may conflict with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. As a result, Unicom Group may cause us to enter into transactions or take (or fail to take) other actions or make decisions that may not be in our or our other shareholders’ best interests. -10- Table of Contents In addition, our operations depend on a number of services and facilities provided by Unicom Group. For example, Unicom Group provides us with international gateway services, interconnection services, sales agency and collection services and provision of premises. See “B. Related Party Transactions” under Item 7. The interests of Unicom Group as provider of these services and facilities may conflict with our interests. Failure by Unicom Group to fulfill its obligations under any of these arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We currently have limited alternative sources of supply for these services and facilities and, as a result, may have limited ability to negotiate with Unicom Group regarding the terms for providing these services and facilities. Changes in the availability, pricing or quality of these services or facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. The previous internal reorganization of Unicom Group for the A Share offering created a two-step voting mechanism that requires the approval of the minority shareholders of both our Company and China United Network Communications Limited (formerly known as China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited), or the A Share Company, for significant related party transactions between us and Unicom Group. In October 2002, Unicom Group completed an internal reorganization of its shareholding in our company and the initial public offering in China of its then newly established subsidiary, the A Share Company. As part of this restructuring, a portion of Unicom Group’s indirect shareholding in our company was transferred to the A Share Company, whose business is limited to indirectly holding the equity interest of our company without any other direct business operations. A voting mechanism was established to allow public shareholders of the A Share Company to indirectly participate in our shareholders’ meetings and a two-step voting mechanism was established for the approval of related party transactions. As a result, any significant related party transaction between us or our subsidiaries and Unicom Group or its other subsidiaries will require the separate approval of the independent minority shareholders of both our company and the A Share Company. Related party transactions approved by our independent minority shareholders nevertheless cannot proceed if they are not approved by the independent minority shareholders of the A Share Company. This adds another necessary step of approval process for those transactions. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Two-Step Voting Arrangements” under Item 4. Investor confidence and the market prices of our shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely impacted if we are or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we include in this annual report a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 was effective. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 has been audited by KPMG, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on page F-2. However, we cannot assure you that, in the future, our management will continue to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for future periods, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, reviewed or evaluated, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the relevant requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes in the future could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our shares and ADSs. Moreover, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including through a failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the market prices of our shares and ADSs. -11- Table of Contents Our outstanding convertible bonds may dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders and may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. On October 18, 2010, Billion Express Investments Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of our company, completed the issue of the 2015 Convertible Bonds, which are exchangeable into ordinary shares of our company. Pursuant to the subscription agreement with respect to the 2015 Convertible Bonds, the holders of the 2015 Convertible Bonds may, beginning on November 28, 2010, elect to convert its bonds into our ordinary shares at an initial conversion price of HK$15.85 per share, subject to certain adjustments. As of April 17, 2015, none of the 2015 Convertible Bonds has been converted into our ordinary shares. Assuming a full conversion of the 2015 Convertible Bonds at the current conversion price of HK$15.05 per share, the bonds would be convertible into 947,818,928 ordinary shares, representing approximately 3.81% of our enlarged issued and outstanding share capital as of April 17, 2015. The conversion of the 2015 Convertible Bonds, if converted in full or in part, would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders and our earnings per share, and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Even if the 2015 Convertible Bonds are not converted, their existence may encourage the short selling of our ordinary shares by the holders of the 2015 Convertible Bonds as well as other market participants, depressing the price of our ordinary shares. Certain employee misconduct may not be detected or prevented in a timely manner, and such misconduct may damage our reputation and cause the trading price of our ordinary shares and ADSs to decrease. In the course of investigations conducted jointly by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the Communist Party of China and the Ministry of Supervision of the PRC in November and December 2014, two officers of our Group, who are not directors or members of the senior management of our company, were alleged to have engaged in unlawful conduct and other misconduct. Such allegations of unlawful conduct include the acceptance of bribes. While these incidents are still under investigation, we believe that such unlawful conduct and other misconduct are isolated incidents of individual misconduct. In response to these investigations, we have taken and will continue to take various measures, including enhancing our employee’s compliance awareness and strengthening our risk prevention in this regard, to detect and prevent similar misconduct by our employees in the future. However, we cannot assure you that these measures will effectively detect or prevent all misconduct by our employees in a timely manner or at all. If these measures prove ineffective in detecting or preventing employee misconduct, our reputation may be severely harmed, our operations could be disrupted and the trading price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could decrease significantly. -12- Table of Contents The implementation of value-added tax to replace business tax in the PRC telecommunications industry has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our net income and profitability. In April 2014, the Ministry of Finance, or the MOF, and the State Administration of Taxation of the People’s Republic of China, or the SAT, jointly issued a notice, pursuant to which the pilot program regarding the replacement of business tax with value-added tax, or VAT, was implemented nationwide for the telecommunications industry from June 1, 2014. The notice sets out the scope of taxable telecommunications services and the tax rates applicable to various telecommunications services. The VAT rate for basic telecommunications services is 11% and the VAT rate for value-added telecommunications services is 6%, as opposed to the business tax of 3% imposed on the revenue that was applicable to us prior to June 1, 2014. On the one hand, as the revenue is presented in our financial statements after excluding any VAT in accordance with IFRS, the implementation of VAT has a negative impact on our revenue. On the other hand, the implementation of VAT reduces our costs and expenses to the extent that we are entitled to certain input VAT credits. To the extent that the decrease in revenue is larger than the decrease in our costs and expenses due to the implementation of VAT in the PRC telecommunications industry, there is a negative impact on our net income. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operations Results — Year Ended December 31, 2014 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2013” under Item 5 for more details. We have taken certain initiatives to manage the adverse impact from the implementation of VAT, such as increasing the contribution of the non-voice services to our total revenue, optimizing the marketing models and operations, and enhancing tax planning capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that the measures we take to manage the adverse effect on our net income due to the implementation of the VAT in the PRC telecommunications industry will achieve the anticipated results in the near future. In 2011, the NDRC initiated an anti-monopoly investigation on us relating to the price charged for Internet dedicated leased line access service provided by us to Internet service providers. Any further investigation may adversely affect our business operations, our business, or the prices of our shares and ADSs. The NDRC initiated an anti-monopoly investigation in 2011 relating to the price charged for Internet dedicated leased line access service provided by us to Internet service providers. In response to the NDRC’s investigation, we (i) provided the NDRC with pricing, volume, turnover and other information relevant to our Internet access bandwidth leasing services with Internet service providers for the year 2010, (ii) conducted a comprehensive self-inspection of our operations, and (iii) submitted to the NDRC a proposal for enhancement initiatives and an application for suspension of the NDRC’s investigation. Through our comprehensive self-inspection of our operations, we have identified room for improvement in pricing management and relatively wide pricing variation, in respect of our services relating to the Internet dedicated leased line access service provided by us to the Internet service providers. In addition, the quality of interconnection between us and other backbone network operators also requires further improvement. In December 2013 and April 2014, we submitted two reports to the NDRC regarding the improvement of our price management of Internet dedicated leased line access service. As of the date of this annual report, the NDRC has not informed us of any further investigation or improvement requirement. Nonetheless, we cannot assure you that the NDRC will not carry out any further investigation or impose any improvement requirement on us in the future, which investigation or improvement requirement, if any, may have an adverse effect on our business operations, our reputation, or the prices of our shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in China Government regulation of the telecommunications industry in China may affect our ability to respond to market conditions or competition, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. As a telecommunications operator in China, we are subject to regulation by, and under the supervision of, the MIIT, which is the primary regulator of the telecommunications industry in China. The MIIT is responsible for formulating policies and regulations for the telecommunications industry, granting telecommunications licenses, allocating frequency spectrum and numbers, formulating interconnection and settlement arrangements between telecommunications operators, and enforcing industry regulations. Other PRC Governmental authorities also regulate capital investment and foreign investment in the telecommunications industry. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters” under Item 4. The regulatory framework within which we operate may constrain our ability to implement our business strategies and limit our ability to respond to market conditions or to changes in our cost structure. Moreover, we operate our businesses pursuant to approvals granted by the State Council of the PRC, or the State Council, and under licenses granted by the MIIT. If these approvals or licenses were revoked or suspended, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to various regulatory requirements as to service quality, pricing, real-name registration for telecommunications service subscribers and other actions, and failure to comply with such requirements may subject us to mandatory penalties or other punitive measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will not experience any adverse impact on our business during the course of our compliance with regulatory requirements in the PRC telecommunications industry. For instance, in 2015, we will strictly comply with the PRC Government’s policy relating to the real-name registration of telecommunications service subscribers by taking more stringent measures to manage the subscriber accounts that are not real-name registered or inactive. These measures are likely to cause a growth slowdown or a decrease in the number of our subscribers in 2015. Similarly, the PRC regulators may promulgate and implement new regulations, rules and policies on the telecommunications industry from time to time, and we cannot guarantee that any such new regulations, rules or policies will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. -13- Table of Contents Regulatory or policy changes relating to the PRC telecommunications industry or any future industry restructuring may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC Government continues to regulate many aspects of the telecommunications industry in China. Potential changes in regulations and policies and their implementation could lead to significant changes in the overall industry environment and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. As part of the comprehensive plan to restructure the telecommunications industry in China, the PRC Government has been adjusting and improving its regulatory oversight of the telecommunications industry, including further deregulating telecommunications tariffs. The MIIT, under the direction of the State Council, is currently preparing a telecommunications law to provide a uniform regulatory framework for the telecommunications industry in China. As of the date of this annual report, the telecommunications law has not yet been officially promulgated by the PRC Government. The promulgation of the telecommunications law and other new telecommunications regulations or rules, or future changes thereto, such as enforcement of existing regulations and policies, may materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Issues may also arise regarding the interpretation and enforcement of China’s WTO commitments regarding telecommunications services. Any future regulatory changes, such as those relating to the issuance of additional telecommunications licenses, interconnection and settlement arrangements, changes in technical and service standards, universal service obligations and spectrum and number allocations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The PRC telecommunications industry has been extensively restructured in recent years and may be subject to further restructuring. Such further industry restructuring may materially affect the operations of all telecommunications operators in China, including us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope and effect of any further restructuring on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC Government may require us, along with other telecommunications service providers in China, to provide universal services with specified obligations, and we may not be compensated adequately for providing such services. Under the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the State Council, telecommunications service providers in China are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC Government authorities, and the MIIT has the authority to delineate the scope of universal service obligations. The MIIT, together with the finance department and pricing authorities of the State Council, are also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. These rules have not yet been promulgated, and there are currently no specific regulatory requirements relating to the provision of universal services in China. While specific universal services obligations are not yet clear, we believe that such services may include mandatory provision of basic telecommunications services in less economically developed areas in China and mandatory contribution by telecommunications service providers to a universal service fund. In addition, as part of the transitional measures prior to the formalization of a universal service obligation framework, the MIIT has required major telecommunications service providers in China, including Unicom Group, to participate in a project to provide telephone and broadband access services in tens of thousands of remote villages in China. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters — Universal Services” under Item 4. We cannot predict whether the PRC Government will specifically require us to undertake universal service obligations in the future. To the extent we are required to do so, it is currently uncertain whether we will be adequately or timely compensated by the PRC Government or by the universal service fund. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize an adequate return on investments for expanding networks to, and providing telecommunications services in, less economically developed areas due to potentially higher capital expenditure requirements, lower usage by customers and lack of flexibility in setting our tariffs. We also cannot predict whether we will be required to make a contribution to the universal service fund. Any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. -14- Table of Contents Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile devices could impair our ability to retain and attract customers of our mobile services, reduce mobile service usage or result in litigation. Concerns have been expressed in some countries that the electromagnetic signals emitted by wireless telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels, and interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. In addition, mobile operators have been subject to lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of mobile handset usage or proximity to base stations or seeking protective or remedial measures. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with the transmission of electromagnetic signals will not impair our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce mobile service usage or result in litigation. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Our operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in or deterioration of China’s economic, political and social conditions. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC Government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments. The global financial crisis that unfolded in 2008 and continued in the past few years has led to a marked slowdown in the economic growth of the PRC. The GDP growth rate of China decreased from 11.4% in 2007 to 7.4% in 2014. It’s uncertain whether China’s economic growth will return to the previous level of growth or it will encounter deterioration. In light of the slowdown of China’s economic growth, our subscribers’ usage of our services may decrease and we may experience increased difficulties in retaining existing subscribers or acquiring new subscribers, which could materially and adversely affect our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. If the PRC Government revises the current regulations that allow a foreign-invested enterprise to pay foreign exchange in current account transactions, our operating subsidiary’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. The ability of our major operating subsidiary, CUCL, to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us depends on existing and future foreign exchange regulations in China. The Renminbi is currently convertible by foreign-invested enterprises in China to settle transactions under the current account, which include trade- and service-related foreign exchange transactions and payments of dividends. The Renminbi currently cannot be freely converted without regulatory approval for transactions under the capital account, which includes outbound foreign investment and payments on foreign loans. CUCL, which holds substantially all of our assets and through which we conduct substantially all of our business, is a foreign-invested enterprise in China. However, there is no assurance that in the future the relevant PRC government authorities will not impose any limitation on the ability of foreign-invested enterprises to purchase foreign exchange to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations or to pay dividends. In that event, CUCL’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted and the interests of our shareholders may, in turn, be affected. -15- Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi could adversely affect the prices of our shares and ADSs as well as our profitability. Substantially all of our revenue and costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our borrowings, equipment purchases and other capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC Government changed its decade-old policy to permit Renminbi to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC. On May 19, 2007, the PBOC announced a policy to further expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market. With the increased floating range of the Renminbi’s value against foreign currencies, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float. Increased fluctuations of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value in foreign currency terms of cash flow generated from our operations or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs, and therefore the price of our shares and ADSs. Any future Renminbi devaluations could also increase our equipment importation costs or lead to significant fluctuations in the exposure of our foreign-currency-denominated liabilities, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us and to foreign investors and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our wholly owned operating subsidiary, CUCL, is organized under the laws of PRC and is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC Government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, property, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the relatively limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and/or enforcement of these laws and regulations involves uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available to you as an investor and to us in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Therefore, the protection provided by the PRC legal system may not be the same as the legal protection available to investors in the United States or elsewhere. Furthermore, various uncertainties involved in the rulemaking, interpretation and enforcement process of the laws, regulations and rules in China that are related to our business operations, in particular, those in respect of telecommunications and enterprise income tax, may also materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. Most of our current operations are conducted in China and most of our assets are located in China. In addition, five out of 10 of our current directors and all of our current executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments. Our Hong Kong counsel has also advised us that Hong Kong has no arrangement for the reciprocal enforcement of judgments with the United States. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the United States or any other jurisdiction, including judgments against us or our directors, executive officers, underwriters or experts, may be difficult or impossible. -16- Table of Contents Natural disasters and health hazards in China may severely disrupt our business and operations and may severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, snowstorms and floods may result in significant and extensive damage to our base stations and network equipment. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, over the past several years and the outbreak of influenza A (H1N1). In April 2013, a major earthquake registering 7.0 on the Richter scale struck Ya’an region of Sichuan Province. In August 2014, another major earthquake registering 6.5 on the Richter scale struck the Lu Dian area of Yunnan Province. In 2014, certain areas of China suffered from severe floods. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any other future natural disasters and health hazards may have on our business. Any future natural disasters and health hazards may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our operations. Furthermore, natural disasters and health hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any natural disasters or health hazards in China may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our investors do not have the benefit to rely on the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board inspection of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a company registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and traded publicly in the United States, our independent registered public accounting firm is required by the laws of the United States to be registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, and undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. The PCAOB, however, is currently unable to inspect a registered public accounting firm’s audit work relating to a company’s operations in China where the documentation of such audit work is located in China. Accordingly, our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of our operations in China is not subject to the PCAOB inspection. As a result, our investors do not have the benefit of the PCAOB inspection of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit works and quality control procedures. KPMG, our independent registered public accounting firm, relies on the Chinese member firm of the KPMG network for assistance in completing the audit work on us. If an order is imposed on the Chinese member firm of the KPMG network suspending its practice before the SEC, KPMG’s audit work may be delayed and, as a result, we may be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. On January 22, 2014, Judge Cameron Elliot, an SEC administrative law judge, issued an initial decision suspending the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms, including KPMG network, from, among other things, practicing before the SEC for six months. In February 2014, the initial decision was appealed. While under appeal and in February 2015, the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms reached a settlement with the SEC. As part of the settlement, each of the Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms agreed to settlement terms that include a censure; undertakings to make a payment to the SEC; procedures and undertakings as to future requests for documents by the SEC; and possible additional proceedings and remedies should those undertakings not be adhered to. Our independent registered public accounting firm currently relies on the Chinese member firm of the KPMG network for assistance in completing the audit work associated with our operations in China. If the settlement terms are not adhered to, Chinese member firms of “Big Four” accounting firms may be suspended from practicing before the SEC which could in turn delay the timely filing of our financial statements with the SEC. In addition, it could be difficult for us to timely identify and engage another qualified independent auditor to replace KPMG. A delinquency in our filings with the SEC may result in NYSE initiating delisting procedures, which could adversely harm our reputation and have other material adverse effects on our overall growth and prospect. -17- Table of Contents Risk Relating to our ADSs Holders of our ADSs will not have the same voting rights as the holders of our shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will receive proxy materials with respect to matters to be voted on at a meeting of shareholders through the depositary and may only exercise voting rights by appointing the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Consequently, if the materials to be forwarded to holders of ADSs by the depositary are delayed or if the depositary sets deadlines by which holders of ADSs must give their instructions regarding how to vote that fall too soon after mailing of the proxy materials, the holders of our ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. Thus, it is possible that such holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, may not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. 