D. Risk Factors — Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in China — Regulatory or policy changes relating to the PRC telecommunications industry or any future industry restructuring may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects” under Item 3. In particular, China Telecom is expected to engage in cellular businesses following the proposed industry restructuring, and the competition in the telecommunications industry is expected to further intensify as a result of the proposed industry restructuring. -5- Table of Contents Our proposed merger with China Netcom may not be completed and completion of the proposed merger is subject to various risks. On June 2, 2008, our board of directors and the board of directors of China Netcom, jointly announced that we formally presented proposals to the board of directors of China Netcom, and requested the China Netcom board to put forward such proposals to the shareholders of China Netcom to consider a merger of us and China Netcom by way of a scheme of arrangement by China Netcom under Hong Kong laws, which we refer to as the Scheme or the proposed merger. If the Scheme becomes effective, China Netcom will become our wholly-owned subsidiary. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Merger between Us and China Netcom by Way of a Scheme of Arrangement” under Item 4. The effectiveness of the Scheme is subject to various conditions, including, among other things: (i) approval of our shareholders; (ii) approval by the requisite majority of disinterested shareholders of China Netcom; (iii) sanction of the Scheme (with or without modifications) and the confirmation of the reduction of the share capital of China Netcom by the High Court of Hong Kong; and (iv) receipt of all authorizations, consents and approvals from or with any governmental or regulatory body and any third party consents. We cannot assure you that the conditions for the completion of the Scheme will be satisfied. If the conditions are not satisfied, the Scheme may not become effective and we may not be able to complete the proposed merger and China Netcom may not become our wholly-owned subsidiary. In addition, completion of the Scheme may require us to prepay a portion of our term loan facility with 13 financial institutions in accordance with the terms of the loan agreement. If we are required to do so, we expect to use the proceeds from the proposed disposal of our CDMA business, or other funds, to fund this repayment. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions” under Item 4. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our proposed merger with China Netcom and the proposed merger may also expose us to uncertainties and risks, any of which could materially adversely affect our future business performance and financial condition. If the Scheme becomes effective, we will then commence the process of integrating the business of China Netcom into our existing operations. We believe that the proposed merger represents an important transaction for us, following the industry trend of convergence between fixed lines and wireless businesses within the PRC, allowing us to benefit from increased economies of scale, reinforce our market position, improve our overall competitiveness and lay the foundation for sustainable long-term growth. We anticipate that through effective integration, synergies would occur in six key areas, including through: (i) a clear strategic positioning of our enlarged group; (ii) an improvement of the market position of our enlarged group; (iii) a combination of resources and strengths to achieve economies of scale and larger scope; (iv) technological and product innovation to address changing market trends; (v) enhanced human capital and organizational structure; and (vi) a more optimal capital structure and enhanced financial capabilities. Nevertheless, the scale, scope and nature of the integration and customer retention efforts required in connection with the proposed merger present significant challenges, and we may be unable to integrate our businesses on the expected timeline and realize the anticipated benefits or realize such benefits on the proposed timeline. In particular, the proposed merger may not meet our expectations and the realization of the anticipated benefits may be delayed or reduced as a result of numerous factors, some of which are outside our control. These factors include, among other things: -6- Table of Contents • difficulties in integrating the operations of China Netcom, including information systems, personnel, operating and accounting policies and procedures, and overlapping operations, subsidiaries and branch networks; • unforeseen contingent risks or latent liabilities relating to the proposed merger that may become apparent in the future; • difficulties in managing a much larger business; • a failure to complete or to timely complete the proposed sale of our CDMA business to China Telecom or to achieve the benefits anticipated from such disposal; • loss of key personnel; and • increase in competition in the PRC telecommunications industry resulting from the ongoing restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry, which among other things, may require us to increase our marketing efforts. Furthermore, the proposed merger may also expose us to uncertainties and risks, including uncertainties and risks associated with: • the management and development of China Netcom’s fixed-line business; • the integration of China Netcom’s business with our existing business; • the integration of existing significant accounting policies and critical accounting estimates between China Netcom and us; • unforeseen or potential liabilities and exposures associated with China Netcom’s business and financial results; • the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses; and • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers. Any of the above could adversely impact our anticipated benefits from the proposed merger and could materially adversely affect our future business performance, operating results and financial condition. The contemplated disposition of our CDMA business may not be completed. On June 2, 2008, we, CUCL and China Telecom Corporation Limited entered into a framework agreement which sets out the key terms and conditions on which we will proceed with the proposed sale of our CDMA mobile telecommunications business to China Telecom. However, the framework agreement does not contain all the necessary details in respect of our proposed CDMA business disposal. We expect to enter into additional transaction agreements which will specify detailed terms and conditions of the proposed CDMA business disposal. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions” under Item 4. The completion of our proposed CDMA business disposal is subject to various conditions, including, among other things: (i) the requisite shareholder approvals in respect of the disposal of the CDMA business and the CDMA network and (ii) receipt of any other regulatory or corporate approvals that are necessary for the completion of the proposed CDMA business disposal. If any of these conditions are not satisfied on or before December 31, 2008, or such other date as we, CUCL and Telecom may agree, the framework agreement will automatically terminate. -7- Table of Contents We cannot assure you that the conditions for the completion of the proposed CDMA business disposal will be satisfied. If we or any other relevant parties are unable to satisfy any of the conditions for the completion of the proposed CDMA business disposal or satisfy these conditions in the time frame that we expect, we may not be able to sell our CDMA business to China Telecom. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our proposed CDMA business disposal and our proposed CDMA business disposal may also expose us to uncertainties and risks, any of which could materially adversely affect our future business performance and financial conditions. In recent years, our GSM business has become the most significant contributor to our financial and operational performance. We believe that our proposed CDMA business disposal will enable us to focus our financial and operational resources on the enhancement of our GSM business and the anticipated future development of 3G services. Moreover, if our proposed merger with China Netcom is completed, we believe that our proposed CDMA business disposal will help better position our enlarged group to execute a more focused business development plan, enhance our long-term competitiveness, and achieve a more distinct strategic positioning. However, even if our proposed CDMA business disposal is completed, the benefits anticipated to result from the disposal may not be realized in the expected scale or timeline due to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, and the proposed CDMA business disposal may also expose us to uncertainties and risks. In particular: • we may need to further strengthen our customer relationships and may also need to further increase our marketing efforts and expenses; • in connection with the completion of our proposed CDMA business disposal, a number of our employees will be transferred to China Telecom, including employees who have relevant GSM service related experience and existing job duties, and the completion of the proposed CDMA business disposal may result in the loss of certain key personnel and operational expertise; • we may have to further increase capital expenditures for expanding our other existing businesses, including GSM business; and • any deterioration in our CDMA service revenue for the six months ending June 30, 2008 may result in a downward adjustment to the consideration for the proposed CDMA business proposal pursuant to the adjustment mechanism set forth in the framework agreement with China Telecom, and, as result, we may receive less consideration upon completion of the CDMA business disposal than currently anticipated. Any of the above could adversely impact the anticipated benefits from our proposed CDMA business disposal and could materially adversely affect our future business performance and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to prepay a portion of our term loan facility with 13 financial institutions under the loan agreement and we expect to make such prepayment from the proceeds of the disposal of our CDMA business. -8- Table of Contents Our CDMA services may continue to face competition from GSM services in China. We are the only cellular operator offering CDMA services in China. The majority of cellular subscribers in China today are subscribers to services based on the global system for mobile communications, or GSM. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 41.93 million CDMA subscribers, while there were over 547 million cellular subscribers in China as of December 31, 2007, according to the Ministry of Information Industry. CDMA cellular services compete with GSM services for cellular subscribers, who may be reluctant to switch to CDMA cellular services because of the need to obtain a new CDMA handset and a new phone number. As a result of the smaller subscriber base, the overall size of the supply chain for CDMA cellular services in China is still significantly smaller than the supply chain for GSM cellular services. Whether our CDMA services can gain a more favorable market position will continue to be subject to a number of uncertainties, for example, whether we can effectively retain our existing subscribers and attract sufficient new CDMA cellular subscribers, whether we can effectively utilize our CDMA marketing expenses to accelerate the revenue growth of our CDMA business, and whether we can continue to rapidly increase revenues from value-added services by capitalizing on the technological advantages of CDMA 1X wireless data services. Any of these uncertainties may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our CDMA cellular services and consequently our financial condition and results of operations. On June 2, 2008, we announced plans for a sale of our CDMA mobile telecommunications business to China Telecom. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions — Proposed Disposal of CDMA Business” under Item 4. Our CDMA and GSM businesses compete with each other in certain areas, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of these businesses. To implement differentiated and dedicated management of our CDMA and GSM businesses, we have implemented the segregation of the sales and marketing functions of these two businesses, which requires (i) more delineated allocation of resources in personnel, management, finance and information technology, among others, and (ii) more management coordination at both headquarter and branch levels. However, we may not be able to achieve favorable results or maintain such results from the implementation of our segregation of the sales and marketing functions of our CDMA and GSM businesses. In addition, the competition between the two businesses for our internal resources as well as external cellular subscribers may not lead to overall better results of our operations. If we cannot coordinate the development of our CDMA and GSM services effectively, or obtain adequate resources for both our GSM and CDMA cellular services, the growth and profitability of these businesses and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. On June 2, 2008, we announced plans for the sale of our CDMA mobile telecommunications business to China Telecom. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions — Proposed Disposal of CDMA Business” under Item 4. -9- Table of Contents Failure to continually optimize, expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure or changes in telecommunications technology and technological standards could adversely affect our competitive position and hinder our growth. The growth of our businesses depends on whether we are able to continue to optimize and expand the coverage and capacity of our networks, to upgrade the technology and to improve the quality of our networks in a timely and effective manner. We also need to constantly improve the quality of our existing networks in order to enhance our telecommunications services. In addition, the telecommunications industry in China and elsewhere in the world is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and technological standards, including the technology migration to 3G. Such changes may render our networks and systems inadequate or obsolete. As a result of such changes, we may need to make significant changes and upgrades to our existing networks and infrastructure or construct new networks and infrastructure, which may require substantial capital expenditures and other resources. Although the PRC government has indicated that it will issue three 3G licenses to telecommunications services providers in China upon the completion of the proposed industry restructuring announced in May 2008, the timing as well as the manner of such issuances is uncertain. As a result, the timing and magnitude of the 3G-related capital expenditures and other investments continue to involve many uncertainties that are beyond our control, and depend in part on when and in what manner we may be granted such a license as well as which 3G-based technology standard we may be required to adopt. If we are required to make substantial capital expenditures and other investments in order to effectively implement new 3G-based technologies, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected in one or more given periods. Our ability to expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to achieve the following on a timely basis and on acceptable terms: • manage technology migration in an effective manner; • obtain adequate financing; • obtain relevant government licenses, permits and approvals; • obtain adequate network equipment and software; • retain experienced management and technical personnel; • obtain sufficient spectrum frequencies, network numbers and other telecommunications resources controlled by the PRC government; • gain access to the sites for network construction or upgrade; and • enter into interconnection and other arrangements with other operators. If we are not able to timely and effectively overcome these uncertainties and other difficulties we may encounter in expanding and upgrading our networks and infrastructure, our competitive position, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. -10- Table of Contents The CDMA handset promotional packages have increased our costs and expenses and may adversely affect our profitability. In order to accelerate the development of our CDMA business and subscriber growth, we have offered CDMA handset promotional packages. Under those arrangements, CDMA handsets were provided to subscribers for their use during the specified contract periods as long as such subscribers agreed to incur a minimum amount of service fees during the contract period. The maximum contract period is two years. The cost of the handsets provided to subscribers under these contractual arrangements, treated as deferred customer acquisition costs, was deferred, to the extent recoverable, and amortized over the contractual period during which we expect to receive the minimum contract revenue. Therefore, these promotional packages tend to increase our costs and expenses. While we have significantly reduced the use of such CDMA handset promotional packages in recent years, the carrying amount of the deferred customer acquisition costs has been gradually reduced but remained sizeable. For the year ended December 31, 2007, amortization of such deferred customer acquisition costs was approximately RMB4.00 billion and the carrying amount of such costs amounted to RMB2.86 billion as of December 31, 2007. As a result, while the use of these CDMA promotional packages has accelerated the growth of our CDMA business, it may adversely affect the profitability of our CDMA business and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, upon expiration of the contract period of these CDMA handset promotional packages, certain subscribers did not renew their contracts and switched to cheaper service plan packages or subscribed to our competitors’ cellular services, which contributed to the decrease of ARPU and the increase of the churn rate of our CDMA business in 2007. Such effects, if they continue, may adversely affect the profitability of our CDMA business and our financial condition and results of operations. In order to control the costs of our CDMA promotional packages, we have implemented a policy to centralize the purchases of CDMA handsets since 2005. This centralized purchasing policy requires us to maintain a certain level of CDMA handsets inventory, which is subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. As of December 31, 2007, we maintained an inventory of CDMA handsets of RMB1.50 billion. On June 2, 2008, we announced plans for a sale of our CDMA mobile telecommunications business to China Telecom. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions — Proposed Disposal of CDMA Business” under Item 4. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditure and debt service requirements, our financial condition and growth prospects will be adversely affected. We continue to have a significant level of capital expenditure and debt service requirements. We plan to spend approximately RMB30.95 billion for capital expenditure in 2008, an increase of 20.3% from 2007. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain future financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial condition, competitive position and growth prospects. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including, among others: • our financial condition and results of operations; • our creditworthiness and relationship with lenders; -11- Table of Contents • the condition of the economy and the telecommunications industry in China; • conditions in relevant financial markets in China and elsewhere in the world; and • our ability to obtain any required government approvals for our financings. Our long distance, data and Internet businesses remain small compared to China Telecom or China Netcom, and competition from China Telecom, China Netcom and other telecommunications service providers may adversely affect our profitability and growth in these businesses. The fixed line operators of China Telecom and China Netcom currently hold the strongest market position in the public switched long distance telephony, or PSTN, and data services markets in their respective service areas. They are also the leading providers of Internet protocol telephony, or IP telephony, and Internet access services in China. China Telecom and China Netcom have competitive advantages over us in areas such as customer base, financial resources, fixed network coverage and “last-mile” access. Our IP telephony services also compete with other service providers including China Satellite Communication, or China SatCom, and China TieTong Telecommunications Corporation, or China TieTong. In 2007, intense competition continued to contribute to the decreases in average realized tariff rates for long distance services. In addition, our lack of licenses to operate local telephony networks has continued to hinder the growth of our long distance, data and Internet businesses. Competition from China Telecom, China Netcom and other service providers may continue to adversely affect the profitability and growth of our long distance, data and Internet businesses. On June 2, 2008, our board of directors and the board of directors of China Netcom jointly announced proposals of a merger of us and China Netcom by way of a scheme of arrangement of China Netcom under Hong Kong laws. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Merger between us and China Netcom by way of a Scheme of Arrangement — Joint Merger Announcement” under Item 4. Our churn rates and doubtful debt ratio may increase. The monthly average churn rate of our GSM and CDMA cellular services increased from 2.47% in 2006 to 2.76% in 2007 and from 1.62% in 2006 to 2.04% in 2007, respectively. The reasons for such increases include, among others, competition from other service providers, the increase in the proportion of low-end, cost-sensitive subscribers among new subscribers and discontinuance of some contractual subscribers upon expiration of their contract period under certain CDMA handset subsidy packages. Increased churn rates of our GSM and CDMA services may adversely affect our market share and increase our costs of additional customer acquisitions and bad debt, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Due to an underdeveloped credit reporting system and intense competition in the cellular telecommunications market in China, our doubtful debt ratio for cellular services, calculated as the amount of doubtful debt provided during the year divided by revenue from our cellular services, may increase in the future. Our doubtful debt ratio of our GSM and CDMA cellular businesses was at 1.73% for the year ended December 31, 2007. If such ratio increases in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. -12- Table of Contents On June 2, 2008, we announced plans for a sale of our CDMA mobile telecommunications business to China Telecom Corporation Limited. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions.” Obstacles in interconnection with networks of other telecommunications operators could jeopardize our operations. The effective provision of our cellular, long distance telephony and other services requires the interconnection between our networks and those of Unicom Group, and the networks of China Telecom, China Netcom, China Mobile and other telecommunications operators. Any obstacles in existing interconnection arrangements or any significant change of their terms, as a result of natural events, accidents, or for regulatory, technological, competitive or other reasons, could lead to temporary service disruptions and increased costs that can seriously jeopardize our operations and adversely affect our profitability and growth. Difficulties in the execution of new interconnection arrangements on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, including the inability to promptly establish additional interconnection links or increase interconnection bandwidths as required, could also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and growth prospects. Our controlling shareholder, Unicom Group, can exert influence on us and cause us to make decisions that may not always be in the best interests of our other shareholders. Unicom Group indirectly controlled an aggregate of 71.18% of our issued share capital as of May 31, 2008. As our controlling shareholder, Unicom Group is able to influence our major business decisions through its control of our board of directors. All of our executive directors also serve as directors or executive officers of Unicom Group. In addition, our operations depend on a number of services provided by Unicom Group. For example, Unicom Group leases to us, on an exclusive basis, capacity on the CDMA network located in our cellular service areas, provides us with access to international gateways, supplies us with subscriber identity module cards, or SIM cards, user identity module cards, or UIM cards, and calling cards and provides equipment procurement services and customer services to us. Unicom Group and we also provide a number of services to each other, including interconnection services, sales agency and collection services and provision of premises. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Our Relationship with Unicom Group” under Item 4 of this annual report. The interests of Unicom Group and our interests in these transactions may differ and Unicom Group may cause us to make decisions that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. The internal reorganization of Unicom Group for the A Share offering has created a two-step voting mechanism that will require the approval of the minority shareholders of both our Company and the A Share Company for significant connected transactions between us and Unicom Group. In October 2002, Unicom Group completed an internal reorganization of its shareholding in our company and the initial public offering in China of its newly established subsidiary, China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited, or the A Share Company. As part of this restructuring, a portion of Unicom Group’s indirect shareholding in our company was transferred to the A Share Company, whose business is limited to indirectly holding the equity interest of our company without any other direct business operations. A voting mechanism was established to allow public shareholders of the A Share Company to indirectly participate in our shareholders’ meetings and a two-step voting mechanism was established for the approval of connected transactions. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Further Restructuring of Unicom Group and Initial Public Offering of the A Share Company in 2002” under Item 4 below. As a result, significant connected transactions between us or our subsidiaries and Unicom Group or its subsidiaries will require the separate approval of the independent minority shareholders both of our -13- Table of Contents company and of the A Share Company. Connected transactions approved by our independent minority shareholders nevertheless cannot proceed if they are not approved by the independent minority shareholders of the A Share Company. This adds another necessary step of approval process for those transactions. Investor confidence and the market prices of our shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely impacted if we are or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we include in this annual report a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2007, our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 was effective. PricewaterhouseCoopers, an independent registered public accounting firm, expressed unqualified opinions on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. However, we cannot assure you that, in the future, our management will continue to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for future periods, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, reviewed or evaluated, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the relevant requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes in the future could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in China Regulatory or policy changes relating to the PRC telecommunications industry or any future industry restructuring may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC government continues to regulate many aspects of the telecommunications industry in China. Potential changes in regulations and policies and their implementation could lead to significant changes in the overall industry environment. These changes may include, among others, new regulatory decisions or measures relating to issuance of 3G licenses, or selection of 3G technology standards, “calling-party-pays” arrangements, roaming charges or other tariff adjustments, fulfillment of telecommunications service providers’ universal service obligations and the associated expenses, usage of numbers or frequency resources and the associated fees, or standards and mechanisms of interconnection settlement, and could substantially affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, the former Ministry of Information Industry encouraged the cellular operators to implement “calling-party-pays” billing arrangements in China in the first half of 2007. As a result, we have adopted the “calling-party-pays” tariff policy in all of our new service packages. The implementation of “calling-party-pays” arrangements contributed to the decreases in service revenues from our cellular service and our ARPU in 2007 and may continue to adversely affect our revenue, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, in -14- Table of Contents February 2008, the former Ministry of Information Industry and the NDRC jointly promulgated the Notice in Relation to Reduction of Tariff Cap for Domestic Mobile Roaming Services, or the Tariff Notice, to require mobile telecommunication companies in China to adjust mobile roaming charges where necessary to comply with the following new requirements: • unifying domestic roaming charges with charges for long distance calls made during domestic roaming; • unifying the charges for pre-paid and post-paid mobile subscribers; • setting different tariff caps for callers and receivers in the context of domestic mobile roaming, with the tariff cap for callers being set at RMB0.6 per minute and the tariff cap for receivers being set at RMB0.4 per minute; and • abolishing the additional charge for use of the long distance network in the context of domestic roaming. The Tariff Notice also requires telecommunication companies in China to upgrade their existing billing systems to comply with the above new requirements by March 1, 2008, which can be extended to May 1, 2008. We finished adjusting our charges and upgrading our billing system by March 1, 2008 in response to the requirements set forth in the Tariff Notice and such compliance may have an adverse impact on our revenue, financial condition and operating results. On May 24, 2008, the MII, the NDRC and the Ministry of Finance issued a joint announcement on furthering the reform of the telecommunications industry in China. According to the joint announcement, the principal objectives of this further reform include, among others: (i) supporting the formation of three telecommunications services providers, each with nationwide network resources, comparable scale and standing, full-service capabilities and competitive strength, in order to help optimize the allocation of telecommunications resources and foster market competition; (ii) promoting homegrown innovation by telecommunications services providers; and (iii) enhancing the service capabilities and quality of, and the regulatory framework governing, the telecommunications industry. To achieve these objectives, the PRC government is encouraging the following restructuring transactions: (a) the acquisition of our CDMA business by China Telecom, (b) the merger of us and China Netcom, (c) the transfer of the basic telecommunications services business currently operated by China SatCom into China Telecom, and (d) the consolidation of China Tietong into China Mobile Communications Corporation. Pursuant to the restructuring announcement, the detailed implementation plans relating to these restructuring transactions should be carried out in accordance with customary practices in the domestic and international capital markets. In addition, according to the restructuring announcement, three 3G licenses are expected to be granted to telecommunications services providers in China after the completion of the restructuring transactions, although the timing, as well as the manner, of such issuances of 3G licenses are uncertain. Furthermore, to maintain a balanced development of the telecommunications industry, the PRC government stated that it will adopt asymmetrical regulatory measures, as necessary, over a period of time following the completion of the above restructuring transactions. The PRC government also stated that it seeks to promote the integration of telecommunications services and networks of different services providers, including the offering of roaming services across different mobile telecommunications networks. While we are currently assessing the impact that the proposed restructuring may have on us, we cannot assure you that any potential change in the competitive landscape of the telecommunications industry in the PRC would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments” under Item 4. -15- Table of Contents The recent change in the regulatory authority of the PRC telecommunications industry may introduce new regulatory initiatives and such new regulatory changes as well as the proposed telecommunications law, once adopted, may adversely affect us. Under a proposal by the State Council which was approved by the People’s Congress in March 2008, the former Ministry of Information Industry has been consolidated into the MII. The MII may introduce significant new regulatory initiatives, and we cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and results of operations will not be adversely affected by such regulatory initiatives. Moreover, we understand that the MII is in the process of drafting a telecommunications law that, once adopted by the National People’s Congress, will become the basic telecommunications statute and provide the principal legal framework for telecommunications regulations in China. Although we expect that such law will positively affect the overall development of the telecommunications industry in China, we do not know what the full nature and scope of the law will be or when the law will be adopted and become effective. We cannot assure you that such telecommunications law or its implementing rules will not contain provisions that could materially change the regulatory environment of the PRC telecommunications industry and cause adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Issuance of additional telecommunications service licenses, including 3G licenses, may further intensify competition in the PRC telecommunications industry and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Since the mid-1990s, the PRC government has taken various measures, including licensing more providers of telecommunications services, to encourage competition in the telecommunications industry. Currently, the Chinese telecommunications market has primarily six providers of basic telecommunications service — China Telecom, China Mobile, China Netcom, China Satcom, China Railcom and our Company — and thousands of value-added service providers. In addition, the government may grant additional telecommunications service licenses in the future, including 3G licenses. In May, 2008, the PRC government announced that three 3G licenses are expected to be granted to telecommunications services providers in China upon the completion of the proposed restructuring. However, it is uncertain when the 3G licenses will be issued, which 3G-based technology standard or standards will be adopted and whether and when we will be issued a 3G license. The issuance of 3G licenses may significantly change the overall competition environment of the wireless telecommunications industry and further intensify the competition among telecommunications service providers in China. While we have participated in the 3G trial test and study programs sponsored by the MII (as well as the former Ministry of Information Industry) and have been preparing for developing 3G business by upgrading our networks and services, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will grant us the requisite approvals and 3G license or licenses in a timely or favorable manner, or at all. Even if we are granted one or more 3G licenses, we cannot assure you that we will successfully manage the technology migration to 3G and 3G operations and effectively compete with other cellular services provider or providers. After its accession to the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in December 2001, China promulgated the Administrative Regulations on Telecommunications Companies with Foreign Investment, implementing its commitments to the WTO. Those commitments include the gradual reduction of foreign ownership restrictions in the telecommunications industry and the step-by-step opening of the telecommunications market in China to foreign operators. Currently, foreign investors are permitted to own up to 49% of joint ventures that offer mobile voice and data telecommunications services without any geographic restrictions in China. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters — Entry -16- Table of Contents into the Industry” under Item 4. When the PRC government grants licenses to additional telecommunications service providers in the future, licensees may include foreign-invested operators. Such foreign-invested operators entering into China’s telecommunications market may have competitive advantages over us in areas such as financial resources, network management and technical expertise. Increased competition in China’s telecommunications services industry could impede the growth of our businesses, further increase competition for skilled and experienced employees, result in or exacerbate price competition and increase our customer acquisition costs and other costs and expenses, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. The telecommunications industry in China may not sustain its pace of rapid growth, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The telecommunications industry in China has experienced rapid growth in the last several years, especially in the cellular communications sector. The total number of cellular subscribers in China increased from 43.3 million at the end of 1999 to 547 million by December 31, 2007. Cellular penetration increased from 3.5% to over 41.6% nationwide during the same period. The growth in cellular subscribers has been slowing down as cellular penetration continues to increase in our cellular service areas. In addition, ARPU for the cellular communications market in China continues to decline. For example, ARPU of our CDMA subscribers declined from RMB65.8 in 2006 to RMB58.1 in 2007. Any slowdown in the growth in China’s telecommunications industry may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The PRC government may require us, along with other telecommunications service providers in China, to provide universal services with specified obligations, and we may not be compensated adequately for providing such services. Under the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the State Council, telecommunications service providers in China are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC government authorities, and the MII has the authority to delineate the scope of universal service obligations. The MII, together with government finance and pricing authorities, is also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. While specific universal services obligations are not yet clear, we believe that such services may include mandatory provision of basic telecommunications services in less economically developed areas in China and mandatory contribution to a universal service fund. In addition, as part of the transitional measures prior to the formalization of a universal service obligation framework, the former Ministry of Information Industry and the MII has required major telecommunications service providers in China, including Unicom Group, to participate in a project to provide telephone services in thousands of remote villages in China. In participating in such project, Unicom Group, with our assistance, undertook the universal service obligation to extend telecommunications service coverage to all administrative-level villages in China from 2004 to 2007 primarily through its CDMA and satellite transmission networks. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters — Universal Services” under Item 4. We cannot predict whether the PRC government will specifically require us to undertake universal service obligations in the future. To the extent we are required to do so, it is currently uncertain whether we will be adequately or timely compensated by the government or by the universal service fund. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize an adequate return on investments for expanding networks to, and providing telecommunications services in, those less economically developed areas due to potentially higher capital expenditure requirements, lower usage by customers and lack of flexibility in setting our -17- Table of Contents tariffs. We also cannot predict whether we will be required to make contribution to the universal service fund. Any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. On June 2, 2008, we announced plans for a sale of our CDMA mobile telecommunications business to China Telecom. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments — Proposed Disposal of Our CDMA Business to China Telecom and Related Transactions.” Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile devices could impair our ability to retain and attract customers, reduce cellular service usage or result in litigation. Concerns have been expressed in some countries that the electromagnetic signals emitted by wireless telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels, and interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. In addition, cellular operators have been subject to lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of cellular handset usage or proximity to base stations or seeking protective or remedial measures. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with the transmission of electromagnetic signals will not impair our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce cellular service usage or result in litigation. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to manage the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, including a decline in individual spending activities, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, China has experienced increased inflation since the second half of 2007. Such increased inflation has caused and may continue to cause the PRC government to implement administrative and economic measures in an effort to managing the pace of the economy growth. In 2007, the PRC government raised interest rates six times and raised banks’ required reserve ratio ten times and it may continue these and other significant measures to control inflation and cool down the economy. The overall demand for our services may be reduced as a result of the decreased level of economic activities, which could adversely affect our business, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. If the PRC government revises the current regulations that allow a foreign investment enterprise to pay foreign exchange in current account transactions, our operating subsidiary’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. The ability of CUCL to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us depends on existing and future foreign exchange regulations in China. The Renminbi is currently convertible by foreign-invested enterprises in China to settle transactions under the current account, which include trade -18- Table of Contents and service related foreign exchange transactions and payments of dividends and interest on foreign loans. Renminbi currently cannot be freely converted without regulatory approval for transactions under the capital account, which includes outbound foreign investment and principal payments on foreign loans. CUCL, which holds substantially all of our assets and through which we conduct substantially all of our business, is a foreign-invested enterprise in China. This status allows it to purchase foreign exchange at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE. However, there is no assurance that the relevant PRC government authorities will not in the future impose any limitation on the ability of foreign-invested enterprises to purchase foreign exchange to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations or to pay dividends. In that event, CUCL’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted and the interests of our shareholders may, in turn, be affected. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi could adversely affect the prices of our shares and ADSs as well as our profitability. Substantially all of our revenues and costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our borrowings, equipment purchases and other capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to that of U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China. As of December 31, 2007, the Renminbi has appreciated approximately 13.5% in value against the U.S. dollar since July 21, 2005. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. With increased floating range of the Renminbi’s value against foreign currencies, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the future. Increased fluctuations of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value in foreign currency terms of cash flow generated from our operations or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs, and therefore the price of our shares and ADSs. Any future Renminbi devaluations could also increase our equipment importation costs or lead to significant fluctuations in the exposure of our foreign-currency-denominated liabilities, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. -19- Table of Contents The new provisions of the PRC Employment Contract Law may substantially increase our labor-related costs in the future. A new labor contract law in China, or the Employment Contract Law, became effective on January 1, 2008. The Employment Contract Law contains a number of provisions that are more favorable to employees than the prior labor laws and regulations in China. For example, an employee may terminate the employment contract without notice if his or her employer fails to pay regulatory social insurance contributions for the employee, or the employer has a workplace policy that violates PRC law and causes harm to the employee. In such case, the employee is entitled to compensation by the employer in an amount equal to his or her average monthly salary for the prior twelve months times the number of years the employee has served the employer. An employer is also obligated to compensate an employee if the employer decides not to renew an existing employment contract, unless the employee refuses the employer’s offer to renew the expiring employment contract with the same or better terms. In addition, an employer is obligated to provide an open-ended employment contract after an employee has completed two consecutive terms of fixed-term employment, under which the employer will be liable to pay damages to an employee if the employer terminates the employment without cause, until the employee reaches an age at which he or she is eligible for pension payment. As a result of the implementation of the new Employment Contract Law, we may have greater difficulty terminating underperforming employees and may incur higher levels of labor costs in order to comply with the provisions of the new law, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us and to foreign investors. Our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, CUCL, is organized under the laws of PRC and is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, property, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the relatively limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and/or enforcement of these laws and regulations involves uncertainties. Therefore, the PRC legal system may not afford the same legal protection available to investors in the United States or elsewhere. Natural disasters and health hazards in China may severely disrupt our business and operations and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In May 2008, an earthquake registering 8.0 on the Richter scale struck Sichuan Province and its neighboring areas in China, devastating much of the affected areas and causing tens of thousands of deaths and widespread injuries. Our network equipment, including our base stations, in the affected areas sustained extensive damages in the earthquake, leading to service stoppage and other disruptions in our operations in those areas. In addition, in January and February 2008, certain areas of China, in particular its southern, central and eastern regions, experienced what was reportedly the most severe winter weather in the country in half a century, which resulted in significant and extensive damage to various properties, blackouts, transportation and communications disruptions and other losses in the affected areas. Our base stations in the affected areas suffered from power failures and our network equipment sustained other damage due to this severe winter weather. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, over the past five years. -20- Table of Contents We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that any future natural disasters and health hazards may have on our business. Any future natural disasters and health hazards may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our operations. Furthermore, natural disasters and health hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any natural disasters or health hazards in China may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 