RISK FACTORS The risks, uncertainties and other factors set forth below may cause our actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. If any of these risks occur, our business may be adversely affected, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all of part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If we are not able to maintain comparable store sales growth, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our comparable store sales for fiscal 2004 increased 18.1% principally as a result of the nationwide multi-media marketing program we initiated in February 2004 and an improved economy. However, our comparable store sales declined 15.9% and 9.7% in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. We believe the principal factors that will affect comparable store results are the following: • the continuing appeal of our concept; • the effectiveness of our marketing efforts to attract new and repeat guests; • consumer confidence and general economic conditions; • our ability to anticipate and to respond, in a timely manner, to consumer trends; • the continued introduction and expansion of our merchandise offerings; • the impact of new stores that we open in existing markets; • mall traffic; • competition; • the timing and frequency of national media appearances and other public relations events; and • weather conditions. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to maintain comparable stores sales growth in the future. If we are unable to maintain comparable store sales growth our results of operations could be significantly harmed. Our future growth and profitability could be adversely affected if our marketing initiatives are not effective in generating sufficient levels of brand awareness and guest traffic. In February 2004, after development and testing in selected markets, we introduced nationwide a multi-media marketing program targeting our core demographic guests, principally parents and children, which contributed to an increase in our comparable store sales in fiscal 2004. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of this marketing program and future marketing efforts that we undertake, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our brand, interactive shopping experience and products; • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market; • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for marketing expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media) in order to maintain acceptable operating margins and return on marketing investment; Table of Contents • select the right markets in which to market; and • convert consumer awareness into actual store visits and product purchases. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased total or comparable store sales or generate sufficient levels of product and brand name awareness. We may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. Our growth strategy requires us to open a significant number of new stores in the United States and Canada each year. If we are not able to open new stores or to effectively manage this growth, it could adversely affect our ability to grow and could significantly harm our profitability. Our growth will largely depend on our ability to open and operate new stores successfully in the United States and Canada. We opened 21, 43, and 37 stores in fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. We plan to open 28 to 30 new stores in the United States and Canada in fiscal 2005 and anticipate further store openings in subsequent years. Our ability to identify and open new stores in desirable locations and operate such new stores profitably is a key factor in our ability to grow successfully. We cannot assure you as to when or whether desirable locations will become available, the number of Build-A-Bear Workshop stores that we can or will ultimately open, or whether any such new stores can be profitably operated. We have not always succeeded in identifying desirable locations or in operating our stores successfully in those locations. For example, as of March 15, 2005, we have closed two stores. We cannot assure you that we will not have other stores in the future that we may have to close. Our ability to open new stores and to manage our growth also depends on our ability to: • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • finance the preopening costs, capital expenditures and working capital requirements of the stores; • manage inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • hire, train and retain qualified store personnel; • develop cooperative relationships with our landlords; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In Summer 2005, we anticipate opening our flagship store in New York City. This store will be much larger than our typical mall-based stores and include additional facilities, such as a restaurant, that we do not currently operate in our stores. Because we have little experience with this type of store, we may be unable to generate revenues from this store at a level that justifies keeping the store open. Closing this store could not only have an adverse impact on our profitability, as the costs of opening this store will be much larger than those for a typical store, but also, as our flagship store, could have an adverse impact on the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand. Increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources as a result of our growth strategy could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our profitability. If we are not able to franchise new stores outside of the United States and Canada, if we are unable to effectively manage our international franchises or if the laws relating to our international franchises change, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected and we could be exposed to additional liability. In 2003, we began to expand the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand outside of the United States, opening our own stores in Canada and our first franchised location in the United Kingdom. We intend to continue expanding outside of the United States and Canada through franchising in several countries over the next several years. As of March 15, 2005, there were 12 Build-A-Bear Workshop franchised stores located in the Table of Contents United Kingdom, Japan, Denmark, and Australia. We have limited experience in franchising and we may not be successful in maintaining and implementing our international franchising strategy. In addition, we cannot assure you that our franchisees will be successful in identifying and securing desirable locations or in operating their stores. These markets frequently have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing United States and Canadian markets, which may cause these stores to be less successful than those in our existing markets. Additionally, our franchisees may experience merchandising and distribution challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. The operations and results of our franchisees could be negatively impacted by the economic or political factors in the countries in which they operate. These challenges, as well as others, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our franchising strategy will depend upon our ability to attract qualified franchisees with sufficient financial resources to develop and grow the franchise operation and upon the ability of those franchisees to develop and operate their franchised stores. Franchisees may not operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel and may not operate their stores profitably. As a result, our franchising strategy may not be profitable to us and, moreover, our image and reputation may suffer. For example, our franchisees in South Korea and France have performed below expectations and the store in South Korea has been closed. We have transferred the franchise agreement for South Korea to another party and are seeking to transfer the agreement for France. Furthermore, even if our international franchising strategy is successful, the interests of franchisees might sometimes conflict with our interests. For example, whereas franchisees are concerned with their individual business strategies and objectives, we are responsible for ensuring the success of the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand and all of our stores. The laws of the various foreign countries in which our franchisees operate govern our relationships with our franchisees. These laws, and any new laws that may be enacted, may detrimentally affect the rights and obligations between us and our franchisees and could expose us to additional liability. If we are unable to generate interest in and demand for our interactive retail experience, including being able to identify and respond to consumer preferences in a timely manner our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. We believe that our success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to attract guests with our interactive shopping experience and our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. We cannot assure you that our past success will be sustained or there will continue to be a demand for our “make your own stuffed animal” interactive experience, or for our stuffed animals, animal apparel and accessories. A decline in demand for our interactive shopping experience, our animals, animal apparel or accessories, or a misjudgment of consumer preferences or fashion trends, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may be unable to attract guests to and generate demand for our new Friends 2B Made interactive shopping experience. If our Friends 2B Made concept fails to be successful and we determine not to continue it, we may incur charges as a result and it may have an adverse impact on the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand. In addition, if we miscalculate the market for our merchandise or the purchasing preferences of our guests, we may be required to sell a significant amount of our inventory at discounted prices or even below costs, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition and profitability. A decrease in the customer traffic generated by the shopping malls in which we are located, which we depend upon to attract guests to our stores, could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. While we invest heavily in integrated marketing efforts and believe we are more of a destination location than traditional retailers, we rely to a great extent on customer traffic in the malls in which our stores are located. In order to generate guest traffic, we generally attempt to locate our stores in prominent locations Table of Contents within high traffic shopping malls. We rely on the ability of the malls’ anchor tenants, generally large department stores, and on the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the addition or loss of anchors and co-tenants, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls or the desirability, safety or success of shopping malls. If we are unable to generate sufficient guest traffic, our sales and results of operations would be harmed. A significant decrease in shopping mall traffic could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. A decline in general economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products and have an adverse affect on our liquidity and profitability. Since purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our guests, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general or perceived slowdown in the United States or Canadian economy or uncertainty as to the economic outlook could reduce discretionary spending or cause a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products. Any of these factors would likely cause us to delay or slow our expansion plans, result in lower net sales and could also result in excess inventories, which could, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns and related costs associated with higher levels of inventory and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. Our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of competitors. Because we are mall-based, we see our competition as those mall-based retailers that compete for prime mall locations, including various apparel, footwear and specialty retailers. We also compete with toy retailers, such as Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, Sears, Kmart and Target and other discount chains, as well as with a number of manufacturers that sell plush toys in the United States and Canada, including, but not limited to, Ty, Fisher Price, Mattel, Russ Berrie, Applause, Boyd’s, Hasbro, Commonwealth, Gund and Vermont Teddy Bear. Since we offer our guests an experience as well as merchandise, we also view our competition as any company that competes for our guests’ time and entertainment dollars, such as movie theaters, restaurants, amusement parks and arcades. In addition, there are several small companies that operate “create your own” teddy bear and stuffed animal experiences in retail stores and kiosks. Although we believe that currently none of these companies offers the breadth and depth of the Build-A-Bear Workshop products and experience, we cannot assure you that they will not compete directly with us in the future. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources, and greater name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future, particularly in geographic locations that represent new markets for us. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. The success of our business depends upon our senior management closely supervising all aspects of our business, in particular the operation of our stores and the design, procurement and allocation of our merchandise. Also, because guest service is a defining feature of the Build-A-Bear Workshop corporate culture, we must be able to hire and train qualified managers and Bear Builder associates to succeed. The loss of certain key employees, including Maxine Clark, our founder and Chief Executive Bear, Barry Erdos, our President and Chief Operating Officer Bear, or other members of our senior management, our inability to attract and retain other qualified key employees or a labor shortage that reduces the pool of qualified store Table of Contents associates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not maintain key person insurance with respect to our executives, management or other personnel, except for limited coverage of our Chief Executive Bear which we do not believe would be sufficient to completely protect us against losses we may suffer if her services were to become unavailable to us in the future. We rely on a few vendors to supply substantially all of our merchandise, and any disruption in their ability to deliver merchandise could harm our ability to source products and supply inventory to our stores. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We purchased approximately 71% of our merchandise in fiscal 2004, approximately 76% in fiscal 2003, and approximately 74% in fiscal 2002, from two vendors. In addition, our third largest vendor accounted for approximately 15% of our merchandise purchases in fiscal 2004 as compared to approximately 9% and 8% in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. These vendors in turn contract for our orders with multiple factories for the production of merchandise. Our relationships with our vendors generally are on a purchase order basis and do not provide a contractual obligation to provide adequate supply, quality or acceptable pricing on a long-term basis. Our vendors could discontinue sourcing merchandise for us at any time. If any of our significant vendors were to discontinue their relationship with us, or if the factories with which they contract were to suffer a disruption in their production, we may be unable to replace the vendors in a timely manner, which could result in short-term disruption to our inventory flow as we transition our orders to new vendors or factories which could, in turn, disrupt our store operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our merchandise is manufactured by foreign manufacturers; therefore the availability and costs of our products may be negatively affected by risks associated with international manufacturing and trade. We purchase our merchandise from domestic vendors who contract with manufacturers in foreign countries, primarily in China. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions or labor strikes or lock-outs, could adversely affect our business. For example, in fiscal 2002, we experienced disruption to our import of merchandise as well as increased shipping costs associated with a dock-worker labor dispute. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, especially China, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. New outbreaks of highly infectious epidemics in Asia, or elsewhere, such as SARS and avian influenza, or Asian bird flu, and concerns over its spread could have a negative impact on commerce and general economic conditions in Asia and could result in quarantines or closures of our suppliers’ facilities in Asia, including China, and adversely impact our ability to purchase goods from our suppliers. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. In addition, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, particularly the Chinese renminbi, could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. Our profitability could be adversely affected by high petroleum products prices. The profitability of our business depends to a certain degree upon the price of petroleum products, both as a raw material used in the production of our animal skins and as a component of the transportation costs for delivery of inventory from our vendors to our stores. Petroleum prices have recently risen to historic or near historic highs. We are unable to predict what the price of crude oil and the resulting petroleum products will be in the future. We may be unable to pass along to our customers the increased costs that would result from higher petroleum prices. Therefore, any such increase could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. Table of Contents We rely on third parties to manage the warehousing and distribution aspects of our business. If these third parties do not adequately perform these functions, our business would be disrupted. The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to distribute merchandise to locations throughout the United States in a timely manner. We depend on third party distribution centers in St. Louis, Missouri, Los Angeles, California and Toronto, Canada to receive and warehouse substantially all of our merchandise and supplies. We rely on additional third parties to ship all of our merchandise and supplies from the distribution centers to our stores. Events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, malfunctions of our third party distributors’ distribution information systems, shipping problems or termination of our distribution agreements by such distributors would result in delays or disruptions in the timely distribution of merchandise to our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations could cause the price of our common stock to substantially decline. Retailers generally are subject to fluctuations in quarterly results. Our operating results for one period may not be indicative of results for other periods, and may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • the timing of new store openings and related expenses; • the profitability of our stores; • increases or decreases in comparable store sales; • the timing and frequency of our marketing initiatives; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; • changes in consumer preferences; • the continued introduction and expansion of merchandise offerings; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • actions of competitors or mall anchors and co-tenants; • seasonal shopping patterns, including whether the Easter holiday occurs in the first or second quarter and other vacation schedules; • the timing and frequency of national media appearances and other public relations events; and • weather conditions. If our future quarterly results fluctuate significantly or fail to meet the expectations of research analysts, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our failure to renew, register or otherwise protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and our ability to use those names in certain geographical areas. We believe our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property are critical to our success. We rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to protect our proprietary rights. We also depend on trade secret protection through confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, subsidiaries, licensees, licensors and others. We may not have agreements containing adequate protective provisions in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. The unauthorized reproduction or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could diminish the value of our brand, competitive advantages or goodwill and result in decreased revenues. Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, intellectual property laws afford us only limited protection. A third party could copy or otherwise obtain information from us without authorization. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or to deter others from developing similar products or services. Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type has resulted in and could result in further substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may have disputes with, or be sued by, third parties for infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could have a negative impact on our business. Other parties have asserted in the past, and may assert in the future, trademark, patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We cannot assure you that others will not seek to block the use of or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of our brand names or other intellectual property or the sale of our products or services as a violation of their trademark, patent or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of intellectual property in the U.S. or foreign countries for similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights of which we are not aware. In all such countries it may be possible for any third party owner of a national trademark registration or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Securing registrations does not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various grounds. If we are unable to renew or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate any of the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. We lease all of our store locations. The majority of our store leases contain provisions for base rent plus percentage rent based on sales in excess of an agreed upon minimum annual sales level. A number of our leases include a termination provision which applies if we do not meet certain sales levels during a specified period, typically in the third to fourth year of the lease. In addition, most of our leases will expire within the next ten years and generally do not contain options to renew. Furthermore, some of these leases contain various restrictions relating to change of control of our company. Our leases also subject us to risks relating to compliance with changing mall rules and the exercise of discretion by our landlords on various matters within the malls. In addition, the lease for our store in the Downtown Disney® District at the Disneyland® Resort in Anaheim, California provides that the landlord may terminate the lease at any time, subject to the payment of an early termination fee. As a result, we cannot assure you that the landlord will not exercise its right to terminate this lease. We have entered into various transactions with certain related parties which may not reflect arms-length terms. We have entered into various transactions with parties that have or had relationships with us, including, but not limited to, employment with us, familial relationships with our employees or beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of certain classes of our outstanding capital stock. These transactions relate to, among other things, the purchase of furniture and fixtures for new stores, leases, real estate management, construction and Table of Contents related services, and design services. We cannot assure you that all such transactions were on terms that are at least as beneficial to us as the terms we could have obtained in a similar transaction with an unrelated third party. We depend heavily on our communications and information systems, which are vulnerable to systems failures. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our systems, including those associated with new systems implementations or system upgrades, could significantly harm our business, including our sales, distribution, purchasing, inventory control, merchandising and financial controls. We cannot assure you that we will not suffer any of these systems failures or interruptions from power or telecommunication failures, natural disasters or otherwise, or that our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. Terrorism and the uncertainty of future terrorist attacks or war could reduce consumer confidence and mall traffic which could adversely affect our operating results. Terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our facilities, information systems, vendors, employees and guests, which could significantly harm our revenues and results of operations. In the future, fears of war or additional acts of terrorism, including alerts specifically listing malls as potential terrorist targets, may have a negative effect on mall traffic, consumer confidence or consumer discretionary spending patterns, as well as have an adverse effect on the economy in general. This impact may be particularly harmful to our business because we rely heavily on mall traffic, discretionary consumer spending and consumer confidence levels. We are subject to potential challenges relating to overtime pay and other regulations that impact our employees, which could adversely affect our business. Various labor laws, including federal, state and Canadian laws, govern our relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. These laws include minimum wage requirements, overtime pay, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and sales taxes. A determination that we do not comply with these laws could harm our profitability or business reputation. In particular, as a retailer, we may be subject to challenges regarding the application of overtime and related pay regulations to our employees which could result in additional expense and liability. Additional government-imposed increases in minimum wages, overtime pay, paid leaves of absence or mandated health benefits could also materially adversely affect us. We may suffer negative publicity or be sued if the manufacturers of our merchandise violate labor laws or engage in practices that our guests believe are unethical, or if our products are recalled or cause injuries. We rely on our sourcing personnel to select manufacturers with legal and ethical labor practices, but we cannot control the business and labor practices of our manufacturers. If one of these manufacturers violates labor laws or other applicable regulations or is accused of violating these laws and regulations, or if such a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that diverge from those typically acceptable in the United States, we could in turn experience negative publicity or be sued. Many of our products are used by small children and infants who may be injured from usage. We may decide or be required to recall products or be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from injuries. For example, in January 2003 we voluntarily recalled a product due to a possible safety issue, for which a vendor reimbursed us for certain related expenses. Negative publicity in the event of any recall or if any children are injured from our products could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products and our business, and related recalls or lawsuits with respect to such injuries could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Table of Contents Although we currently have liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it would cover product recalls and we face the risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future. We are required to evaluate our internal control under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with the annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. Public Company Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 2 provides the professional standards and related performance guidance for auditors to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. Each year we must perform the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, which is both costly and challenging. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We determined that, as of January 1, 2005, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as there was a material weakness in our controls over the selection, monitoring and review of assumptions and factors affecting lease accounting practices due to an error in our interpretation of U.S. generally accepted accounting practices. See Item 9A of this annual report on Form 10-K. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or if our auditors are not able to complete the procedures required by Auditing Standard No. 2 to support their attestation report, we would likely lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. Portions of our business are subject to privacy and security risks. If we improperly obtain, or are unable to protect, information from our guests, we could be subject to liability and damage to our reputation. In addition to serving as an online sales portal, our website, www.buildabear.com, features children’s games, e-cards and printable party invitations and thank-you notes, and provides an opportunity for children under the age of 13 to sign up, with the consent of their parent or guardian, to receive our online newsletter. We currently obtain and retain personal information about our website users. In addition, we obtain personal information about our guests as part of their registration in our Find-A-Bear identification system. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted or may enact laws or regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information, with particular emphasis on the collection of information regarding minors. Such regulations include or may include requirements that companies establish procedures to: • give adequate notice regarding information collection and disclosure practices; • allow consumers to have personal information deleted from a company’s database; • provide consumers with access to their personal information and the ability to rectify inaccurate information; Table of Contents • obtain express parental consent prior to collecting and using personal information from children; and • comply with the Federal Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. Such regulation may also include enforcement and redress provisions. While we have implemented programs and procedures designed to protect the privacy of people, including children, from whom we collect information, and our website is designed to be fully compliant with the Federal Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, there can be no assurance that such programs will conform to all applicable laws or regulations. We have a stringent privacy policy covering the information we collect from our guests and have established security features to protect our guest database and website. However, our security measures may not prevent security breaches. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If third persons were able to penetrate our network security and gain access to, or otherwise misappropriate, our guests’ personal information, it could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business and we could be subject to liability. Such liability could include claims for misuse of personal information or unauthorized use of credit cards. These claims could result in litigation, our involvement in which, regardless of the outcome, could require us to expend significant financial resources. In addition, because our guest database primarily includes personal information of young children and young children frequently interact with our website, we are potentially vulnerable to charges from parents, children’s organizations, governmental entities, and the media of engaging in inappropriate collection of data from children. Such charges could adversely impact guest relationships and ultimately cause a decrease in net sales and also expose us to litigation and possible liability. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected by market volatility which could result in costly and time-consuming securities litigation. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated variations in comparable store sales or operating results; • changes in financial estimates by research analysts; • actual or anticipated changes in economic, political or market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; • changes in the retailing environment; • changes in the market valuations of other specialty retail companies; and • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. In addition, we cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will continue which could affect our stock price and the liquidity of any investment in our common stock. The stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Table of Contents A large percentage of our voting stock is held by a relatively small number of people, which allows them to control substantially all matters requiring stockholder approval. As of January 1, 2005, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates owned 51.8% of our outstanding common stock. If these stockholders act together, they would be able to elect our board of directors and control all other matters requiring approval by stockholders, including the approval of mergers, going private transactions and other extraordinary transactions, as well as the terms of any of these transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could in turn have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their shares of common stock. The public sale of our common stock by existing stockholders could adversely affect the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders in the future or the perception that these sales will occur. These sales also might make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may prevent or frustrate attempts to replace or remove our current management by our stockholders, even if such replacement or removal may be in our stockholders’ best interests. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions: • restrict various types of business combinations with significant stockholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • limit the right of stockholders to remove directors or change the size of the board of directors; • limit the right of stockholders to fill vacancies on the board of directors; • limit the right of stockholders to act by written consent and to call a special meeting of stockholders or propose other actions; • require a higher percentage of stockholders than would otherwise be required to amend, alter, change or repeal our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • authorize the issuance of preferred stock with any voting rights, dividend rights, conversion privileges, redemption rights and liquidation rights and other rights, preferences, privileges, powers, qualifications, limitations or restrictions as may be specified by our board of directors. These provisions may: • discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management, even if such change may be in the best interests of our stockholders; • adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and • limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends, and accordingly stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We paid a special $10.0 million cash dividend to our stockholders in August 2004. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. Table of Contents As a result, only appreciation of the price of the common stock will provide a return to investors in this offering. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest in our common stock. 