D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition in all our businesses from other telecommunications service providers, including China Mobile Limited and its affiliates, or China Mobile and China Telecom Corporation Limited and its affiliates, or China Telecom. Such competition may intensify and result in slower subscriber growth, lower tariffs and higher customer acquisition costs for us, which would materially -4- Table of Contents adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The telecommunications industry in China has been rapidly evolving. The PRC Government has implemented a number of measures to restructure, and to encourage fair and orderly competition in, the telecommunications industry. For example, in May 2008, in order to optimize the allocation of telecommunications resources in China and improve the competitive landscape, the PRC Government encouraged a wide-ranging telecommunications industry restructuring, following which we, along with China Mobile and China Telecom, have become full-service telecommunications service providers that operate both fixed-line and mobile telecommunications networks in China. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Restructurings of Telecommunications Industry” under Item 4. We face intense competition in each of our business lines from China Mobile and China Telecom and expect that this competition will further intensify and may also include other telecommunications service providers in the future. As a result of China’s accession into the World Trade Organization, or the WTO, which requires China’s gradual reduction of foreign ownership restrictions in the telecommunications industry and the gradual opening of the telecommunications market in China to foreign operators, we also expect to face competition from foreign-invested telecommunications service providers. As a consequence of operating in an increasingly competitive market, we have experienced and may continue to experience pressure on our results of operations for some or all of our telecommunications services. Competition in Mobile Business. China Mobile is the largest mobile operator in China and has competitive advantages over us in areas such as customer base, financial resources and brand recognition. We have been experiencing intense competition from China Mobile in our mobile service areas and this competition may continue to intensify. In addition, as part of the restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry in 2008, we and our parent company, Unicom Group, sold the CDMA business and network, respectively, to China Telecom in October 2008. As a result, China Telecom has become the only operator offering CDMA services in China and a new competitor in the area of mobile telecommunications. In addition, China Telecom has taken over all of our previous CDMA subscribers along with the CDMA business, which has resulted in greater competitive pressure on us. Competition in the mobile business has resulted in significant decreases in our various effective tariffs and this trend may further intensify. Continued price competition among China Mobile, China Telecom, possible new telecommunications operators and us may accelerate the decline of the average revenue per user per month, or ARPU, of our mobile services, and adversely affect our profitability. In addition, competition may also result in a higher churn rate of our mobile customers and may cause a significant increase in our costs for retaining existing customers and attracting new customers of our mobile services. Moreover, in January 2009, China Mobile, China Telecom and Unicom Group were granted licenses by the MIIT to operate 3G businesses nationwide in China with TD-SCDMA, CDMA2000 and WCDMA technologies, respectively. China Mobile and China Telecom have launched their 3G businesses in China and we have launched our 3G business on a trial basis. We expect that 3G will be one of the main focuses of business development for the three telecommunications operators in China and that our 3G business will face intense competition from China Mobile and China Telecom in the future. Because the TD-SCDMA technology that China Mobile uses to operate its 3G business is China’s homegrown technology and one of the three current major international 3G standards, the PRC Government has expressed its strong support for the TD-SCDMA industry and has announced numerous policies to promote its development in China. Moreover, due to the technical features of the CDMA network, China Telecom, unlike other Chinese telecommunications operators, was able to upgrade its CDMA network easily and quickly to the CDMA2000 3G network, which allowed China Telecom to launch its 3G business earlier than us. All of these factors may harm our 3G competitive position. The WCDMA technology that we use to operate our 3G business is a relatively mature technology which has been widely adopted and deployed around the world. Our 3G operations based on the WCDMA technology have also benefited from a well-developed WCDMA industry chain with diverse and ample supplies of WCDMA network equipment and facilities as well as handsets and applications. While we have been endeavoring to capitalize these advantages of the WCDMA technology and allocating significant resources to develop our networks, service products and customer service for our 3G business, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete in the emerging 3G service market in China. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected. Competition in Fixed-Line Business. As a part of the PRC telecommunications industry restructuring in 2008, the former China Netcom, which was a major fixed-line service provider in China prior to the restructuring, merged with us and became our wholly-owned subsidiary in October 2008. China Network Communications Group -5- Table of Contents Corporation, or Netcom Group, China Netcom’s parent company, and China Netcom (Group) Company Limited, or CNC China, China Netcom’s wholly-owned subsidiary, also merged with, and were absorbed by, Unicom Group and China United Network Communications Corporation Limited (formerly known as China Unicom Corporation Limited), or CUCL, our principal operating subsidiary, respectively, in January 2009. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Sale of CDMA Business, Merger with China Netcom and Related Transactions — Merger with China Netcom and Related Transactions” under Item 4. Moreover, in order to become a nationwide full-service telecommunications operator in all of our business lines, we, through CUCL, purchased the telecommunications business across 21 provinces in southern China held by Unicom Group and Netcom Group. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Recent Developments” under Item 4. As a result, we are now offering fixed-line services, including fixed-line voice and value-added, fixed-line broadband, data communication and other services, nationwide in China. Our major competitors in various fixed-line service markets include China Telecom, a major fixed-line service provider in China with a leading position in the south, and China Mobile, which began offering fixed-line services after its acquisition of China TieTong Telecommunications Corporation, a relatively smaller operator in the fixed-line service market. Geographically, we are a leading fixed-line service provider in our fixed-line northern service region, but a relatively new entrant in 21 provinces in southern China. In our fixed-line northern service region, we face increasing competition from China Telecom and China Mobile as they continue to develop their fixed-line networks and boost their sales efforts in the region. In 21 provinces in southern China, we are selectively developing networks and increasing sales as our strategy, but we cannot assure you that this strategy will enable us to compete successfully against our competitors in the fixed-line market in this region. Moreover, other than China Telecom and China Mobile, we also face increasing competition from other competitors in a number of areas of fixed-line business. For example, in the long distance area, we have been experiencing competitive pressure from Internet phone service providers, such as Skype. This competition may become more intense if current restrictions on the provision of these services are liberalized. In the fixed-line broadband area, cable television companies, such as Beijing Gehua CATV Netcom Co., Ltd., and other emerging fixed-line broadband companies, such as Great Wall Broadband Network Service Co., Ltd., have imposed significant competition pressure on us in pricing, network coverage and quality, end-to-end connectivity and customer service. In addition, we expect that the convergence of telecommunications, Internet and cable television networks will be the trend for the future development of the telecommunications industry in China. Changes of regulatory policies under this trend may enable additional non-telecommunications operators to compete with us in our telecommunications businesses, in particular in our fixed-line business. Increased competition from China Telecom, China Mobile and other competitors in the fixed-line service market may force us to lower our tariffs and may reduce the size of our customer base and the usage of our fixed-line networks, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Furthermore, the MIIT’s newly issued the Measures on the Administration of Telecommunications Business Licenses, which became effective on April 10, 2009, among other things, lowered the minimum amount of registered capital required for an applicant to enter the basic telecommunications business in the PRC. We expect this change to lower the entry barriers to the telecommunications industry and further intensify competition in the relevant service areas. Intensive competition from China Mobile and China Telecom, as well as other telecommunications service providers, could lead to slower subscriber growth, lower traffic volume of our telecommunications services, continued price pressure and higher customer acquisition costs, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We may further lose fixed-line and mobile subscribers and our doubtful debt ratios may increase, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. We continue to lose fixed-line subscribers due to the trend of mobile service substitution for fixed-line services. Consistent with trends in global markets in recent years, significant traffic from our fixed-line networks has been diverted to mobile networks, including mobile networks of other mobile operators. In 2007 and 2008, mobile substitution accelerated as a result of stronger pricing pressure from mobile operators, which increasingly reduced tariffs through various discount programs. For example, the usage volume of local calls in our fixed-line northern service region decreased by 7.2% from 202.5 billion pulses in 2007 to 187.8 billion pulses in 2008, mainly due to migration of local voice traffic to mobile services. The number of our fixed-line subscribers also decreased by 9.6% from 110.82 million at the end of 2007 to 100.15 million at the end of 2008. While we started providing a full range of telecommunications services after the telecommunications industry restructuring in 2008 and have been taking -6- Table of Contents various measures to retain our fixed-line subscribers, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in mitigating the adverse impact of mobile service substitution for fixed-line telephone services. Migration from fixed-line services to mobile services may further intensify in the future, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects of our fixed-line voice services. In addition, as the 3G industry continues to develop in China, we expect that wireless Internet access will become another main form of broadband access in the future, which may result in decreased use of fixed-line broadband access, thereby resulting in loss of our fixed-line broadband subscribers. With respect to our GSM mobile services, we also experienced an increased loss of some existing mobile subscribers, although this loss was substantially exceeded by an increase in new mobile subscribers in 2008. Our loss of existing mobile subscribers is reflected in the increased churn rates of our mobile services in 2008. The monthly average churn rate of our GSM mobile services increased from 2.76% in 2007 to 3.08% in 2008, primarily due to further intensified competition from other service providers, a large proportion of our new subscribers being low-end subscribers and the effects of the global financial crisis. Increased churn rates of our GSM services may adversely affect our market share and increase our costs of additional customer acquisitions and bad debts, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, due to an increased loss of customers and the effects of the global financial crisis, our doubtful debt ratio, calculated as the amount of doubtful debt provided during a year divided by revenue in that year, also increased in 2008. Our doubtful debt ratio related to our GSM services was at 2.1% in 2008, compared to 2.0% in 2007. Our doubtful debt ratio related to our fixed-line services was at 1.8% in 2008, compared to 1.1% in 2007. If these ratios increase in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Competition from foreign-invested operators and other new entrants may further increase the competition for employees, exacerbate price competition and increase our operating expenses, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. As a result of China’s accession to the WTO in December 2001 and the adoption of the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises in January 2002, which implement China’s commitments to the WTO, the PRC Government has agreed to gradually liberalize the various segments and regions of the telecommunications market in China to foreign investors. Currently, foreign investors are permitted to own up to 49% of joint ventures that offer basic telecommunications services without any geographic restrictions in China and 50% of joint ventures that offer value-added telecommunications services without any geographic restrictions in China. More foreign-invested operators may enter China’s telecommunications market as a result of this liberalization. They may have greater financial, managerial and technical resources and more expertise in network management and sales and marketing than we do. Increased competition from these and other new entrants into the Chinese telecommunications market may further increase the competition for skilled and experienced employees, exacerbate price competition and increase our customer acquisition costs and other operating expenses, and thereby adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Various difficulties involved and extensive efforts required in the ongoing integration process following our merger with China Netcom may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Following our merger with China Netcom, we have been integrating the operations of the two companies. Our management has been making extensive efforts in the integration process, in particular the integration of the existing businesses, development strategies, management and personnel, subsidiaries and branches, accounting policies and procedures, internal control systems and information systems of the two companies. As the integration is ongoing, and due to various potential difficulties in managing a much larger business, our management expects that further efforts will be required in the continuing integration process, which may result in a significant diversion of our management’s attention from the operation of our businesses and may significantly restrain our management’s resources, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, an important aspect of the integration is the integration of personnel. We believe that we have maintained good labor -7- Table of Contents relations and have not experienced any significant loss of our employees since our merger with China Netcom. However, as the integration process deepens, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain existing labor relations or that we will not suffer from employee attrition, and our financial condition, operation of businesses and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected as a result. We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated synergies of our merger with China Netcom as well as our acquisition of the fixed-line business in 21 provinces in southern China due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and our future financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected. We believe that our merger with China Netcom represents an important transaction for us, consistent with the industry trend of convergence between fixed-line and mobile businesses within China. It allows us to benefit from increased economies of scale, reinforce our market position, improve our overall competitiveness and lay the foundation for sustainable long-term growth. We anticipate that through effective integration, synergies would occur in six key areas, including through: (i) a clear strategic positioning of our enlarged group; (ii) an improvement of the market position of our enlarged group; (iii) a combination of resources and strengths to achieve economies of scale and larger scope; (iv) technological and product innovation to address changing market trends; (v) enhanced human capital and organizational structure; and (vi) a more optimal capital structure and enhanced financial capabilities. Nevertheless, the scale, scope and nature of the integration and customer retention efforts required in connection with the merger present significant challenges. Although we have completed integration in a number of areas on a preliminary basis, we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully integrate our businesses on the expected timeline and fully realize the anticipated synergies as a result of numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things: • difficulties in integrating the operations of the two companies, including unifying their operating and accounting policies and procedures as well as their information systems, streamlining overlapping operations, consolidating subsidiaries and branch networks, and allocating human resources; • unforeseen contingent risks or latent liabilities relating to the merger that may not become apparent until in the future; • loss of personnel, including key management members; • increase in competition in the PRC telecommunications industry resulting from the recent restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry, which, among other things, may require us to increase our marketing efforts; • the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses; and • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with customers. Any of the above could adversely impact the full realization of our anticipated synergies from the merger with China Netcom and could materially adversely affect our future business performance, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, following the completion of our acquisition of the fixed-line business in 21 provinces in southern China, we have been integrating our existing business with the fixed-line operations in those 21 provinces in southern China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement the integration process smoothly or that this acquisition will meet our expectation to optimize our business and resources and enhance our overall competitive position. -8- Table of Contents Failure to respond to technological and industry developments in a timely and effective manner or failure to continually optimize, expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure could materially adversely affect our competitive position and hinder our growth. The telecommunications industry in China and elsewhere in the world has been experiencing rapid and significant changes in the diversity and sophistication of the technologies and services offered. Such changes may render our existing services or technologies inadequate or obsolete. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly upgrade our telecommunications technologies and services to respond to such changes in order to maintain our competitiveness, which involves substantial time, costs and risk. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond to technological and industry developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all. Our inability to respond successfully to technological or industry developments may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Furthermore, if the new technologies adopted by us do not perform as expected, or if we are unable to effectively deliver new services based on these technologies in a commercially viable manner, our revenue growth may decline and our competitive position may be adversely affected. In addition, the growth of our business, particularly the mobile business, depends on whether we are able to continue to optimize the capacity, expand the coverage and improve the quality of, and upgrade our existing networks and infrastructure in a timely and effective manner. Our failure to do so could result in loss of our customers and thus materially adversely affect our competitive position and hinder our growth. Our ability to expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to achieve the following on a timely basis and on acceptable terms: • manage technology migration in an effective manner; • obtain adequate financing; • obtain relevant government licenses, permits and approvals; • obtain adequate network equipment and software; • retain experienced management and technical personnel; • obtain sufficient spectrum frequencies, network numbers and other telecommunications resources controlled by the PRC Government; • gain access to the sites for network construction or upgrade; and • enter into interconnection and other arrangements with other operators. If we are not able to timely and effectively overcome the uncertainties and difficulties we may encounter in expanding and upgrading our networks and infrastructure, our competitive position, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected. The successful development and introduction of our 3G network and services is subject to market demand, consumer acceptance, technological challenges, other uncertainties, expected benefits from investments in our 3G networks and technology may not be realized and our GSM mobile business may be adversely affected due to the competitive nature between 3G services and 2G services in the industry. In January 2009, Unicom Group was granted a license by the MIIT to operate a 3G business nationwide in China with WCDMA technology and, with the approval of the MIIT, has authorized CUCL, our wholly-owned subsidiary, to operate this 3G business. Our planned capital expenditure in 2009 for the development of our 3G business is estimated to be approximately RMB38.7 billion. We currently expect to provide 3G services in 284 cities in China by the end of 2009. As is common with undertakings of this scale and complexity, we may experience various difficulties in the development of our 3G business, including software, network, handset and other technical -9- Table of Contents issues. While we generally believe we are capable of solving these issues, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion or that we will not encounter other difficulties. Moreover, we cannot assure you that: • we will be able to gain access to sufficient sites for 3G network construction; • there will be sufficient demand for 3G services for us to deliver these services profitably; • the commercial launch of our 3G services will proceed according to anticipated schedules; • our 3G network and services will deliver the quality and levels of services as expected; • we will be able to provide all planned 3G services or that we will be able to provide such services on schedule, or that developing and providing such services will not be more costly than expected; • our 3G services will be more popular among potential subscribers than those of our competitors; • we will not encounter unexpected technological difficulties in implementing the WCDMA technology; or • our 3G services will generate an acceptable or commercially viable rate of return. Any failure or delay in the completion of networks and the launch of our 3G services, increases in the associated costs, or problems encountered in our operations of 3G business could hinder the recovery of our significant capital investment in the 3G business, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. In addition, we expect that 3G services will compete with 2G services as an industry trend in the future. Therefore, while we are promoting our 3G business, we cannot assure you that our GSM business will not be adversely affected by the industry-wide competition between 3G and 2G businesses. Because we rely on arrangements with other telecommunications operators, changes to the terms or availability of these arrangements may result in disruptions to our services and operations and may result in customer dissatisfaction and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our ability to provide telecommunications services depends upon arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, interconnection is necessary to complete all calls between our subscribers and subscribers of other telecommunications operators. We, either through ourselves or through Unicom Group, have established interconnection and transmission line leasing arrangements with other telecommunication operators, including our parent company, as required to conduct our current business. Any disruption to our interconnection with the networks of those operators or other international telecommunications carriers with which we interconnect may affect our operations, service quality and customer satisfaction, thus adversely affecting our business. Furthermore, we are generally not entitled to collect indirect or consequential damages resulting from disruptions in the networks with which we are interconnected. Any disruption in existing interconnection arrangements and leased line arrangements or any significant change of their terms, as a result of natural events or accidents or for regulatory, technical, competitive or other reasons, may lead to temporary service interruptions and increased costs that can seriously jeopardize our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Difficulties in executing alternative arrangements with other operators on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, including the inability to promptly establish additional interconnection links or increase interconnection bandwidths as required, could also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. -10- Table of Contents Interruptions to our networks and operating systems or to those with which we interconnect, including those caused by natural disasters and service maintenance and upgrades, may disrupt our services and operations and may result in customer dissatisfaction and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our network infrastructure and the networks with which we interconnect are vulnerable to potential damages or interruptions from floods, wind, storms, fires, power loss, severed cables, acts of terrorism and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities or any other failure of our networks or systems, or the networks to which we are interconnected, may result in consequential interruptions in services across our telecommunications infrastructure. For example, in January and February of 2008, certain areas of China experienced what was reportedly the most severe winter weather in the country in half a century. Our base stations in the affected areas suffered from power failures and our network equipment sustained other damage due to this severe winter weather. In addition, in May 2008, an earthquake registering 8.0 on the Richter scale struck Sichuan Province and its neighboring areas in China. Our network equipment, including our base stations, in the affected areas sustained extensive damage, leading to service stoppage and other disruptions in our operations in those areas. Any future natural disasters may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our services and operations. Moreover, our networks and systems and the networks with which we interconnect also require regular maintenance and upgrades. Such maintenance and upgrades may cause service disruptions. Network or system failures, as well as high traffic volumes, may also affect the quality of our services and cause temporary service interruptions. Any such future occurrence may result in customer dissatisfaction and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If we fail to achieve a smooth discontinuation of PHS services or retain our PHS subscribers to use our other telecommunications services, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Upon the completion of our merger with China Netcom, we took over China Netcom’s PHS services, which we did not operate before the merger. PHS is a telecommunications technology that allows an operator to offer wireless local access services with mobility within an area with the same area code. PHS business historically contributed substantially to our revenues and customer base, but has experienced dramatic declines in recent years since its tariff advantage has been diminishing as a result of intense competition in the mobile service market in China. As of December 31, 2008, we had a total of 21.85 million PHS subscribers. Further, in January 2009, the MIIT announced its decision to reallocate the radio spectrum on which we currently provide our PHS services to the TD-SCDMA technology which China Mobile uses to provide its 3G services. The MIIT requested that current wireless access systems operating on 1900-1920 MHz spectrum be cleared and removed by the end of 2011. We expect that we will experience a significant decline in revenue and profitability for our PHS business in 2009 and onwards. Our PHS business would deteriorate significantly and discontinuing the PHS services may result in a substantial loss of our investment in this area. As a result, we recognized an impairment loss on the PHS-related assets of approximately RMB11.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, leaving the carrying value of PHS-related assets of approximately RMB1.52 billion as of December 31, 2008. We intend to utilize our full-service operations platform to provide substitute telecommunications services to our existing PHS users. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve a smooth discontinuation of PHS services or effectively retain our PHS subscribers to use our other telecommunications services. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditure and debt service requirements, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects will be materially adversely affected. We continue to have a significant level of capital expenditure and debt service requirements necessary to implement our business strategies. We plan to spend approximately RMB110.0 billion for capital expenditure in 2009, an increase of RMB39.5 billion from 2008. To the extent these capital expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Although currently we have a relatively low leverage in our capital structure (14.5% debt-to-equity ratio and 12.7% debt-to-capitalization ratio as of December 31, 2008), we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain future financing on a timely basis and/or on acceptable terms, given the current conditions in the global financing markets, especially those outside the PRC, as a result of the current financial crisis. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 5. Our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including, among others: • our financial condition and results of operations; -11- Table of Contents • our creditworthiness and relationship with lenders; • the condition of the economy and the telecommunications industry in China; • conditions in relevant financial markets in China and elsewhere in the world; and • our ability to obtain any required government approvals for our financings. We may experience further declines in ARPU for our telecommunications services. We have been experiencing declining ARPU for our mobile business and fixed-lined business in recent years, mainly due to (i) our decreasing effective tariffs, which mainly resulted from pricing competition with other telecommunications operators in China and downward adjustments on tariffs by the PRC Government (which may continue in the future); and (ii) the fact that a significant portion of our incremental market consists of users from rural areas in China, many of whom tend to have less usage of telecommunications services (mobile services, in particular) and are more cost-sensitive than users from urban areas. In addition, the spread of the global financial crisis has negatively affected the Chinese economy. Despite the PRC Government’s efforts in stimulating the economy, we cannot assure you that our businesses will not be significantly negatively impacted by current economic conditions. As a result of the above, our ARPU may continue to decline in the foreseeable future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have been making efforts to mitigate those effects by allocating more resources to diversify our service offerings, particularly the value-added services, to encourage more usage of our services and developing our high-end customers, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be able to achieve the anticipated results. If the economy of China deteriorates under the current global financial crisis, our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be materially adversely affected. The current global financial crisis has swept the global economy and affected a number of countries, including China, to different extents. In response to this global financial crisis, the PRC Government has adopted a series of measures to stimulate the economy, including making significant investments in domestic infrastructure construction. While such measures may help create a positive policy environment for the economy in China, in the event that the economy growth of China significantly declines in the future, our subscribers’ usage of our services may decrease, our loss of subscribers may accelerate and we may experience increased difficulties in acquiring new subscribers. Futhermore, although the financial crisis has affected the financial industry in China to a lesser extent than that in certain other countries, if the Chinese financial industry becomes further adversely affected, our ability to obtain financing may be significantly constrained. All of these factors may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our controlling shareholder, Unicom Group, can exert influence on us and cause us to make decisions that may not always be in the best interests of us or our other shareholders and may fail to provide services and facilities that we rely on to operate our business. Unicom Group indirectly controlled an aggregate of 70.40% of our issued share capital as of May 31, 2009 and all of our executive directors also serve as directors or executive officers of Unicom Group. As our controlling shareholder, subject to our articles of association and applicable laws and regulations, Unicom Group is effectively able to control our management, policies and business by controlling the composition of our board of directors and, in turn, indirectly controlling the selection of our senior management, determining the timing and amount of our dividend payments, approving significant corporate transactions, including mergers and acquisitions, and approving our annual budgets. The interests of Unicom Group as our controlling shareholder may conflict with our interests or the interests of our other shareholders. As a result, Unicom Group may cause us to enter into transactions or take (or fail to take) other actions or make decisions that may not be in our or our other shareholders’ best interests. In addition, our operations depend on a number of services and facilities provided by Unicom Group. For example, following our acquisition of the fixed-line business in 21 provinces in southern China in January 2009, we began leasing fixed-line networks from Unicom Group for our fixed-line business operations in those provinces. Unicom Group also provides us with international gateway services, interconnection services, sales agency and collection services and provision of premises. See “B. Related Party Transactions” under Item 7 and “A. History and Development of Our Company — Recent Developments” under Item 4. The interests of Unicom Group as provider of these services and facilities may conflict with our interests. Failure by Unicom Group to fulfill its obligations under any of these arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. We currently have limited alternative sources of supply for these services and facilities and, as a result, may have limited ability to negotiate with Unicom Group regarding the terms for providing these services and facilities. Changes in the availability, pricing or quality of these services or facilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. -12- Table of Contents The previous internal reorganization of Unicom Group for the A Share offering created a two-step voting mechanism that requires the approval of the minority shareholders of both our Company and China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited, or the A Share Company, for significant related party transactions between us and Unicom Group. In October 2002, Unicom Group completed an internal reorganization of its shareholding in our company and the initial public offering in China of its then newly established subsidiary, the A Share Company. As part of this restructuring, a portion of Unicom Group’s indirect shareholding in our company was transferred to the A Share Company, whose business is limited to indirectly holding the equity interest of our company without any other direct business operations. A voting mechanism was established to allow public shareholders of the A Share Company to indirectly participate in our shareholders’ meetings and a two-step voting mechanism was established for the approval of related party transactions. As a result, any significant related party transaction between us or our subsidiaries and Unicom Group or its other subsidiaries will require the separate approval of the independent minority shareholders of both our company and the A Share Company. Related party transactions approved by our independent minority shareholders nevertheless cannot proceed if they are not approved by the independent minority shareholders of the A Share Company. This adds another necessary step of approval process for those transactions. See “A. History and Development of the Company — Two-Step Voting Arrangements” under Item 4. Investor confidence and the market prices of our shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely impacted if we are or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we include in this annual report a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2008, our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 was effective. PricewaterhouseCoopers, an independent registered public accounting firm, expressed unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. However, we cannot assure you that, in the future, our management will continue to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for future periods, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, reviewed or evaluated, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the relevant requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes in the future could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could materially adversely affect the market prices of our shares and ADSs. Moreover, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal control over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including through a failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the market prices of our shares and ADSs. The PRC National Audit Office and other governmental or third parties may audit or investigate our ultimate controlling shareholder and us from time to time. The outcome of these governmental or third-party investigations may materially adversely affect our corporate image, the reputation and credibility of our management, our business and financial condition and the prices of our shares and ADSs. The PRC National Audit Office, or the NAO, from time to time performs audits on state-owned companies, such as Unicom Group, our ultimate controlling shareholder. If, as a result of an NAO audit, material irregularities are found within Unicom Group or if Unicom Group becomes the target of any negative publicity, there could be a material adverse effect on our corporate image, the reputation and credibility of our management, our business and financial condition and the market prices of our shares and ADSs. In addition, we may be the subject of other -13- Table of Contents governmental or third-party investigations or similar events that, depending on their outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and the market prices of our shares and ADSs. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in China Extensive government regulation of the telecommunications industry in China may restrict our ability to respond to market conditions or competition, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. As a telecommunications operator in China, we are subject to extensive regulation by and under the supervision of, the MIIT, which is the primary regulator of the telecommunications industry in China. The MIIT is responsible for formulating policies and regulations for the telecommunications industry, granting telecommunications licenses, allocating frequency spectrum and numbers, formulating interconnection and settlement arrangements between telecommunications operators, and enforcing industry regulations. Other PRC Governmental authorities also regulate tariff policies, capital investment and foreign investment in the telecommunications industry. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters” under Item 4. The regulatory framework within which we operate may constrain our ability to implement our business strategies and limit our ability to respond to market conditions or to changes in our cost structure. Moreover, we operate our businesses pursuant to approvals granted by the State Council of the PRC, or the State Council, and under licenses granted by the MIIT. If these approvals or licenses were revoked or suspended, our business and operations would be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are subject to various regulatory requirements as to service quality, pricing and other actions, and failure to comply with such requirements may subject us to mandatory penalties or other punitive measures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Regulatory or policy changes relating to the PRC telecommunications industry or any future industry restructuring may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC Government continues to regulate many aspects of the telecommunications industry in China. Potential changes in regulations and policies and their implementation could lead to significant changes in the overall industry environment and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. As part of the comprehensive plan to restructure the telecommunications industry in China, as approved by the State Council in 2001, the PRC Government stated its intention to further adjust and improve its regulatory oversight of the telecommunications industry, including gradual further deregulation of telecommunications tariffs. The MIIT, under the direction of the State Council, is currently preparing a telecommunications law to provide a uniform regulatory framework for the telecommunications industry in China. The proposed nature and scope of the telecommunications law have not yet been announced by the PRC Government. The telecommunications law and other new telecommunications regulations or rules, or future changes thereto, such as enforcement of existing regulations and policies, may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Issues may also arise regarding the interpretation and enforcement of China’s WTO commitments regarding telecommunications services. Any future regulatory changes, such as those relating to the issuance of additional telecommunications licenses, tariff setting, interconnection and settlement arrangements, changes in technical and service standards, universal service obligations and spectrum and number allocations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The PRC telecommunications industry has been extensively restructured in recent years and may be subject to further restructuring. Such further industry restructuring may materially affect the operations of all telecommunications operators in China, including us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope and effect of any further restructuring on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. -14- Table of Contents New regulations, regulatory changes or changes in enforcement policies relating to tariffs and other aspects of telecommunications services may materially adversely affect our competitiveness, business and financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Tariffs are the prices we charge our customers for our telecommunications services. We are subject to extensive government regulations on tariffs, especially those relating to our basic telecommunications services, such as mobile services, local and long distance fixed-line telephone services, managed data services, leased line services and interconnection agreements. We have experienced significant downward adjustments on tariffs of telecommunications services in recent years and our revenues have been adversely affected by reductions in tariffs promulgated by the PRC Government, such as the “Calling-Party-Pays” policy the MIIT promoted in the first half of 2007 and the reduction of charges for roaming services mandated by the MIIT and the National Development and Reform Commission of the PRC, or the NDRC, in February 2008. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing, likelihood or magnitude of tariff adjustments by the PRC Government or the extent or potential impact on our business of future tariff adjustments. If the PRC Government substantially lowers the tariffs for our services, our business and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. In particular, monthly fees on fixed-line services have recently drawn attention from customers and the PRC Government. Revenues from some of our customers have decreased as a result of discounts on monthly fees that we offered through bundled service packages. Our revenues will be adversely affected if the PRC Government abolishes such monthly fees. In addition, the PRC Government may initiate new policies or regulations following the industry restructuring in 2008, such as those in connection with adjustments in interconnection settlement arrangement among telecommunications operators and those that allow mobile subscribers to switch to the networks of another telecommunications operator with their existing numbers. The potential new regulatory policies and regulations may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The telecommunications industry in China may not sustain its pace of rapid growth, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The telecommunications industry in China has experienced rapid growth in the last several years, especially in the mobile communications sector. The total number of mobile subscribers in China increased from 43.3 million at the end of 1999 to 678.8 million in April 2009. Mobile service penetration increased from 3.5% to over 50.7% nationwide during the same period. The growth in mobile subscribers has been slowing down as mobile penetration continues to increase in our mobile service areas. In addition, ARPU for the mobile communications market in China continues to decline. For example, ARPU of our GSM mobile subscribers declined from RMB45.7 in 2007 to RMB42.3 in 2008. Any slowdown in the growth in China’s telecommunications industry, in particular, mobile communications sector and fixed-line broadband sector, may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The PRC Government may require us, along with other telecommunications service providers in China, to provide universal services with specified obligations, and we may not be compensated adequately for providing such services. Under the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the State Council, telecommunications service providers in China are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC Government authorities, and the MIIT has the authority to delineate the scope of universal service obligations. The MIIT, together with government finance and pricing authorities, is also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. These rules have not yet been promulgated, and there are currently no specific regulatory requirements relating to the provision of universal services in China. While specific universal services obligations are not yet clear, we believe that such services may include mandatory provision of basic telecommunications services in less economically developed areas in China and mandatory contribution by telecommunication service providers to a universal service fund. In addition, as part of the transitional measures prior to the formalization of a universal service obligation framework, the MIIT has required major telecommunications service providers in China, including Unicom Group, to participate in a project to provide telephone services in thousands of remote villages in China. See “B. Business Overview—Regulatory and Related -15- Table of Contents Matters — Universal Services” under Item 4. We cannot predict whether the PRC Government will specifically require us to undertake universal service obligations in the future. To the extent we are required to do so, it is currently uncertain whether we will be adequately or timely compensated by the PRC Government or by the universal service fund. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize an adequate return on investments for expanding networks to, and providing telecommunications services in, those less economically developed areas due to potentially higher capital expenditure requirements, lower usage by customers and lack of flexibility in setting our tariffs. We also cannot predict whether we will be required to make a contribution to the universal service fund. Any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile devices could impair our ability to retain and attract customers of our mobile services, reduce mobile service usage or result in litigation. Concerns have been expressed in some countries that the electromagnetic signals emitted by wireless telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels, and interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. In addition, mobile operators have been subject to lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of mobile handset usage or proximity to base stations or seeking protective or remedial measures. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with the transmission of electromagnetic signals will not impair our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce mobile service usage or result in litigation. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Our operations may be materially adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the extent of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC Government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by government control over capital investments. If the PRC Government revises the current regulations that allow a foreign-invested enterprise to pay foreign exchange in current account transactions, our operating subsidiary’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. The ability of our major operating subsidiary, CUCL, to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us depends on existing and future foreign exchange regulations in China. The Renminbi is currently convertible by foreign-invested enterprises in China to settle transactions under the current account, which include -16- Table of Contents trade and service related foreign exchange transactions and payments of dividends and interest on foreign loans. The Renminbi currently cannot be freely converted without regulatory approval for transactions under the capital account, which includes outbound foreign investment and principal payments on foreign loans. CUCL, which holds substantially all of our assets and through which we conduct substantially all of our business, is a foreign-invested enterprise in China. This status allows it to purchase foreign exchange at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or the SAFE. However, there is no assurance that in the future the relevant PRC government authorities will not impose any limitation on the ability of foreign-invested enterprises to purchase foreign exchange to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations or to pay dividends. In that event, CUCL’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted and the interests of our shareholders may, in turn, be affected. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi could adversely affect the prices of our shares and ADSs as well as our profitability. Substantially all of our revenues and costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our borrowings, equipment purchases and other capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC Government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to that of the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China. As of December 31, 2008, the Renminbi has appreciated approximately 17.57% in value against the U.S. dollar since July 21, 2005. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. With the increased floating range of the Renminbi’s value against foreign currencies, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the future. Increased fluctuations of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value in foreign currency terms of cash flow generated from our operations or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs, and therefore the price of our shares and ADSs. Any future Renminbi devaluations could also increase our equipment importation costs or lead to significant fluctuations in the exposure of our foreign-currency-denominated liabilities, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us and to foreign investors and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, CUCL, is organized under the laws of PRC and is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC Government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, property, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the relatively limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and/or enforcement of these laws and regulations involves uncertainties, which may limit the remedies available to you as an investor and to us in the event of any claims or disputes with third parties. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Therefore, the PRC legal system may not afford the same legal protection available to investors in the United States or elsewhere. Furthermore, various uncertainties involved in the rulemaking, interpretation and enforcement process of the laws, regulations and rules in China that are related to our business operations, in particular, those in respect of telecommunications and enterprise income tax, may also materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. -17- Table of Contents Since we are a Hong Kong company, you will not have certain investor rights as our shareholder, such as the right to bring legal action against other shareholders on behalf of the company. We were incorporated in Hong Kong. The Hong Kong Companies Ordinance does not provide for any right for our shareholders, including our significant shareholders, to bring legal action against any other shareholder on our behalf to enforce any claim against such party or parties if we fail to enforce such claim ourselves. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. Most of our current operations are conducted in China and most of our assets are located in China. In addition, five out of eleven of our current directors and all of our current executive officers reside within China, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments. Our Hong Kong counsel has also advised us that Hong Kong has no arrangement for the reciprocal enforcement of judgments with the United States. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the United States or any other jurisdiction, including judgments against us or our directors, executive officers, underwriters or experts, may be difficult or impossible. New provisions of the PRC Employment Contract Law may substantially increase our labor-related costs in the future. A new labor contract law in China, which we refer to as the Employment Contract Law, became effective on January 1, 2008. The Employment Contract Law contains a number of provisions that are more favorable to employees than the prior labor laws and regulations in China. For example, an employee may terminate the employment contract without notice if his or her employer fails to pay regulatory social insurance contributions for the employee, or the employer has a workplace policy that violates PRC law and causes harm to the employee. In such case, the employee is entitled to compensation by the employer in an amount equal to his or her average monthly salary for the prior twelve months times the number of years the employee has served the employer. An employer is also obligated to compensate an employee if the employer decides not to renew an existing employment contract, unless the employee refuses the employer’s offer to renew the expiring employment contract with the same or better terms. In addition, an employer is obligated to provide an open-ended employment contract after an employee has completed two consecutive terms of fixed-term employment, under which the employer will be liable to pay damages to an employee if the employer terminates the employment without cause, until the employee reaches an age at which he or she is eligible for pension payment. As a result of the implementation of the new Employment Contract Law, we may have greater difficulty terminating under-performing employees and may incur higher levels of labor costs in order to comply with the provisions of the new law, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Natural disasters and health hazards in China may severely disrupt our business and operations and may severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, we experienced severe sleet and snowstorms in southern China and a devastating earthquake in Sichuan province. Those natural disasters resulted in significant and extensive damage to our base stations and network equipment. Moreover, certain countries and regions, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu, as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, in the past. In April 2009, H1N1/swine flu was discovered in North America and has quickly spread to a number of countries. Although China has not been reported to be widely affected by the H1N1/swine flu as of the date of this annual report on Form 20-F, we cannot predict the effect, if any, that the H1N1/swine flu may have on our business. We are also unable to predict the effect, if any, that any other future natural disasters and health hazards may have on our business. Any future natural disasters and health hazards may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may generally disrupt our operations. Furthermore, natural disasters and health hazards may severely restrict the level of economic activities in affected areas, which may in turn materially adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, any natural disasters or health hazards in China may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. -18- Table of Contents Risk Relating to our ADSs Holders of our ADSs will not have the same voting rights as the holders of our shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise their right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will receive proxy materials with respect to matters to be voted on at a meeting of shareholders through the depositary and may only exercise voting rights by appointing the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. Consequently, if the materials to be forwarded to holders of ADSs by the depositary are delayed or if the depositary sets deadlines by which holders of ADSs must give their instructions regarding how to vote that fall too soon after mailing of the proxy materials, the holders of our ADSs may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote. Thus, it is possible that such holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, may not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. 