Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties described in this 13 Annual Report on Form 10-K, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a recent history of significant operating losses and may not be able to achieve sustained profitability if we are unable to increase revenue from our newer products and services and successfully implement a number of new initiatives, in which case we could experience an adverse change in the market price of our common stock. Over the last few years, the Company has invested heavily in the expansion of existing business lines and the development of new businesses. These investments, combined with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs and rising overhead expense, have driven losses in two of our last three fiscal years. We have incurred net losses of approximately $3.5 million and $30.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $65.4 million. In order to achieve sustained profitability we will need to implement changes to existing business processes, significantly reduce overhead expense and drive profitable revenue growth in our K-12 Services Division. The Company is in the initial stages of a company-wide re-engineering effort to reduce our overhead, continue to improve our internal control management process and upgrade or replace certain critical business systems. If we are unable to achieve these objectives, we may fail to achieve or sustain profitability in subsequent periods, in which case the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. If colleges and universities reduce their reliance on standardized admissions tests or there is a substantial reduction in the emphasis placed by federal and state governments on assessment and remediation in K-12 education, our business will be materially adversely affected. The success of our Test Preparation and K-12 services businesses depends on the continued use of standardized tests. If the use of standardized tests declines or falls out of favor with educational institutions or state and local governments, the markets for many of our products and services will deteriorate and our business will be materially adversely affected. Additionally, the SES market, which is serviced by our Test Preparation Services division, is dependent on the availability of federal funding under NCLB. A substantial reduction in funds available for SES programs under this Act could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our contracts with schools, school districts, municipal agencies and other governmental bodies present several risks, including the nature and timing of revenue recognition which combined with fixed expenses puts a strain on our working capital requirements. As the Company has grown over the last several years, we have begun to enter into more and more large, multiple element contracts with schools, school districts, municipal agencies, and other governmental bodies, requiring us to deliver a combination of products and services, including online and print-based assessment, professional development, and face-to-face instruction. These contracts present several types of risks and uncertainties. The approval processes of some of our customers in this area, which are required for formal contract execution, are lengthy and cumbersome and, in many cases, are not completed prior to the time we begin performance. This means that we, at times, incur substantial costs prior to the formal execution of these agreements by the customer. While to date we have found that, following the award of the contract to us, final approval required for the customer to sign the agreement is usually a formality, our revenue recognition policies preclude us from recognizing revenue from these contracts until there is a final agreement binding on the customer. Costs, however, are recorded as incurred, whether or not the contract is signed. While we do not incur significant costs until we are awarded a project and we do 14 everything possible to expedite the formal execution of these agreements by the customer, the timing of this final step is outside our control. Until we complete our transition over to a school-based fiscal year our current calendar-based fiscal year makes it more difficult for us to forecast quarterly revenue streams from these contracts. This may make it more difficult for us to deliver operating results in line with analysts’ forecasts, and could therefore adversely affect our stock price. Because our customers are unable to begin payment for services until formal approval of the agreement, this delay in formal contract execution may also cause our cash balances to fluctuate significantly from period to period and may expose us to credit risk. We believe that we may be able to recover monies owed from a customer for which we have performed services but who fails to render payment in the absence of a signed contract based on several legal theories designed to prevent unjust enrichment. However, this basis of recovery may not be available in all jurisdictions where we enter into these contracts, or may limit our recovery with respect to amounts or timing. Accordingly, the absence of a signed agreement may, depending on the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, make it substantially more difficult or impossible for us to recover sums due to us under these agreements. While we have not experienced a default by a customer under such circumstances to date, and believe that the nature of the parties with which we are contracting makes such a default less likely, it is a possibility that such circumstances may arise in the future with respect to one or more of these contracts. We face intense competition that could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and market share. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, and we expect increased competition in the future that could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and market share. Our current competitors include but are not limited to: • providers of online and offline test preparation and tutoring services; • companies that provide SES services; • companies that provide print, software, web-based and other educational assessment and supplemental products and services to districts and states in the highly competitive K-12 market; and • companies that offer both face-to-face and web-based products and services to assist individuals and educational organizations with counseling, marketing and student applications. Some of our competitors may have more resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their services and respond more quickly than we can to new technologies or changes in customer preferences. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position or otherwise compete effectively with current or future competitors, especially those with significantly greater resources. Some of our competitors that provide K-12 educational products and services may have more experience, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in that market. Further, established companies with high brand recognition and extensive experience providing various educational products to the K-12 market may develop products and services that are competitive with ours. Negative developments in school funding could reduce our institutional revenue. We expect to derive a growing portion of our revenue from sales of our products and services to educational institutions, including our K-12 Services division’s offerings, high school counseling products, SES programs and institutional test preparation offerings. Our ability to generate revenue from these sources may be adversely affected by decreased government funding of education. Public school funding is heavily dependent on support from federal, state and local governments and is sensitive to government budgets. In addition, the government appropriations process is often slow and unpredictable. Funding difficulties also could cause schools to be more resistant to price increases in our products, compared to other businesses that might be better able to pass on price increases to their customers. 15 While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and our auditors, who are required to issue an audit report covering our internal control over financial reporting, may not agree with management’s assessment. As of December 31, 2004, our internal control over financial reporting was ineffective due to the presence of material weaknesses. We invested significant resources to help drive process improvements and strengthen internal control. As a result, as more fully described in Section 9.A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2005. However, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may again become inadequate or may otherwise deteriorate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors disagree with us or are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility or adversely affect our stock price. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue because the markets in which we operate are subject to seasonal fluctuations based on the scheduled dates for standardized admissions tests and the typical school year. These fluctuations could result in volatility or adversely affect our stock price. We typically generate the largest portion of our test preparation revenue in the third quarter. However, as SES revenues increase, we expect to recognize these revenues primarily in the first and fourth quarters. The electronic application revenue recorded in our Admissions Services division is highest in the first and fourth quarters, corresponding with the busiest times of year for submission of applications to academic institutions. Our K-12 Services division experiences seasonal fluctuations in revenue, with the first and fourth quarters (corresponding to the school year) expected to have the highest revenue. Our quarterly operating results are not indicative of future performance and are difficult to forecast. Our quarterly operating results may not meet expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition to the seasonal fluctuations described above, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter in response to a variety of other factors beyond our control, including: • our customers’ spending patterns, which, in some cases, are difficult to predict; • the timing of school districts’ funding sources and budget cycles; • the timing of signing, expirations and renewals of educational institution contracts; • variations in product mix, particularly in the case of our K-12 Services division; • the timing of corporate sponsorships and advertising; and 16 • non-recurring charges incurred in connection with acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. Due to these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be indicative of our future performance and you should not rely on them to predict the future performance of our stock price. In addition, our past results may not be indicative of future performance because several of our businesses were introduced or acquired relatively recently. Loss of significant customers could significantly adversely affect our revenue or cause disruptions in our operations. As the business of our K-12 Services division has evolved, the contracts entered into with school districts have generally increased in size. As a result, two customers accounted for 56% and 59% of that division’s revenue in 2005 and 2004, respectively. The loss of one or more such customers could significantly adversely affect our revenue. Additionally, we rely on Random House as the publisher and distributor of all of the books we write. Royalties and other fees from books authored by us and published and distributed by Random House represented approximately 3% of our revenue in each of 2005 and 2004. Accordingly, termination of our relationship with Random House could adversely affect our revenue and cause disruption in our operations. If we are not able to continually enhance our web-based products and services and adapt them to changes in technology, our future revenue growth could be adversely affected. If our improvement and adaptation of our web-based products and services is delayed, results in systems interruptions or is not aligned with market expectations or preferences, our revenue growth could be adversely affected. The online environment is rapidly evolving, and the technology used in web-based products changes quickly. We must therefore be able to quickly modify our solutions to adapt to emerging online standards and practices, technological advances, and changing user and sponsor preferences. Ongoing enhancement of our web site, web-based products and related technology will entail significant expense and technical risk. We may use new technologies ineffectively or fail to adapt our web site, web-based products and related technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. If our domestic franchisees contest our interpretation of our agreements with them, our ability to offer our products in the domestic franchisees’ territories could be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our revenue. If our domestic franchisees contest our interpretation of our rights and obligations under our existing agreements with them, then our ability to deliver our products and services within their franchise territories could be hindered, and our revenue could be adversely affected. Through a series of franchise agreements and other agreements, our independent franchisees have various rights to provide test preparation products and services under the Princeton Review brand within specified territories, and to use our trademarks and other intellectual property in connection with providing these services. Similarly, we have various rights to market and sell our products and services in the franchisees’ territories. Our agreements have been reviewed and renegotiated to accommodate our business goals and the goals of our franchisees as they have both developed over the years. If we do not adequately protect the intellectual property rights to our products and services, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. Failure to protect our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our business. We depend on our ability to protect our brand, our products and services and the systems that deliver those products and services to our customers. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to protect these products. These intellectual property rights distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. If others are able to copy, use and market these products and delivery systems, then we may not be able to maintain our competitive position. Despite our best efforts, we cannot assure you that our intellectual 17 property rights will not be infringed, violated or legally imitated. Existing laws do not provide complete protection and policing the unauthorized use of our products and services requires significant resources. If our products and services infringe the intellectual property rights of others, this may result in costly litigation or the loss of our own intellectual property rights, which could materially adversely affect our business. Competitors and others have claimed and may claim in the future that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. The defense of any lawsuit, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may lose, or be limited in, the rights to offer our products and services. Any proceedings or claims of this type could materially adversely affect our business. We may be held liable for the content of materials that we author, content available on our web site or products sold through our web site. We may be subject to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the content of materials that we author, and content that is published on or downloaded from our web sites, accessible from our web sites through links to other web sites or posted by our users in chat rooms or bulletin boards. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as print publications in the past. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type, such as trademark infringement or defamation, or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, these claims, with or without merit, would result in diversion of our management personnel and financial resources. Further, if print publications that we author contain material that customers find objectionable, these publications may have to be recalled, which could result in lost revenue and adverse publicity. The loss of our senior management could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the continued service of our senior management. The loss of any of our Chief Executive Officer, John Katzman, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Mark Chernis, or our Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Bonanni, could materially adversely affect our business. Our business may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees that are outside our control. Approximately 5% of our 2005 revenue was derived from royalties paid to us by our franchisees and from sales of our course and marketing materials to these franchisees. The quality of franchised test preparation operations may be diminished if our franchisees do not successfully provide test preparation services in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or do not hire and train qualified managers or instructors. As a result, our image and reputation may suffer and our revenue could decline. Franchise regulations could limit our ability to terminate or replace unproductive franchises, which could adversely affect our results of operations, and could limit our ability to expand internationally through franchising. Applicable laws may delay or prevent us from terminating an unproductive franchise or withholding consent to renewal or transfer of a franchise, which could have an adverse effect on franchise royalties. We are subject to both federal and state laws regulating the offer and sale of franchises. These laws also frequently apply substantive standards to the relationship between franchisor and franchisee and limit the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise. Some foreign countries also have laws affecting the offer and sale of franchises within their borders and to their citizens and U.S. federal and state franchise regulation may be applicable to our efforts to establish franchises abroad. Failure to comply with these laws could limit or preclude our ability to expand internationally through franchising. Compliance with federal, state and international franchise laws can be costly and time consuming, and we cannot be certain that we will not encounter delays, expenses or other difficulties in this area. Further, the nature and effect of any future legislation or regulation of our franchise operations cannot be predicted. 18 If we are unable to obtain additional capital, our business may be adversely affected. We currently expect to secure a revolving line of credit to support our working capital requirements. In the future, we may require substantial additional capital to finance ongoing operations or the growth of our business. To the extent that our existing sources of liquidity, cash flow from operations and anticipated credit line are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise additional funds. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain needed financing on favorable terms. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to sell debt or additional equity securities or to reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow. Without additional capital, we may not be able to: • further develop or enhance our services and products; • acquire necessary technologies, products or businesses; • expand operations in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; • market our services and products; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. Charges related to our recent acquisitions could negatively affect our results of operations. In connection with our acquisitions of the businesses of Embark.com, Inc. and several of our franchisees over the last five years, we recorded a total of approximately $33.4 million of goodwill. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, requires goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life to be reviewed at least annually for impairment. To the extent these assets are deemed to be impaired, they must be written down. At December 31, 2004, we wrote down $8.2 million in goodwill associated with our acquisition of Embark, due to the Admission Services division’s poor performance. Any future write down of goodwill, while noncash, would similarly adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2005, we had unamortized goodwill of $23.6 million related to these acquisitions. We may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute the equity interest of our stockholders, increase our debt or cause us to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a detrimental effect on the price of our common stock. If any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with our business, our ongoing operations could be negatively affected. We may acquire the businesses of our remaining domestic franchisees or other businesses, products or technologies in the future. To facilitate future acquisitions, we may take actions that could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock, including: • issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incurring substantial debt; or • assuming contingent liabilities. Acquisitions also entail numerous business risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; • negative effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; 19 • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • the potential inability to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may be harmed. Historically we have increased our work force, introduced a number of new products, made substantial enhancements to our existing products and consummated several acquisitions. At December 31, 2005, we had 633 full time employees, as compared with 335 full time employees at December 31, 2001. This recent growth has placed, and our anticipated growth in future operations will continue to place, significant demands on our management, and strain our operational, financial and technological resources. We expect that further expansion of our operations will be required to successfully implement our business strategy, including the continued enhancement of our product and service offerings. In order to manage our growth effectively, we must drive business process improvement, reduce our overhead costs, replace and or upgrade several significant systems and continue implementing internal control procedures and controls. If we fail to achieve these objectives our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may undertake divestitures that may limit our ability to manage and maintain our business and may adversely affect our business. In the future, we may undertake sales or other strategic dispositions of certain businesses or operations to attempt to maximize stockholder value. These transactions involve a number of risks, including: • Diversion of management attention and transaction costs associated with negotiating and closing the transaction; • Inability to retain customers, management, key personnel and other employees due to the altered nature of our businesses after such transaction; • Inability to realize the benefits of divestitures and collect monies owed to us; and • Failure to realize the highest value of the divested business because we are selling it before its full potential has been achieved. We could be liable for events that occur at facilities that we use to provide our services, and a liability claim against us could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. We could become liable for the actions of instructors and other personnel at the facilities we use to provide our classroom-based services. In the event of on-site accidents, injuries or other harm to students, we could face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision or were otherwise liable for the injuries. Although we maintain liability insurance, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us fully from these claims. In addition, we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future at reasonable prices or at all. A successful liability claim could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause unfavorable publicity, entail substantial expense and divert the time and attention of key management personnel. If we experience system failures, our reputation may be harmed and users may seek alternate service providers causing us to lose revenue. If our primary and backup computer systems were to fail or be disrupted, our services could be interrupted and we may lose revenue and future business. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires and power loss and similar events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of terrorism, vandalism and other misconduct and disruptions or delays occurring throughout the Internet network infrastructure. Although all of our material systems are redundant, short-term service interruptions may take place if our primary systems were to fail or be disrupted and we are forced to transition to backup systems. All of 20 our computer hardware necessary for our online operations is currently located at a professional datacenter in White Plains, NY. This facility has redundancy for power, A/C and internet access. Accordingly, our online operations are dependent on our ability to maintain our systems in effective working order and to protect them from disruptive events. We do not have a formal disaster recovery plan, and our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures of or interruptions in our systems. In addition, the system failures of third party Internet service providers could produce interruptions in our service for those users who access our services through these third party providers. Service interruptions could reduce our revenue and our future revenue will be harmed if our users believe that our system is unreliable. If our systems are unable to accommodate a high volume of traffic on our web site, the growth of our revenue could be reduced or limited. If use of our web site infrastructure increases beyond our capacity, customers may experience delays and interruptions in service. As a result, they may seek the products and services of our competitors and the growth of our revenue could be reduced or limited. Because we seek to generate a high volume of traffic and accommodate a large number of customers on our web site, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our web site, processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to serve our customers. If use of our web site continues to increase, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. While slower response times have not had a material effect on our results of operations to date, our web sites have in the past and may in the future experience slower response times due to increased traffic. Future regulations or the interpretation of existing laws pertaining to the Internet could decrease the demand for our products or increase the cost of doing business. Any new law or regulation pertaining to the Internet, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, could increase our cost of doing business, decrease the demand for our products and services, or otherwise harm our business. We must comply with a variety of federal and state laws affecting the content of materials distributed over the Internet, as well as regulations and other laws restricting the collection, use and disclosure of personal information that we may obtain in the course of providing our online services. In particular, we must comply with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which, as implemented, mandates that we obtain verifiable, informed parental consent before we collect, use or disclose personal information from children under the age of 13. Future laws or regulations may relate to information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, consumer protection, online content, user privacy, taxation and the quality of products and services. Compliance with future laws and regulations, or existing laws as they may be interpreted in the future, could be expensive, time consuming, impractical or impossible. We may be liable for invasion of privacy or misappropriation by others of our users’ information, which could adversely affect our reputation and financial results. Some of our services require the disclosure of sensitive information by the user. We rely on a number of security systems for our services to protect this information from unauthorized use or access. If the security measures that we use to protect personal information or credit card information are ineffective, we may be subject to liability, including claims for invasion of privacy, impersonation, unauthorized purchases with credit card information or other similar claims. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several states have investigated the use of personal information by certain Internet companies. We could incur significant expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if our privacy practices are investigated. 21 Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect our stockholders. Since our initial public offering in 2001, the market price of our common stock has been volatile, and it may continue to be volatile as a result of one or more of the following factors, most of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • the discussion of our company or stock price in online investor communities such as chat rooms; • additions or departures of key personnel • fluctuations in stock market price and volume, and • our continuing operating losses. In addition, the market prices of the securities of Internet-related companies have been volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our stock. In the past, securities class action lawsuits alleging fraud have often been filed against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. In the future, we may be the target of similar lawsuits. If a lawsuit were to be filed against us, it could result in substantial costs and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our financial results or result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our common stock could also harm employee morale and retention, our ability to attract qualified employees and our access to capital. We have anti-takeover protections, which may discourage or prevent a takeover of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, even if a takeover would benefit our stockholders. The provisions in our corporate documents: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; • establish a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 22 In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our stock option plans may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control, which may depress the market price of our common stock. Concentration of ownership among our existing executive officers and directors may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence significant corporate decisions and may hinder a change of control. As of March 10, 2006, our present directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, John S. Katzman, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately 32% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, thereby possibly depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of any sale or acquisition. The issuance of our shares of common stock upon conversion or redemption of outstanding preferred stock may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. On June 4, 2004, we completed a private placement to Fletcher International, Ltd. of 10,000 shares of our Series B-1 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the “Series B-1 Preferred Stock”) for $10 million in the aggregate. Dividends on the Series B-1 Preferred Stock are payable quarterly, at our option in cash or registered shares of our common stock, at a minimum rate of 5% per annum. The Series B-1 Preferred Stock is convertible into 1,007,303 shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $9.9275 per share, subject to adjustment upon certain events. Fletcher may also redeem its shares of the Series B-1 Preferred Stock, in lieu of converting such shares, at any time on or after November 28, 2005, for shares of common stock, unless we satisfy the conditions for cash redemption, for an amount of shares of our common stock based upon a redemption rate equal to 102.5% of the then prevailing price of our common stock plus the value of any accrued and unpaid dividends. Fletcher also has the right, for a period of twenty-four months, beginning on July 1, 2005, to purchase up to $20 million in newly created series of preferred stock having, except as set forth in our agreement with Fletcher, similar terms, conditions, rights, preferences and privileges as the Series B-1 Preferred Stock (the “Additional Preferred Stock”). The Additional Preferred Stock will be convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion price equal to 108.3% of the then prevailing price of our common stock, subject to a minimum of $9.9275 per share The issuance of our shares of common stock to Fletcher upon conversion or redemption of the Series B-1 Preferred Stock and the Additional Preferred Stock and their resale by Fletcher will increase our publicly traded shares. These resale’s could also depress the market price of our common stock. We will not control whether or when Fletcher elects to convert its securities for common stock. The perceived risk of dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their shares, which would contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our common stock. Moreover, the perceived risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could encourage investors to engage in short sales of our common stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our common stock. In connection with the private placement of Series B-1 Preferred Stock, we may be responsible for having the resale of shares issued or issuable to Fletcher registered with the SEC and may be subject to penalties if the shares are not registered with the SEC. Pursuant to our agreement with Fletcher, we are obligated to file a registration statement with the SEC at any time that the number of shares of common stock issued or issuable under the agreement exceeds 80% of the number of shares then registered. If we fail to file any such required registration statement and have it declared effective by the SEC, we must (i) issue to Fletcher a number of additional shares to reflect the number of shares it would have acquired if its purchase price was based on the actual 23 conversion price reduced by five percent for each month in which we fail to satisfy our obligations and (ii) adjust the conversion price for the additional investment rights to such lower price. In addition, such failure will result in an extension of the investment term for each day we fail to satisfy our registration obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 