D. Risk factors Risks Relating to Maxcom We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations and implement our business plan. Our business plan, including the expansion of our network and services, require significant capital expenditures. In turn, our ability to fund these planned capital expenditures as well our operating expenses and our debt service obligations will depend on our ability to develop a significantly larger customer base and increase our operating cash flows. However, we may not succeed in attracting more customers and as a result our business may not generate sufficient operating cash flows to implement our business plan or even meet our existing debt service obligations. For example, from our incorporation in 1996 through 2003 we generated negative operating cash flows. If we cannot service our debt obligations, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity investments, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, or restructuring our indebtedness pursuant to in court or out of court procedures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will need additional financing to implement our business plan after 2007 and such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We may require additional capital in the future to: • fund our operations; • enhance and expand the range of services we offer; • maintain, expand or upgrade our network infrastructure; and • respond to competitive pressures and potential strategic opportunities, such as investments and acquisitions. Although we currently have sufficient resources to fund our budgeted capital expenditures of U.S.$96.9 million for 2007, we will need to incur additional financing to continue the implementation of our business plan beyond 2007. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available in the future or, if available, that it will be on terms favorable or acceptable to us, including at an interest rate we could service. The cost of capital is variable based on a number of factors, including general market conditions and market interest rates. The terms of available financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. In addition, the indenture governing our 11% senior secured notes due 2014, which we refer to as the senior secured notes, contains financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness and obtain financing. If we cannot obtain additional financing, we may be forced to reduce our operations or it could impede the implementation of our business strategy or our entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Furthermore, our failure to obtain additional financing could reduce our competitiveness as our competitors may develop networks with better service or offer an expanded range of services. Moreover, to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness or other 6 Table of Contents obligations, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the possible inability to service our existing indebtedness, would increase. We may be unable to build out our network in a timely manner or without undue cost. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend in large part upon the successful, timely and cost-effective buildout of our network. Factors that could affect such buildout include: • municipal or regional political events or local rulings; • our inability to obtain permits to use public rights of way; • our inability to generate cash flow or to obtain future financing necessary for such buildout; • unforeseen delays, costs or impediments relating to the granting of municipal and state permits for our buildout; • delays or disruptions resulting from physical damage, power loss, defective equipment or the failure of third-party suppliers or contractors to meet their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner; and • regulatory and political risks relating to Mexico, such as the revocation or termination of our concessions, the temporary seizure or permanent expropriation of assets, import and export controls, political instability, changes in the regulation of telecommunications and any future restrictions or easing of restrictions on the repatriation of profits or on foreign investment. Although we believe that our cost estimates and buildout schedule are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the actual construction costs or time required to complete the buildout will not substantially exceed our current estimates. Any significant cost overrun or delay could hinder or prevent the successful implementation of our business plan and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of key personnel could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are managed by a small number of executive officers and key management personnel. Our continued success, including our ability to effectively expand our network, provide existing services and develop and introduce new services, largely depends on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and other key management employees, as well as our ability to hire and retain highly skilled and qualified management personnel. Between 2000 and 2004, we experienced significant turnover in our executive ranks, including in the positions of chief executive officer, chief marketing officer and chief financial officer, which adversely affected our ability to develop and execute our business strategies during such period. The competition for highly qualified management personnel in the telecommunications industry is intense and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to hire or retain the necessary management personnel. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if, for any reason, a number of our officers or key employees did not remain with us and we were unable to promptly replace them with qualified personnel. We may not have sufficient personnel to grow as rapidly as we would like. Our expected rate of growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial personnel. We anticipate that continued growth will require us to recruit and hire a significant number of new non-executive managerial, finance, sales and marketing, accounting and support personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel who can support the implementation of our business plan, our growth may be limited and the quality of our services may be impaired. This inability could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on Telmex for interconnection. Teléfonos de México, S.A.B. de C.V., or Telmex, and its affiliates exert significant influence on all aspects of the telecommunications market in Mexico, including interconnection agreements for local and long-distance services. We use Telmex’s network for call termination to service virtually all of our customers’ calls to Telmex’s 7 Table of Contents customers. Our current local interconnection agreement with Telmex incorporates a “bill and keep” procedure under which we do not pay Telmex an interconnection fee unless we exceed a certain level of traffic imbalance. Under the “bill and keep” arrangement, if the imbalance between calls originated by Telmex and terminated by Maxcom and calls originated by Maxcom and terminated by Telmex during a month does not exceed 5%, excluding commercial traffic and customers who have had contracts for less than 180 days, then no interconnection fee amounts are payable by the net carrier of interconnection services. The interconnection rate is currently Ps.0.1053 (U.S.$0.00975) per minute. If the allowed percentage for imbalance of traffic for the “bill and keep” procedure is exceeded and/or if the “bill and keep” procedure is eliminated and we have to pay Telmex for local interconnection, we cannot assure you that we will be able to offer services at profitable and competitive rates. In addition, if the Ministry of Communications and Transportation (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes), which we refer to as SCT, or the Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones), which we refer to as COFETEL, ceased to regulate Telmex’s pricing, the resulting competitive climate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not successfully upgrade our accounting, billing, customer service and management information systems as new technology becomes available, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Sophisticated information and processing systems are important to our existing operations and future growth and our ability to monitor costs, deliver invoices, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. While we have installed systems we deem necessary to conduct our operations efficiently, we intend to upgrade our accounting, information and processing systems as new and more cost efficient technology becomes available. We believe we have budgeted for the applicable expenditures and will have sufficient resources to make such investments. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully upgrade such systems as technology advances and any inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect and maintain our network infrastructure. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our network infrastructure against damage from fire, earthquakes, floods, power loss and other similar events and to construct future networks that are not vulnerable to the effects of such events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem at our facilities or at the sites of our switches could cause interruptions in the services we provide. The failure of a switch would result in the interruption of service to the customers served by that switch until necessary repairs are completed or replacement equipment is installed. The successful operation of our network and its components is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain the network and its components in reliable enough working order to provide sufficient quality of service to attract and maintain customers. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in our operations or lack of adequate maintenance of our network could result in the loss of customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be negatively affected by “by-pass” international traffic. Pursuant to COFETEL regulations, international long-distance traffic in Mexico must be routed and terminated through authorized international gateways at established international settlement rates. However, less expensive alternatives which by-pass authorized gateways exist, particularly in the case of countries with whom Mexico exchanges a significant amount of traffic. Given the disparity between the government-authorized and alternative long-distance interconnection and termination rates through local service routes and/or IP services, an increasing portion of the long-distance market between Mexico and the United States is served by entities that circumvent or “by-pass” the international long-distance interconnection system. This practice is illegal under applicable law. Maxcom cannot confirm whether any of its high-volume customers are engaging in “by-pass” activities because it is not required to make such a determination under Mexican regulations and therefore has not implemented a system to detect such activity. Maxcom is required, however, to comply with any COFETEL order to disconnect a customer deemed to be engaged in “by-pass” activities by COFETEL. In 2000, Mexican 8 Table of Contents regulatory authorities announced their intention to conduct more rigorous audits of persons or companies believed to be engaged in “by-pass” activities. In December 2000, some of the major Mexican long-distance carriers, including Maxcom, signed a cooperation agreement to combat “by-pass” activities. If, as a consequence of such actions, the regulatory authorities determine that any of our high-volume customers are engaged in “by-pass” activity, Maxcom would be required to disconnect their service and our revenues could be negatively affected. Our telecommunications network infrastructure has several vulnerabilities and limitations. Our telecommunications network is the source of all our revenues. Any problem with or limitation of our network may result in a reduction in the number of our customers or a reduction in the usage level by our customers, and a reduction in our revenues. The development and operation of our network is subject to problems and technological risks, including: • physical damage; • power loss; • capacity limitations; • software defects as well as hardware and software obsolescence; • breaches of security, whether by computer virus, break-in or otherwise; • failure to interconnect with carriers linking us with our customers; • denial of access to our sites for failure to obtain required municipal or other regulatory approvals; and • other factors which may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for our customers. A failure to achieve current specifications for, or future upgrades of, our network could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our results may be negatively impacted by high levels of churn. A high rate of residential or business customer lines attrition, or “churn,” could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Churn may be impacted by: • customer delinquency; • our limited coverage area that restricts our ability to continue providing service when a customer moves; • our failure to meet service levels required by our customers; • our failure to provide, efficiently or on competitive terms, other services demanded by our customers; • promotional and pricing strategies of our competitors; and • macroeconomic conditions in Mexico. During 2006, we experienced churn of approximately 45,000 residential and business customer voice lines, which resulted in an average monthly churn rate of approximately 1.6%. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for a discussion of voice and wholesale lines. Although we have been able to reduce our churn rate, a high churn rate in the future would increase our cost of operations and reduce our operating income and thus could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, including our ability to fulfill our obligations under our existing senior secured notes and our ability to operate our business and implement our business plan. We are highly leveraged. As of March 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness in the amount of Ps.2,311.2 million (U.S.$214.0 million), which consists primarily of U.S.$175 million aggregate principal of senior secured notes. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including 9 Table of Contents secured indebtedness. Although the terms of the indenture governing our senior secured notes will restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to important exceptions and qualifications including with respect to our ability to incur additional senior secured indebtedness. If we or our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or for other purposes, the risks related to our business associated with our high level of indebtedness could be intensified. Specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, reducing the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the telecommunications industry; • limiting our ability to take advantage of opportunities for acquisitions and other business combinations; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing or obtain it on commercially reasonable terms, to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. If we and our subsidiaries incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, the leverage-related risks that we now face could intensify and have a material adverse effect on business, results of operation and financial condition. The indenture governing our senior secured notes contains restrictions on our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. The indenture governing our senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to engage in certain transactions or business activities that may be important to our growth strategy, necessary to remain competitive or otherwise important to us. The indenture restricts, among others, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; • make investments or other specified restricted payments; • create liens; • enter into mergers, consolidations, sales of substantially all of our assets and other forms of business combinations; • enter into change of control transactions; • sell assets and subsidiary stock; and • enter into transactions with affiliates. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we could be in default despite our ability to service our indebtedness. If there were a default under the indenture of our senior secured notes, holders of the notes could demand immediate payment of the aggregate principal amount and accrued interest on the notes outstanding. This could lead to our inability to pay our obligations or to our bankruptcy or reorganization for the benefit of our 10 Table of Contents creditors. Any additional financings we obtain in the future would most likely contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Risks Relating to the Mexican Telecommunications Industry We may face additional competition in the future from new market participants, which may result in lower prices for telecommunications services, lower margins and/or a loss of market share. The telecommunications industry in Mexico is increasingly competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of features, quality, pricing and customer service. We face significant competition from Telmex in all of the areas where we operate. In particular, as the former state-owned telecommunications monopoly, Telmex has significantly greater financial and other resources than those available to us. In addition, Telmex has a nationwide network and an established customer base. An affiliate of Telmex also owns Mexico’s largest carrier of mobile telephony, Radiomovil Dipsa, S.A. de C.V., or Telcel. Telcel has gained penetration in some market segments where Telmex has not. We also face significant competition from recent entrants in the cities of Mexico City, Puebla and Queretaro, in part, because the Mexican government is granting local concessions to most of the long-distance carriers and cable TV companies. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources than us. On October 4, 2006, the federal government enacted a new directive known as the “Convergence Regulations,” (Acuerdo de Convergencia de Servicios Fijos de Telefonía Local y Televisión y/o Audio Restringidos que se Proporcionan a través de Redes Públicas Alámbricas e Inalámbricas). These regulations allow certain concessionaries of media and telecommunication services to provide other services not included in their original concessions through voluntary adherence to the regulations. Upon compliance with certain regulations, cable television providers are now allowed to provide voice and data services. Likewise, voice and data service providers, upon compliance with certain regulations, are now allowed to provide television services. In addition, the Mexican government is allowing cable companies to act as “carriers of carriers” by providing bi — directional data, Internet broadband services and voice services, including VoIP services. Additionally, these regulations have opened the opportunity for Telmex to request an amendment to its concessions to enable it to provide cable TV services. Several cable television network providers have requested that the SCT modify their concession titles to allow them to offer telephone services directly to the public. As a result, the successful implementation of our business plan may be impeded by cable operators who have substantial coverage of cities we currently serve and can offer the same services we provide at lower prices since telephony income represents incremental revenue to cable operators. We believe that we may face significant competition from new entrants providing telephony services, including cable television providers. Several companies without legal authorization have begun to target the Mexican telecommunications market to offer telephone services through the Internet. Moreover, although we have obtained the authorization to provide cable television services in most of our service areas, we are uncertain about our ability to provide profitably these new services due to the market penetration of current competitors providing similar services in such areas. Additionally, in November 2006, the Mexican Federal Power Commission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad), which we refer to as CFE, announced that it had obtained a concession from the Mexican federal government, through the SCT, to use its power lines and infrastructure to provide telecommunication services using the new technology model known as power line communications, or PLC, and broadband over power lines communications, or BPL. We believe that this action will cause an important reduction in the prices on the lease of infrastructure, as the CFE owns approximately 14,000 kilometers of power lines that could be used to transmit voice, data and video. We are uncertain as to how the CFE concession to render telecommunication services could affect us as well as the telecommunications landscape in Mexico. As a result of the World Trade Organization settlement between Mexico and the United States regarding the disputes over U.S. telecommunications companies’ access to the Mexican telecommunications market, on August 12, 2005, COFETEL published regulations authorizing the issuance of permits for the resale of national and international long-distance public switched telecommunications services, through the use of minutes of service obtained from concessionaires and using their infrastructure at all times. This authorization has increased competition in the long-distance segment. 11 Table of Contents We also depend on revenues from certain highly competitive segments. High volume business customers are one of the most attractive niches in the market. This segment is serviced by a number of carriers that offer competitive telecommunications services solutions. The loss of these business customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Mexican government has announced its intention to auction during 2007 certain WiMax and WiFi frequency bands in the 3.4 — 3.8 GHz band. If we are not able to obtain spectrum in such frequency bands, we could be disadvantaged compared to the carriers obtaining such frequencies and against Telmex and Axtel who currently own concessions in such frequencies. Rate pressure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and our financial condition. We expect the Mexican telecommunications market to continue to experience rate pressure, primarily as a result of: • increased competition and focus by our competitors on increasing market share; • recent technological advances that permit substantial increases in the transmission capacity of both new and existing fiber-optic networks, resulting in long-distance overcapacity and rate pressure; • increased participation of traditional fixed-line competitors; • the entrance of cable television operators into certain markets where we currently offer service; and • the entrance of new competitors, such as broadcasting companies or the CFE. Continued rate pressure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results if we are unable to generate sufficient traffic and increased revenues to offset the impact of the decreased rates on our operating margin. If the Mexican government grants more concessions, the value of our concessions could be severely impaired. The telecommunications industry is regulated by the Mexican government. Our concessions are not exclusive and the Mexican government is granting concessions covering the same geographic regions and frequency bands to other entrants. We cannot assure you that additional concessions to provide similar services to those we provide or plan to provide will not be granted to other competitors and that the value of our concessions will not be adversely affected. We could lose our concessions if we do not fully comply with their terms. Under the terms of our concessions, we are required to meet a number of technical, buildout and financial conditions. In September 2002 and November 2003, we notified COFETEL of our failure to provide coverage in certain towns and cities within the timeframe required by our local and long-distance concessions. In addition, we did not meet certain buildout obligations in certain towns and cities by September 2004, as required by our concessions. On December 2004, we obtained a modification to the buildout requirements of the concessions from COFETEL and we are now in compliance with all material aspects of our concessions. However, we cannot assure that we will not be fined for our past failure to comply with the terms of our concession. A failure to comply with any of the terms of our concessions or to obtain a waiver or modification, including the modification described above, could result in the termination of any of our concessions, the imposition of fines or the loss of performance bonds that we have issued to the SCT for an amount of Ps.14.8 million with respect to our local telephony and long-distance concessions, Ps.13.4 million with respect to all seven of our point-to point microwave concessions and Ps.5.2 million with respect to all three of our point-to-multipoint microwave concessions. The Mexican government is not required to compensate us in case of such termination. See “Regulatory Framework — Concessions and Permits — Termination.” If any of our concessions were to be terminated, we would be unable to engage in our core business, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Fraudulent use of telecommunications networks increases our expenses. The fraudulent use of telecommunications networks imposes a significant cost upon service providers, who must bear the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. We suffer a loss of revenue as a result of fraudulent use and a cash cost due to our obligation to reimburse carriers for the cost of services provided to fraudulent users. Although we have installed technology to combat fraudulent use and will continue to evaluate and select amongst new fraud detection technologies as they become available, technology does not eliminate fraud entirely. In addition, since we rely on other long-distance carriers for interconnection, some of which do not have anti-fraud technology in their networks, we are particularly exposed to this risk in our long-distance service and in traffic originating in our network to mobile users under the mode of “calling party pays.” In 2006, our expenses for the prevention and detection of fraud were not significant. Due to cost reduction measures, we may elect not to upgrade our licenses relating to anti-fraud software or to cover maintenance fees. Rapid technological advances may require us to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the competitiveness of our service offerings. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and requires the introduction of new products and services. Like other operators, we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. New services and technological advances may offer additional opportunities for competitors to compete against us on the basis of cost, quality or functionality. While we have been installing what we believe to be a technologically advanced fiber optic network with a microwave overlay, we cannot assure you that this technology will not be challenged by competition from new or improved digital or other technologies in the near future. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to technological changes. This may require us to devote significant capital to the development, procurement or implementation of new technologies. Additionally, our adoption of new imported technology may be dependent upon the final cost and our ability to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the nature and extent of the impact of technological change on our viability or competitiveness. If any future technological change places at risk our viability or competitiveness, the cost of upgrading our products and technology to remain competitive could be significant and our ability to fund this upgrading may depend on our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us. We would be adversely affected if we are not able to renew our existing concessions or if the Mexican government revokes our concessions. We hold concessions that enable us to provide fixed telephony services. All of our concessions have a specified duration and are scheduled to expire between 2016 and 2028. Mexican law provides that concessions, except for the microwave transmission concessions, may be renewed for a period equal to the period of the original concession if the renewal is requested prior to the termination of the original concession and all requirements set forth in the concession and applicable law are satisfied. The microwave transmission concessions, which were issued in April 1998, have a fixed term of 20 years and COFETEL will re-auction the frequencies covered by the concessions at least three years before their expiration date. There can be no assurances that any of our concessions will be renewed or under what terms they would be renewed as final approval of the renewal of concessions is always at the discretion of the SCT or that we will successfully bid for and retain the microwave transmission concessions. Failure to renew any of our concessions will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under Mexican law, our concessions could be expropriated or temporarily seized. Pursuant to the Mexican law, the public telecommunications networks are considered public domain. Holders of concessions to install, operate and develop public telecommunications networks are subject to the provisions of the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law (Ley Federal de Telecomunicaciones) and any other provision 13 Table of Contents contained in the concession title. The Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law and other applicable laws provide, among other things, the following: • rights and obligations granted under the concessions to install, operate and develop public telecommunications networks may only be assigned with the prior authorization of the SCT; • neither the concession nor the rights thereunder or the related assets may be assigned, pledged, mortgaged or sold to any government or country; and • the Mexican government (through the SCT) may permanently expropriate any telecommunications concession and claim any related asset for reason of public interest or may temporarily seize the assets related to the concessions in the event of natural disasters, war, significant public disturbance or threats to internal peace or for other reasons relating to economic or public order. Mexican law sets forth the process for indemnification for direct damages arising out of the expropriation or temporary seizure of the assets related to the concessions, except in the event of war. However, in the event of expropriation, we cannot assure you that the indemnification will equal the market value of the concessions and related assets or that we will receive such indemnification in a timely manner. Mexican law does not prohibit a grant of a security interest in the concessions and the assets by the concessionaire to its creditors (except for security granted to a foreign government or country), provided, however, that all applicable procedural laws are followed. In the event such security interest is enforced, the assignee must comply with the Mexican Federal Telecommunications Law’s provisions related to concessionaires, including, among others, the requirement to receive the authorization by the SCT to be a holder of the concession. “Long-distance Calling Party Pays” system could increase our costs and result in a loss of traffic. On December 18, 2006, COFETEL implemented the “Long-distance Calling Party Pays” system, whereby the customer originating the domestic or international call, from either a fixed line or mobile phone to a mobile phone, pays the entire fee for placing the call rather than the mobile telephone subscriber who receives such call. Even though the mobile telephone subscriber receiving the call does not pay to receive the call, the network from which the call originates must still compensate the terminating mobile network. Maxcom has negotiated with mobile carriers the “Long-distance Calling Party Pays” interconnection tariff for local and long-distance calls to be terminated in such mobile operators’ network, achieving a significant reduction of the original tariff contemplated by the agreements implementing this system issued by COFETEL. The per minute tariffs will be Ps.1.34 in 2007, Ps.1.21 in 2008, Ps.1.09 in 2009 and Ps.1.00 in 2010. Even though we have negotiated better interconnection tariffs than those proposed by COFETEL, we believe that this new system may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign ownership restrictions may limit our ability to raise equity capital. Mexican law currently provides that no more than 49% of the full voting stock of a Mexican corporation holding a concession to provide telecommunications services, other than mobile services, may be held by non-Mexicans. Non-Mexican shareholders currently hold 49% of our full voting stock. In addition, Mexican authorities have mandated that our limited voting shares, which are also referred to as neutral investment shares, may not represent more than 95% of our total capital stock. Because of such restrictions, we have limited flexibility to raise equity capital from non-Mexican investors. As a result, any future sales of equity securities may require substantial participation by Mexicans, the issuance of non-voting securities to foreign investors or a modification of Mexican foreign investment laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that such a modification would be passed. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Mexico Political conditions in Mexico may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are incorporated in Mexico and substantially all of our assets and operations are located in Mexico. As a result, we are subject to political, legal and regulatory risks specific to Mexico which can have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political situation The Mexican federal elections were held on July 2, 2006. The Federal Electoral Court of the Federal Judicial Power (Tribunal Federal Electoral del Poder Judicial de la Federación) determined on September 5, 2006 that Felipe de Jesús Calderón Hinojosa of the Partido Acción Nacional, or PAN, won the presidential elections and formally declared him to be president elect, with a very narrow margin over Andrés Manuel López Obrador of the Partido de la Revolución Democrática, or PRD. Citing electoral fraud, Mr. López Obrador refused to concede the election. In addition, Mr. López Obrador led demonstrations protesting the electoral process and the legitimacy of Mr. Calderón’s electoral victory. On December 1, 2006, Felipe Calderón officially became President of Mexico. Although the PAN won a plurality of the seats in the Mexican Congress after the election, no party succeeded in securing a majority in either chamber of the Mexican Congress. We believe that the absence of a clear majority by a single party and the lack of alignment between the president and the legislature is likely to continue. This situation may result in government gridlock and political uncertainty. We cannot provide any assurance that the current political situation or any future political developments in Mexico will not have a material adverse effect on the telecommunications industry or our business, results of operations and financial position. Legal and regulatory situation The Mexican Supreme Court is considering the constitutionality of several articles of the Federal Telecommunications Law and the Federal Law on Radio and Television (Ley Federal de Radio y Televisión) as well as the authority of the Congress to object to the President’s ability to appoint the commissioners of the COFETEL, aiming to reinstall the previous commissioners appointed by the President but rejected by the Senate. We cannot predict the impact that the final opinion of Mexico’s Supreme Court could have on the regulation of the telecommunications industry. If Mexico experiences future economic crises, our business could be affected negatively. We are a Mexican company with all of our operations in Mexico. Accordingly, the economic environment within Mexico can have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic situation The Mexican government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Mexican economy. Accordingly, Mexican federal governmental actions and policies concerning the economy could have a significant impact on private sector entities in general and on us in particular and on market conditions, prices and returns on Mexican securities, including our securities. We cannot assure you that changes in Mexican federal governmental policies will not adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, Mexico has experienced economic crises caused by internal and external factors, characterized by exchange rate instability, high inflation, high domestic interest rates, economic contraction, a reduction of international capital flows, a reduction of liquidity in the banking sector and high unemployment. These economic conditions substantially reduced the purchasing power of the Mexican population and, as a result, the demand for telecommunications services. Crises such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on the market value of our securities. 15 Table of Contents Changes to Mexican laws, regulations and decrees applicable to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The telecommunications sector in Mexico is subject to extensive regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which are responsible for, among others, formulating policy, granting licenses, setting tariff schemes, regulating interconnection among providers, levying taxes on services and supervising the provision of services. The applicable regulatory scheme has been evolving since the privatization of the sector commenced in 1990. The operation of telecommunications systems in Mexico is subject to laws and regulations administered by the SCT and COFETEL. These governmental agencies may make regulatory interpretations or take regulatory actions that could damage our business. Effective April 11, 2006, the Mexican Congress enacted amendments to the Federal Law on Radio and Television and to the Federal Telecommunications Law, which are both currently under review by the Mexican Supreme Court. Pursuant to these amendments, COFETEL now also has the ability to regulate broadcasting (radio and television). We cannot predict how the SCT or COFETEL will interpret and implement the amendments to the Federal Law on Radio and Television and the Federal Telecommunications Law and thus how these new rules could affect our business. The Federal Telecommunications Law may be further amended, among other reasons, to permit a greater non-Mexican participation in our business. If any such amendment were passed, additional market entrants may purchase or initiate business in Mexico similar to our business. Such competitors may have greater resources than us and may start competing against us. Increased competition arising from amendments to the regulatory environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Exchange rate instability may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the price of our securities. While our revenues are almost entirely denominated in pesos, the majority of our obligations and all of our long-term indebtedness are denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, substantially all of our capital expenditures are denominated in U.S. dollars. We are, and will be, exposed to peso devaluation risk. The peso has devalued substantially against the U.S. dollar in the past and may devalue significantly in the future. For example, the noon buying rate rose from Ps.3.45 per U.S.$1.00 on December 19, 1994 to Ps.5.00 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 1994 and Ps.7.74 per U.S.$1.00 on December 31, 1995, representing a 124.6% devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar from December 19, 1994 to December 31, 1995. In 2003, the peso depreciated 9.0% relative to the U.S. dollar. The peso depreciated relative to the U.S. dollar 0.3% in 2004, appreciated 4.9% in 2005 and depreciated 1.5% in 2006. The peso-to-dollar exchange rate may experience significant devaluations in the future. Further declines in the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our ability to meet our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations, including our senior secured notes. In addition, any further decrease in the value of the peso may negatively affect the value of Mexican securities such as ours. In the past, the Mexican government has issued exchange control rules that, although not in effect today, may be enacted in the future. If so enacted, exchange control rules are likely to have an impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Developments in other countries may impact the price of our securities. We cannot assure you that the price of our securities will not be adversely affected by events elsewhere, especially in the United States and in emerging market countries. Mexican financial and securities markets are, to varying degrees, influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investor reaction to developments in one country has had and can have significant effects on the prices of securities of issuers in other countries, including Mexico. For example, each of the 1997 Asian economic crisis, the 1998 Russian debt moratorium and currency devaluation, the 1999 Brazilian currency devaluation and the 2001 Argentine debt default and currency devaluation triggered market volatility in Latin America. The economic slowdown in the United States, the military conflict in Iraq, the threat of terrorism and political and financial crises in certain emerging markets have had a significant negative impact on the financial and securities markets in many emerging market countries, including Mexico. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to different corporate disclosure and accounting standards than U.S. companies. A principal objective of the securities laws of the United States and Mexico is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information. However, there may be less publicly available information about foreign issuers of securities listed in the United States and of Mexican issuers in Mexico than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers of listed securities. In addition, we prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with Mexican GAAP. Mexican GAAP differs in significant respects from U.S. GAAP, including in the treatment of deferred income taxes, employees’ profit sharing accounting for retirement obligations, the capitalization of preoperating expenses and interest, the restructuring of troubled debt and the presentation of cash flow information. In particular, all Mexican companies must incorporate the effects of inflation directly in their accounting records and in published financial statements. We cannot assure you that these will be the only differences in the future. See note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the principal differences between Mexican GAAP and U.S. GAAP applicable to us. You may suffer a U.S. dollar shortfall if you obtain a judgment against us. In the event you are awarded a judgment from a Mexican court enforcing our U.S. dollar-denominated obligations under our senior secured notes, we will have the right to discharge our obligations by paying you in pesos at the exchange rate in effect on the date of payment of such judgment. The exchange rate is currently determined by the Central Bank of Mexico (Banco de México) every banking day in Mexico and published the following banking day in the Official Gazette of the Federation (Diario Oficial de la Federación). As a result of such currency conversion, you could face a shortfall in U.S. dollars. No separate actions exist or are enforceable in Mexico for compensation for any such shortfall. If we were to be declared bankrupt, holders of the senior secured notes may find it difficult to collect payment on the notes. Under the Mexican Bankruptcy Law (Ley de Concursos Mercantiles), if we or any of the guarantors of our senior secured notes were declared bankrupt (en quiebra) by a Mexican Court, or were to become subject to reorganization proceeding (concurso mercantil), our obligations under the notes and the applicable guarantor’s obligations under the guarantee of the senior secured notes: (i) would be converted into pesos at the exchange rate published by the Central Bank of Mexico prevailing at the time of the declaration of reorganization proceeding and then from pesos into Unidades de Inversión, or UDIs, inflation indexed units and would not be adjusted to take into account any devaluation of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar occurring after such conversion, (ii) would be subject to the outcome of, and priorities recognized in, the relevant proceedings, (iii) would be satisfied at the time claims of all of our creditors are satisfied after the relevant proceedings have been substantially advanced, (iv) would cease to accrue interest from the date a reorganization proceeding or bankruptcy is declared and, (v) would be subject to certain statutory preferences including tax, social security and labor claims and claims of secured creditors. High inflation rates in Mexico may decrease demand for our services while increasing our costs. In recent years, Mexico has experienced high levels of inflation relative to the United States, its main commercial partner. Mexico’s annual rate of inflation was 5.7% in 2002, 4.0% in 2003, 5.2% in 2004, 3.3% in 2005 and 4.1% in 2006. High inflation rates can adversely affect us as follows: • inflation can adversely affect consumer purchasing power, thereby adversely affecting consumer demand for our services and products; and • to the extent inflation exceeds our price increases, our prices and revenues will be adversely affected in real terms. High interest rates in Mexico could increase our financing costs. Mexico has, and is expected to continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates, relative to the United States, its main commercial partner. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities averaged, 7.1% in 2002, 6.2% in 2003, 6.8% in 2004, 9.2% in 2005 and 7.2% in 2006. Although we do not currently 17 Table of Contents have any peso-denominated indebtedness, if we need to incur such indebtedness in the future, it will likely be at high interest rates. 