Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of significant operating losses and may not be able to achieve sustained profitability if we are unable to increase revenue from our newer products and services and successfully implement a number of new initiatives, in which case we could experience an adverse change in the market price of our common stock. Over the last few years, the Company has significantly restructured its operations, expanded certain business lines and invested in systems and infrastructure. These investments, combined with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance costs and restructuring costs, have driven losses in each of our last three fiscal years. We have incurred net losses 15 Table of Contents of approximately $12.4 million, $8.7 million and $28.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $129.6 million. In order to achieve sustained profitability we will need to continue to implement changes to existing business processes, significantly reduce overhead expense and drive profitable revenue growth. The Company is re-engineering processes and systems to reduce our overhead, continue to improve our internal control management process and upgrade or replace certain critical business systems. If we are unable to achieve these objectives, we may fail to achieve or sustain profitability in subsequent periods, in which case the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our acquisition of Penn Foster and the integration of that business may be costly and difficult and may cause disruption to our business. In December 2009, we acquired Penn Foster Education Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The ultimate success of that acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from integrating that business into our existing business. However, the successful integration of independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of integrating businesses include among others: • integrating the newly acquired business into a uniform financial reporting system; • coordinating sales, distribution and marketing functions and strategies, including the integration of our products and services with those of Penn Foster; • establishing or expanding, sales, distribution and marketing functions in order to accommodate the newly acquired business or rationalizing these functions to take advantage of synergies; • preserving the important licensing, research and development, supply, distribution, marketing, customer and other relationships; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; and • coordinating geographically separate organizations. We may not accomplish the integration of the Penn Foster acquisition smoothly or successfully. The diversion of the attention of our management from current operations to integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could prevent us from realizing the full benefits anticipated to result from this acquisition and adversely affect our other businesses. Additionally, the costs associated with the integration can be substantial. To the extent that we incur integration costs that were not anticipated when we financed the acquisition, these unexpected costs could adversely impact our liquidity or force us to borrow additional funds. Our business has substantial indebtedness, which could, among other things, make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, require us to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to repay and service our debt or otherwise create liquidity problems, limit our flexibility to adjust to market conditions, place us at a competitive disadvantage and expose us to interest rate fluctuations. We currently have, and will likely continue to have, a substantial amount of indebtedness. Moreover, our ability to incur additional indebtedness is subject to restrictions under our outstanding loan agreements. Our substantial indebtedness could affect our future operations in important ways. For example, it could: • require us to use a large portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash available to finance our operations, capital expenditures or other business opportunities, including acquisitions and research and development projects; 16 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility to adjust to market conditions, leaving us vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and less able to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • expose us to fluctuations in the interest rate environment with respect to our indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. We cannot be certain that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If our cash flow and capital resources prove inadequate, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, restructure or refinance our debt, seek additional equity capital or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on acceptable terms or at all. Our loan agreements contain certain financial covenants that we may not satisfy which, if not satisfied, could result in the acceleration of the amounts due under these facilities and the limitation of our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. The agreements governing our indebtedness subject us to various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. These include covenants pertaining to capital expenditures, interest coverage ratios, leverage ratios and minimum cash requirements. If we violate any of these covenants, we may suffer a material adverse effect. Most notably, our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable, our lenders could proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness and our ability to borrow additional funds in the future may be limited. Adverse conditions in the global economy could adversely affect our revenues. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States and internationally have been experiencing extreme disruptions since 2008, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. The impact of these disruptions on our customers could result in a decrease in sales of our products and services. The Company is unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Should these economic conditions result in the Company not meeting its revenue growth objectives, the Company’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If colleges and universities reduce their reliance on standardized admissions tests, our business will be materially adversely affected. The success of our Test Preparation business depends on the continued use of standardized tests. If the use of standardized tests declines or falls out of favor with educational institutions or state and local governments, the markets for many of our products and services will deteriorate and our business will be materially adversely affected. Our contracts with schools, school districts, municipal agencies and other governmental bodies present several risks, including the timing of revenue recognition, which, combined with fixed expenses, puts a strain on our working capital requirements. As the Company has grown over the last several years, we have begun to enter into an increasing number of contracts with schools, school districts, municipal agencies, and other governmental bodies. These contracts present several types of risks and uncertainties. Many of our contracts with school districts are school-year 17 Table of Contents contracts subject to annual renewal at the option of the school district, and in many instances the school district can terminate or modify the contracts at their convenience. Any number of factors could cause a school district to terminate or fail to renew a contract or otherwise affect a school district’s willingness to contract with us, including budget cuts, negative publicity (whether or not the reason for such publicity is within our control) and changes in the composition of local school boards or changes in school district administration. Any termination or non-renewal of a contract with a school district could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and a termination or non-renewal caused by our failure to improve the poor academic performance of students enrolled in our programs could adversely affect our ability to secure contracts with other school districts. Additionally, the approval processes of some of our customers in this area, which are required for formal contract execution, are lengthy and cumbersome and, in many cases, are not completed prior to the time we begin performance. This means that we, at times, incur substantial costs prior to the formal execution of these agreements by the customer. The approval process can result in delayed revenue recognition and cash collection. While to date we have found that, following the award of the contract to us, final approval required for the customer to sign the agreement is usually a formality, our revenue recognition policies preclude us from recognizing revenue from these contracts until there is a final agreement binding on the customer. Costs, however, are recorded as incurred, whether or not the contract is signed. While we try not to incur significant costs until we are awarded a project and we do everything possible to expedite the formal execution of these agreements by the customer, the timing of this final step is outside our control. As we do not follow a school-based fiscal year our current calendar-based fiscal year makes it more difficult for us to forecast quarterly revenue streams from these contracts. This may make it more difficult for us to deliver operating results in line with analysts’ forecasts, and could therefore adversely affect our stock price. Because our customers are often unable to begin payment for services until formal execution of the agreement, this delay in formal contract execution may also cause our cash balances to fluctuate significantly from period to period and may expose us to credit risk. We believe that we may be able to recover monies owed from a customer for which we have performed services but who fails to render payment in the absence of a signed contract based on several legal theories designed to prevent unjust enrichment. However, this basis of recovery may not be available in all jurisdictions (or, if available, may be expensive to pursue) where we enter into these contracts, or may limit our recovery with respect to amounts or timing. Accordingly, the absence of a signed agreement may, depending on the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, make it substantially more difficult or impossible for us to receive payments for services provided. While we have not experienced a default by a customer under such circumstances to date, and believe that the nature of the parties with which we are contracting makes such a default less likely, it is a possibility that such circumstances may arise in the future with respect to one or more of these contracts. If we fail to comply with applicable state and federal regulations, we may face government sanctions and other adverse consequences. As a result of providing services funded by government programs, we are subject to increased state and federal regulation. Compliance with state and federal regulations can be costly and time consuming, and we cannot be sure that we will not encounter delays, expenses or other difficulties. Further, our failure to comply with these regulations could result in financial penalties, restrictions on our operations, reputational harm and decreased ability to secure contracts in other jurisdictions. We face intense competition that could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and market share. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive, and we expect increased competition in the future that could adversely affect our revenue, profitability and market share. Our current competitors include but are not limited to: • providers of live and online test preparation and tutoring services; • providers of online degree programs; 18 Table of Contents • companies that provide SES services; and • companies that provide print, software, web-based and other educational products and services. Some of our competitors may have more resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater resources than we can to the development, promotion and sale of their services and respond more quickly than we can to new technologies or changes in customer preferences. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position or otherwise compete effectively with current or future competitors, especially those with significantly greater resources. Negative developments in school funding or education laws could reduce our institutional revenue. We expect to continue to derive a portion of our revenue from sales of our products and services to educational institutions, including SES programs and college readiness offerings. Our ability to generate revenue from these sources may be adversely affected by decreased government funding of education. Public school funding is heavily dependent on support from federal, state and local governments and is sensitive to government budgets. In addition, the government appropriations process is often slow and unpredictable. Funding difficulties also could cause schools to be more resistant to price increases in our products, compared to other businesses that might be better able to pass on price increases to their customers. The SES market depends on federal, state, city and school district politics, all of which are in constant flux. In 2009 we experienced greater variability in school districts’ willingness to fully utilize funds allocated to SES programs, as well as greater competition from individual school districts that developed and offered internally developed SES programs. In addition, there is increased uncertainty about the future of NCLB and the concept of adequate yearly performance as a means of allocating Title I funding. As a result, we are carefully monitoring developments in the SES regulatory framework, and we will continue to evaluate the extent of our participation in this business. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. This may result in volatility or adversely affect our stock price. We experience, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue because some of the markets in which we operate are subject to seasonal fluctuations based on the scheduled dates for standardized admissions tests and the typical school year. These fluctuations could result in volatility or adversely affect our stock price. We typically generate the largest portion of our test preparation revenue in the third quarter. We typically generate the largest portion of our SES revenue in the first and fourth quarters. Our quarterly operating results are not indicative of future performance and are difficult to forecast. Our quarterly operating results may not meet expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. In addition to the seasonal fluctuations described above, our operating results may vary from quarter to quarter in response to a variety of other factors beyond our control, including: • our customers’ spending patterns, which, in some cases, are difficult to predict; • the timing of school districts’ funding sources and budget cycles; • the timing of signing, expirations and renewals of educational institution contracts; • variations in product mix; • the timing of corporate sponsorships and advertising; and • non-recurring charges incurred in connection with acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. 19 Table of Contents Due to these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be indicative of our future performance and you should not rely on them to predict the future performance of our stock price. In addition, our past results may not be indicative of future performance because several of our businesses were introduced, acquired or sold relatively recently. Loss of significant customers could significantly adversely affect our revenue or cause disruptions in our operations. The largest customer in our SES division accounted for 7% of our total revenue. The top two customers in the SES division collectively accounted for 53% of that division’s revenue in 2009. Accordingly, termination of either of these relationships could adversely affect our revenue and cause disruption in our operations. If we are not able to continually enhance our web-based products and services and adapt them to changes in technology, our future revenue growth could be adversely affected. If our improvement and adaptation of our web-based products and services are delayed, result in systems interruptions or are not aligned with market expectations or preferences, our revenue growth could be adversely affected. The online environment is rapidly evolving, and the technology used in web-based products changes quickly. We must therefore be able to quickly modify our solutions to adapt to emerging online standards and practices, technological advances, and changing user and sponsor preferences. Ongoing enhancement of our web site, web-based products and related technology will entail significant expense and technical risk. We may use new technologies ineffectively or fail to adapt our web site, web-based products and related technology on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we do not adequately protect the intellectual property rights to our products and services, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. Failure to protect our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our business. We depend on our ability to protect our brand, our products and services and the systems that deliver those products and services to our customers. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements, to protect these products. These intellectual property rights distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. If others are able to copy, use and market these products and delivery systems, then we may not be able to maintain our competitive position. Despite our best efforts, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights will not be infringed, violated or legally imitated. Existing laws do not provide complete protection and policing the unauthorized use of our products and services requires significant resources. If our products and services infringe the intellectual property rights of others, this may result in costly litigation or the loss of our own intellectual property rights, which could materially adversely affect our business. Competitors and others have claimed and may claim in the future that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. The defense of any lawsuit, whether with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly. If a lawsuit against us is successful, we may lose, or be limited in, the rights to offer our products and services. Any proceedings or claims of this type could materially adversely affect our business. We may be held liable for the content of materials that we author, content available on our web site or products sold through our web site. We may be subject to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the content of materials that we author, and content that is published on or downloaded from our web sites, accessible from our web sites through links to other web sites or posted by our users in chat rooms or bulletin boards. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as 20 Table of Contents well as print publications in the past. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type, such as trademark infringement or defamation, or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, these claims, with or without merit, would result in diversion of our management personnel and financial resources. Further, if print publications that we author contain material that customers find objectionable, these publications may have to be recalled, which could result in lost revenue and adverse publicity. Changes in our senior management or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees. In addition, over the past two years we have experienced a great deal of turnover within our finance and accounting department, and we will continue to experience turnover in connection with the planned relocation of most of our accounting operations to Scranton, Pennsylvania in connection with combining our finance and accounting department with that of Penn Foster. In addition, all of our executive officers are new to the Company since July 2007, and as a result the Company could experience instability from a lack of historical knowledge and familiarity with all aspects of the Company’s business and operations. Our business may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees that are outside our control. Less than 1% of our 2009 revenue was derived from royalties paid to us by our international franchisees and from sales of our course and marketing materials to these franchisees. If our franchisees do not successfully provide test preparation services in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, including failing to hire and train qualified managers or instructors or failing to abide by all applicable laws and regulations, our image and reputation may suffer and our revenue could decline. Moreover, since all of our franchisees are currently located outside the United States, we have limited ability to monitor the day to day operations of their businesses. While we ultimately can take action to terminate franchisees that do not comply with the standards contained in our franchise agreement, we may not be able to identify problems and take action quickly enough and, as a result, our image and reputation may suffer and our revenue could decline. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional capital on favorable terms. If we fail to raise additional funds, we may need to reduce our growth to a level that can be supported by our cash flow. In the future, we may require additional capital to finance ongoing operations or the growth of our business. To the extent that our existing sources of liquidity, cash flow from operations and anticipated credit line are insufficient to fund our activities, we may need to raise additional funds. The current disruptions in the financial markets in the United States and internationally have severely impacted liquidity and diminished credit availability and it may be difficult for the Company to obtain additional funds. In the event we are not successful in obtaining additional capital, we may not be able to: • further develop or enhance our services and products; • acquire necessary technologies, products or businesses; • expand operations in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; • market our services and products; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. Charges and other costs related to completed acquisitions could negatively affect our results of operations. An accounting standard relating to goodwill and other intangible assets requires goodwill and other intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life to be reviewed at least annually for impairment. To the extent 21 Table of Contents these assets are deemed to be impaired, they must be written down. Any future write down of goodwill, while non-cash, would adversely affect our operating results. As of December 31, 2009, we had goodwill of $186.5 million related to acquisitions. In connection with the acquisition of TSI, we may become obligated to pay Additional Consideration (as described under “Acquisitions and Dispositions” above). The final transaction value determination is to be made upon the earliest of (1) the date on which Alta sells the last of the Alta Shares, (2) the date on which the Company, by merger or otherwise, is sold in a transaction that results in a change in control of the Company as defined in the TSI Merger Agreement, or a sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, and (3) March 31, 2010. At such time, a final evaluation of the value of the Alta Shares will be made, and if the final per share value of such shares, plus $4.6 million in cash, is less than $36 million, a number of additional shares of Company common stock equal to the shortfall of such value below $36 million, calculated in accordance with the TSI Merger Agreement, shall be issued to Alta. We may also elect to pay any of the Additional Consideration in cash instead of issuing shares of Company common stock, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the TSI Merger Agreement. The maximum amount of Additional Consideration based on the calculation as of January 31, 2010 is approximately $9.9 million. We may engage in future acquisitions that could dilute the equity interest of our stockholders, increase our debt or cause us to assume contingent liabilities, all of which may have a detrimental effect on the price of our common stock. If any acquisitions are not successfully integrated with our business, our ongoing operations could be negatively affected. We may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. To facilitate future acquisitions, we may take actions that could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition, results of operations or the price of our common stock, including: • issuing equity securities or convertible debt securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incurring additional debt; or • assuming contingent liabilities. Acquisitions also entail numerous business risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; • negative effects on our reported results of operations from acquisition related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • the potential inability to retain and motivate key employees of acquired businesses. We may undertake divestitures that may limit our ability to manage and maintain our business and may adversely affect our business. We may undertake sales or other strategic dispositions or alternatives relating to certain businesses or operations to attempt to maximize stockholder value. These transactions involve a number of risks, including: • Diversion of management attention and transaction costs associated with negotiating and closing the transaction; • Inability to retain customers, management, key personnel and other employees due to the altered nature of our businesses after such transaction; 22 Table of Contents • Inability to realize the benefits of divestitures and collect monies owed to us; and • Failure to realize the highest value of the divested business because we are selling it before its full potential has been achieved. We could be liable for events that occur at facilities that we use to provide our services, and a liability claim against us could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. We could become liable for the actions of instructors and other personnel at the facilities we use to provide our classroom-based services. In the event of on-site accidents, injuries or other harm to students, we could face claims alleging that we were negligent, provided inadequate supervision or were otherwise liable for the injuries. Although we maintain liability insurance, this insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us fully from these claims. In addition, we may not be able to obtain liability insurance in the future at reasonable prices or at all. A successful liability claim could adversely affect our reputation and our financial results. Even if unsuccessful, such a claim could cause unfavorable publicity, entail substantial expense and divert the time and attention of key management personnel. If we experience system failures, our reputation may be harmed and users may seek alternate service providers causing us to lose revenue. If our primary and backup computer systems were to fail or be disrupted, our services could be interrupted and we may lose revenue and future business. We depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from floods, fires and power loss and similar events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of terrorism, vandalism and other misconduct and disruptions or delays occurring throughout the Internet network infrastructure. Although all of our material systems are redundant, short-term service interruptions may take place if our primary systems were to fail or be disrupted and we are forced to transition to backup systems. Accordingly, our online operations are dependent on our ability to maintain our systems in effective working order and to protect them from disruptive events. While most of our primary systems are located at professional data centers with redundancy for power, A/C and internet access, we do not have a formal disaster recovery plan, and our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to failures of or interruptions in our systems. Furthermore, we are upgrading many of our information technology systems. Any disruptions, delays or other failures resulting from that upgrade or the acts or omissions of our third party provider or certain systems operations could reduce our revenues, harm our reputation and cause us to incur substantial expense. In addition, the system failures of third party Internet service providers could produce interruptions in our service for those users who access our services through these third party providers. Service interruptions could reduce our revenue and our future revenue will be harmed if our users believe that our system is unreliable. If our systems are unable to accommodate a high volume of traffic on our web site, the growth of our revenue could be reduced or limited. If use of our web site infrastructure increases beyond our capacity, customers may experience delays and interruptions in service. As a result, they may seek the products and services of our competitors and the growth of our revenue could be reduced or limited. Because we seek to generate a high volume of traffic and accommodate a large number of customers on our web site, the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our web site, processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to serve our customers. If use of our web site continues to increase, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. While slower response times have not had a material effect on our results of operations to date, our web sites have in the past and may in the future experience slower response times due to increased traffic. 23 Table of Contents Future regulations or the interpretation of existing laws pertaining to the Internet could decrease the demand for our products or increase the cost of doing business. Any new law or regulation pertaining to the Internet, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, could increase our cost of doing business, decrease the demand for our products and services, or otherwise harm our business. We must comply with a variety of federal and state laws affecting the content of materials distributed over the Internet, as well as regulations and other laws restricting the collection, use and disclosure of personal information that we may obtain in the course of providing our online services. In particular, we must comply with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which, as implemented, mandates that we obtain verifiable, informed parental consent before we collect, use or disclose personal information from children under the age of 13. Future laws or regulations may relate to information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, consumer protection, online content, user privacy, taxation and the quality of products and services. Compliance with future laws and regulations, or existing laws as they may be interpreted in the future, could be expensive, time consuming, impractical or impossible. We may be liable for invasion of privacy or misappropriation by others of our users’ or students’ information, which could adversely affect our reputation and financial results. Some of our services require the disclosure of sensitive information by the user. We rely on a number of security systems for our services to protect this information from unauthorized use or access. If the security measures that we use to protect personal information or credit card information are ineffective, we may be subject to liability, including claims for invasion of privacy, impersonation, unauthorized purchases with credit card information or other similar claims. For example, as described in Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, a putative class action was filed against us, and additional litigation, regulatory proceedings and claims may be asserted against us by affected school districts or on behalf of students, in connection with the inadvertent disclosure on the Internet of personal information of a limited number of our students (the “Security Incident”). Although the putative class action litigation has been settled, we may be subject to other litigation or regulatory proceedings relating to the Security Incident. Regardless of their outcomes, these claims, litigation and proceedings would require us to devote substantial resources and time to defending them and could also materially harm our business and relationships with customers. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and several states have investigated the use of personal information by certain Internet companies. We could incur significant expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or in responding to investigations of privacy or security practices. Risks Related to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect our stockholders. Since our initial public offering in 2001, the market price of our common stock has been volatile, and it may continue to be volatile as a result of one or more of the following factors, most of which are beyond our control: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • loss of a major customer or failure to complete significant transactions; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • the discussion of our company or stock price in online investor communities such as chat rooms; • additions or departures of key personnel; • fluctuations in stock market price and volume; and • our continuing operating losses. 24 Table of Contents Securities class action lawsuits alleging fraud have often been filed against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. In the future, we may be the target of similar lawsuits. If a lawsuit were to be filed against us, it could result in substantial costs and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our financial results or result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our common stock could also harm employee morale and retention, our ability to attract qualified employees and our access to capital. We have anti-takeover protections, which may discourage or prevent a takeover of us, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for another company to acquire us, even if a takeover would benefit our stockholders. The provisions in our corporate documents: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares, making a takeover more difficult and expensive; • establish a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our stock option plans may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our control, which may depress the market price of our common stock. Certain rights granted to the holders of our Series E Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence significant corporate decisions and may hinder a change of control. Certain terms of our Series E Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence significant corporate decisions. For example, the holders of our Series E Preferred Stock: • are entitled to elect two directors to our Board of Directors; • can prevent our issuance of securities with equal or superior rights, preferences or privileges to those of the Series E Preferred Stock; • can prevent the payment of dividends; and • can prevent a change in control of our company. These rights (and all other rights and privileges relating to the Series E Preferred Stock) may adversely affect the value (or perceived value) of our shares of common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 