Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risks, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from anticipated future results. Any of these individual risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be compounded if multiple risks were to occur. We operate in an industry that is cyclical and that has periodically experienced significant year-to-year fluctuations in demand for vehicles; we also experience seasonal variations in demand for our products. The industries in which LVS and CVS operate have been characterized historically by periodic fluctuations in overall demand for trucks, passenger cars and other vehicles for which we supply products, resulting in corresponding fluctuations in demand for our products. The cyclical nature of the automotive industry cannot be predicted with certainty. Production and sales of the vehicles for which we supply products generally depend on economic conditions and a variety of other factors that are outside our control, including customer spending and preferences, labor relations and regulatory requirements. In particular, demand for CVS products can be affected by pre-buy before the effective date of new regulatory requirements, such as changes in emissions standards. Implementation of new, more stringent, emissions standards is scheduled for 2007 and 2010 in the U.S. and 2008 in Europe, and we believe that heavy-duty truck demand in these markets could increase prior to the effective dates of the new regulations, but is likely to fall in North America in 2007 after the new standards are implemented. LVS and CVS may also experience seasonal variations in the demand for products to the extent that automotive vehicle production fluctuates. Historically, for both segments, demand has been somewhat lower in the quarters ended September 30 and December 31, when OEM plants may close during model changeovers and vacation and holiday periods. We depend on large OEM customers. Both LVS and CVS are dependent upon large OEM customers with substantial bargaining power with respect to price and other commercial terms. Loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to any of our large volume customers for whatever reason (including, but not limited to, loss of market share by these customers, loss of contracts, insolvency of such customers, reduced or delayed customer requirements, plant shutdowns, strikes or other work stoppages affecting production by such customers), or continued reduction of prices to these customers, could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. There can be no assurance that we will not lose all or a portion of sales to our large volume customers, or that we will be able to offset continued reduction of prices to these customers with reductions in our costs. During fiscal year 2006, DaimlerChrysler AG (which owns Chrysler, Mercedes-Benz AG and Freightliner Corporation), a significant customer of LVS and CVS, accounted for approximately 18% of our total sales from continuing operations. In addition, sales to Volkswagen accounted for approximately 11% and sales to General Motors Corporation and Ford Motor Company each accounted for approximately 10% of our total sales from continuing operations. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our total sales from continuing operations in fiscal year 2006. These sales include pass-through components that are acquired and incorporated into our systems or modules at the customer’s request. The level of our sales to large OEM customers depends on their production and sales volumes. Several of our significant customers have major union contracts that expire and are subject to renegotiation over the next few years. Any strikes or other actions that affect our customers’ production during this process would also affect our sales. Further, to the extent that the financial condition, including bankruptcy, or market share of any of our largest customers deteriorates or their sales otherwise decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Each of ArvinMeritor's businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. LVS and CVS compete worldwide with a number of North American and international providers of components and systems, some of which are owned by or associated with some of our customers. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial resources or have established relationships with significant customers. In addition, certain OEMs manufacture for their own use products of the types we supply, and any future increase in this activity could displace LVS and CVS sales. 14 Many companies in the automotive industry have undertaken substantial contractual obligations to current and former employees, primarily with respect to pensions and other post-retirement benefits. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major competitor could result in that company’s eliminating or reducing some or all of these obligations, which could give that competitor a cost advantage over us. A disruption in supply or a significant increase in price of raw materials or parts could impact our production and increase our costs. We concentrate our purchases of certain raw materials and parts over a limited number of suppliers. Some of these suppliers are located in developing countries, and some have experienced weakening financial strength in recent years that resulted, for some companies, in filing for protection under the bankruptcy laws.We are dependent upon the ability of our suppliers to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. The inability of a supplier to meet these requirements, the loss of a significant supplier, or any labor issues or work stoppages at a significant supplier, could disrupt the supply of raw materials and parts to our facilities and could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, prices of raw materials, primarily steel and oil, for our business segments' manufacturing needs negatively impacted our operating income in fiscal year 2006. Although we have had some success in recovering a portion of higher steel prices from our customers, the price of steel, net of recoveries, continues to challenge our industry. We cannot predict the availability or price of steel in fiscal year 2007 and beyond. If steel supplies are inadequate for our needs, or if prices remain at current levels or increase and we are unable to either pass these prices to our customer base or otherwise mitigate the costs, our operating income could continue to be adversely affected. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations. A work stoppage at one or more of our manufacturing facilities could have material adverse effects on our business. In addition, if a significant customer were to experience a work stoppage, that customer could halt or limit purchases of our products, which could result in shutting down the related manufacturing facilities. Also, a significant disruption in the supply of a key component due to a work stoppage at one of our suppliers could result in shutting down manufacturing facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks. We have a significant amount of facilities and operations outside the United States, including investments and joint ventures in developing countries. These international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad, including, but not limited to: • risks with respect to currency exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • disruptions of capital and trading markets; • possible terrorist attacks or acts of aggression that could affect vehicle production or the availability of raw materials or supplies; • restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs); • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • import or export licensing requirements; • limitations on the repatriation of funds; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • nationalization; • the laws and policies of the United States affecting trade, foreign investment and loans; • tax laws; and • labor disruptions. There can be no assurance that these risks will not have a material adverse impact on our ability to increase or maintain our foreign sales or on our financial condition or results of operations. 15 Our liquidity, including our access to capital markets and financing, could be constrained by our credit ratings, our ability to comply with financial covenants in our debt instruments, and our suppliers extending normal trade credit terms on our purchases. Our corporate credit rating at Standard & Poor’s is BB and at Moody’s Investors Service is Ba2. Standard & Poor’s has our credit ratings on credit watch with a negative outlook. There are a number of factors, including our ability to achieve the intended benefits from our announced restructuring and other strategic activities on a timely basis, that could result in further lowering of our credit ratings. The rating agencies’ opinions about our creditworthiness may also be affected by their views of conditions in the automotive and trucking industry generally, including their views concerning the financial condition of our major OEM customers. If the credit rating agencies perceive further weakening in the industry, they could lower our ratings. Further declines in our ratings could reduce our access to capital markets, further increase our borrowing costs and result in lower trading prices for our securities. Our ability to borrow under our existing financing arrangements depends on our compliance with covenants in the related agreements, including covenants that require maintenance of certain financial ratios. To the extent that we are unable to maintain compliance with these requirements, due to one or more of the various risk factors discussed herein or otherwise, our ability to borrow, and our liquidity, would be adversely impacted. Our liquidity could also be adversely impacted if our suppliers were to suspend normal trade credit terms and require payment in advance or payment on delivery of purchases. If this were to occur, we would be dependent on other sources of financing to bridge the additional period between payment of our suppliers and receipt of payments from our customers. Our strategic initiatives may be unsuccessful, may take longer than anticipated, or may result in unanticipated costs. Our future strategic initiatives could include divestitures, acquisitions and restructurings. The success and timing of any future divestitures and acquisitions will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control. If we engage in acquisitions, we may finance these transactions by issuing additional debt or equity securities. The additional debt from any such acquisitions, if consummated, could increase our debt to capitalization ratio. In addition, the ultimate benefit of any acquisition would depend on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired entity or assets into our existing business and to achieve any projected synergies. We announced restructuring plans in fiscal year 2005 and in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, and we may undertake additional restructuring actions in the future. There is no assurance that the total costs and total cash costs associated with the current and any future restructuring will not exceed our estimates, or that we will be able to achieve the intended benefits of these restructurings. We are exposed to environmental, health and safety and product liabilities. Our business is subject to liabilities related to the outcome of litigation with respect to environmental and health and safety matters. In addition, we are required to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, and we could be held liable for damages arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental or natural resource damages. There is also an inherent risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims, as well as product recalls, in the automotive and commercial vehicle industry if our products fail to perform to specifications and are alleged to cause property damage, injury or death. With respect to environmental liabilities, we have been designated as a potentially responsible party at seven Superfund sites, and various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted against us alleging violations of federal, state and local environmental protection requirements or seeking remediation of alleged environmental impairments. We have established reserves for these liabilities, but the process of estimating environmental liabilities is complex and dependent on physical and scientific data at the site, uncertainties as to remedies and technologies to be used, and the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies. The actual amount of costs or damages for which we may be held responsible could materially exceed our current estimates because of a number of uncertainties that make it difficult to predict actual costs accurately. In future periods, new laws and regulations, changes in remediation plans, advances in technology and additional information about the ultimate clean-up remedy could significantly change our estimates, and management cannot assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements. We are exposed to asbestos litigation liability. One of our subsidiaries, Maremont Corporation, manufactured friction products containing asbestos from 1952 through 1977, when it sold its friction product business. We acquired Maremont in 1986. Maremont and many other companies are 16 defendants in suits brought by individuals claiming personal injuries as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing products. We, along with many other companies, have also been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos used in certain components of Rockwell products. Liability for these claims was transferred to us at the time of the spin-off of the automotive business to Meritor from Rockwell in 1997. The uncertainties of asbestos claim litigation and resolution of the litigation with insurance companies make it difficult to predict accurately the ultimate resolution of asbestos claims. The possibility of adverse rulings or new legislation affecting asbestos claim litigation or the settlement process increases that uncertainty. Although we have established reserves to address asbestos liability and corresponding recoveries from insurance companies, if the assumptions with respect to the nature or pending claims, the cost to resolve claims and the amount of available insurance prove to be incorrect, the actual amount of liability for asbestos-related claims, and the effect on us, could differ materially from our current estimates and, therefore, could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We are exposed to the rising cost of pension and other post-retirement benefits, and are currently involved in litigation the outcome of which could further increase these costs. The automotive and commercial vehicle industry, like other industries, continues to be impacted by the rising cost of pension and other post-retirement benefits. In estimating our expected obligations under the pension and post-retirement benefit plans, we make certain assumptions as to economic and demographic factors, such as discount rates, investment returns and health care cost trends. If actual experience as to these factors is worse than our assumptions, our obligations could increase. In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158), “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans – an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)”. This statement requires an entity to recognize the funded status of its defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, such as a retiree health care plan, on the balance sheet and to recognize changes in the funded status, that arise during the period but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost, within other comprehensive income, net of income taxes. SFAS 158 is effective for recognition of the funded status of the plans for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. When adopted, SFAS 158 will have an immediate adverse impact on the book value of our equity. To partially address the impact of rising post-retirement benefit costs, we amended certain retiree medical plans in fiscal years 2002 and 2004, to phase out current benefits by no later than fiscal year 2023, and to eliminate benefits for Medicare eligible retirees beginning in January 2006. Three separate class action lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan against us as a result of these amendments. The lawsuits allege that the changes breach the terms of various collective bargaining agreements entered into with the United Auto Workers (the UAW lawsuit) and the United Steel Workers (the USW lawsuit) at facilities that have either been closed or sold, and allege a companion claim restating these claims and seeking to bring them under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. On December 22, 2005, the court issued an order granting a motion by the United Auto Workers for a preliminary injunction. The order enjoined us from implementing the changes to retiree health benefits that had been scheduled to become effective on January 1, 2006, and ordered us to reinstate and resume paying the full cost of health benefits for the United Auto Workers retirees at the levels existing prior to the changes approved in 2002 and 2004. On August 17, 2006, the District Court granted a motion by the UAW for summary judgment; ordered the defendants to reimburse the plaintiffs for out-of-pocket expenses incurred since the date of the earlier modifications to benefits; and granted the UAW’s request to make the terms of the preliminary injunction permanent. Due to the uncertainty related to the UAW lawsuit and because the injunction has the impact of at least temporarily changing the benefits provided under the existing post-retirement medical plans, we have accounted for the injunction as a rescission of the 2002 and 2004 plan amendments that modified UAW retiree healthcare benefits. We recalculated the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, or APBO, as of December 22, 2005, which resulted in an increase in the APBO of $168 million. The increase in APBO will offset the remaining unamortized negative prior service cost of the 2002 and 2004 plan amendments and will increase retiree medical expense over the average remaining service period associated with the original plan amendments of approximately 10 years. In addition, the increase in APBO resulted in higher interest cost, a component of retiree medical expense. We began recording the impact of the injunction in March 2006, 90 days from the December 22, 2005 measurement date, which is consistent with the 90-day lag between our normal plan measurement date of June 30 and our fiscal year-end. In addition, the injunction required the defendants to reimburse the plaintiffs for out-of-pocket expenses incurred since the date of the earlier benefit modifications. We recorded a $5 million reserve at September 30, 2006 as the best estimate of our liability for these retroactive benefits. Including the estimated liability for retroactive benefits, the accounting for the injunction increased our retiree medical expense by approximately $17 million in fiscal year 2006. We have appealed the District Court’s order to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The ultimate outcome of the UAW lawsuit may result in future plan amendments. The impact of any future plan amendments cannot be currently estimated. 17 Based on management’s assessment of the USW lawsuit, the 2002 and 2004 plan amendments are still in effect for USW retirees. The ultimate outcome of the USW lawsuit may result in future plan amendments. The impact of any future plan amendments cannot be currently estimated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 