D. Risk factors. Risks Related to Us and Our Business Investments in biopharmaceutical companies are generally considered to be speculative. The prospects for companies operating in the biopharmaceutical industry may generally be considered to be uncertain, given the very nature of the industry and, accordingly, investments in biopharmaceutical companies should be considered to be speculative. We have a history of operating losses and we may never achieve or maintain operating profitability. Our product candidates remain at the development stage and we have incurred substantial expenses in our efforts to develop products. Consequently, we have incurred recurrent operating losses and, as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $43.0 million. Our operating losses have adversely impacted, and will continue to adversely impact, our working capital, total assets and shareholders’ equity. We do not expect to reach operating profitability in the immediate future, and our expenses are likely to increase as we continue to expand our research and development (“R&D”) and clinical study programs and our sales and marketing activities and seek regulatory approval for our product candidates. Even if we succeed in developing new commercial products, we expect to incur additional operating losses for at least the next several years. If we do not ultimately generate sufficient revenue from commercialized products and achieve or maintain operating profitability, an investment in our securities could result in a significant or total loss. We do not have the required regulatory approvals to market certain of our product candidates, and we do not know if we will ever receive such approvals. With the exception of Cetrotide® (cetrorelix) for the treatment of infertility, none of our product candidates has to date received regulatory approval for its intended commercial sale. We cannot market a pharmaceutical product in any jurisdiction until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and passed such jurisdiction’s extensive regulatory approval process. In general, significant research and development and clinical studies are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates before we can submit regulatory applications. Preparing, submitting and advancing applications for regulatory approval is complex, expensive and time-consuming and entails significant uncertainty. Even if a product candidate is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Canadian Therapeutic Products Directorate or any other regulatory authority, we may not obtain approval for an indication whose market is large enough to recoup our investment in that product candidate. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will ever obtain all or any required regulatory approvals for any of our product candidates. We are currently developing our product candidates based on R&D activities, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted to date, and we may not be successful in developing or introducing to the market these or any other new products or technology. If we fail to develop and deploy new products successfully and on a timely basis, we may become non-competitive and unable to recoup the R&D and other expenses we incur to develop and test new products. Our clinical trials may not yield results which will enable us to obtain regulatory approval for our products, and a setback in any of our clinical trials would likely cause a drop in our share price. We will only receive regulatory approval for a product candidate if we can demonstrate in carefully designed and conducted clinical trials that the product candidate is both safe and effective. We do not know whether our pending or any future clinical trials will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals or will result in marketable products. Unfavorable data from those studies could result in the withdrawal 4 of marketing approval for approved products or an extension of the review period for developmental products. Clinical trials are inherently lengthy, complex, expensive and uncertain processes. It typically takes many years to complete testing, and failure can occur at any stage of testing. Results attained in preclinical testing and early clinical studies, or trials, may not be indicative of results that are obtained in later studies. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier studies. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to repeat or redesign a trial or discontinue development of one or more of our product candidates. Further, actual results may vary once the final and quality-controlled verification of data and analyses has been completed. If we fail to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products under development, we will not be able to obtain the required regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates. Clinical trials are subject to continuing oversight by governmental regulatory authorities and institutional review boards and: · must meet the requirements of these authorities; · must meet requirements for informed consent; and · must meet requirements for good clinical practices. We may not be able to comply with these requirements in respect of one or more of our product candidates. In addition, we rely on third parties, including contract research organizations (“CROs”) and outside consultants, to assist us in managing and monitoring clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in completing, or in failing to complete, these trials if one or more third parties fails to perform with the speed and level of competence we expect. A failure in the development of any one of our programs or product candidates could have a negative impact on the development of the others. Setbacks in any phase of the clinical development of our product candidates would have an adverse financial impact (including with respect to any agreements and partnerships that may exist between us and other entities), could jeopardize regulatory approval and would likely cause a drop in our share price. If we encounter difficulties enrolling patients in our clinical trials, our trials could be delayed or otherwise adversely affected. Clinical trials for our product candidates require that we or third parties identify and enroll a specific number of patients. We or such third parties may not be able to enroll a sufficient number of patients to complete our clinical trials in a timely manner. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors including: · design of the protocol; · the size of the patient population; · eligibility criteria for the study in question; · perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study and of the control drug, if any; · availability of competing therapies already approved; · number of competing clinical trials ongoing in the same indication; · efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials; · patient referral practices of physicians; and · availability of clinical trial sites. 5 If we or any third party have difficulty enrolling a sufficient number of patients to conduct our clinical trials as planned, we may need to delay or terminate ongoing clinical trials. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we will be subject to stringent ongoing government regulation. Even if regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates, the manufacture, marketing and sale of such products will be subject to strict and ongoing regulation. Compliance with such regulation will be expensive and consume substantial financial and management resources. For example, an approval for a product may be conditioned on our agreement to conduct costly post-marketing follow-up studies to monitor the safety or efficacy of the products. In addition, as a clinical experience with a drug expands after approval because the drug is used by a greater number and more diverse group of patients than during clinical trials, side effects or other problems may be observed after approval that were not observed or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. In such a case, a regulatory authority could restrict the indications for which the product may be sold or revoke the product’s regulatory approval. We, and our contract manufacturers, will be required to comply with applicable current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) regulations for the manufacture of our products. These regulations include requirements relating to quality assurance, as well as the corresponding maintenance of rigorous records and documentation. Manufacturing facilities must be approved before we can use them in the commercial manufacturing of our products and are subject to subsequent periodic inspection by regulatory authorities. In addition, material changes in the methods of manufacturing or changes in the suppliers of raw materials are subject to further regulatory review and approval. If we, or any future marketing collaborators or contract manufacturers, fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to sanctions including fines, product recalls or seizures and related publicity requirements, injunctions, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, suspension or withdrawals of previously granted regulatory approvals, warning or untitled letters, refusal to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new products or of supplements to approved applications, import or export bans or restrictions, and criminal prosecution and penalties. Any of these penalties could delay or prevent the promotion, marketing or sale of our products. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may be unable to generate significant revenues. Even if our products are approved for commercialization, they may not be successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of any of our products will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety; · the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; · limitations or warning contained in the product’s approved labeling; · availability of alternative treatments for the indications we target; · the advantages and disadvantages of our products relative to current or alternative treatments; · the availability of acceptable pricing and adequate third-party reimbursement; and · the effectiveness of marketing and distribution methods for the products. If our products do not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers and others in the medical community which may not accept or utilize our products, our ability to generate significant revenues from our products would be limited and our financial conditions will be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to further penetrate our core markets and existing geographic markets or successfully expand our business into new markets, the growth in sales of our products, along with our operating results, could be negatively impacted. 6 Our ability to further penetrate our core markets and existing geographic markets in which we compete or to successfully expand our business into additional countries in Europe, Asia or elsewhere is subject to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our products, if successfully developed, may compete with a number of drugs and therapies currently manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical and other biotechnology companies. Our products may also compete with new products currently under development by others or with products which may be less expensive than our products. We cannot assure you that our efforts to increase market penetration in our core markets and existing geographic markets will be successful. Our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our operating results and would likely cause a drop in our share price. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time-frames we announce and expect. We set goals and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement, enrollment and completion of clinical trials, anticipated regulatory submission and approval dates and time of product launch. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. There can be no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, our share price would likely decline. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement for our products, our ability to generate revenues will be diminished. The ability for us and/or our partners to successfully commercialize our products will depend significantly on our ability to obtain acceptable prices and the availability of reimbursement to the patient from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. These third-party payers frequently require companies to provide predetermined discounts from list prices, and they are increasingly challenging the prices charged for pharmaceuticals and other medical products. Our products may not be considered cost-effective, and reimbursement to the patient may not be available or sufficient to allow us or our partners to sell our products on a competitive basis. It may not be possible to negotiate favorable reimbursement rates for our products. In addition, the continuing efforts of third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means may limit our commercial opportunity and reduce any associated revenue and profits. We expect proposals to implement similar government control to continue. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we or any current or potential collaborators could receive for any of our products and could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, in the U.S.A., in Canada and in many other countries, pricing and/or profitability of some or all prescription pharmaceuticals and biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. If we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our products, the sales of our products would be adversely affected or there may be no commercially viable market for our products. Competition in our targeted markets is intense, and development by other companies could render our products or technologies non-competitive. The biomedical field is highly competitive. New products developed by other companies in the industry could render our products or technologies non-competitive. Competitors are developing and testing products and technologies that would compete with the products that we are developing. Some of these products may be more effective or have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired effect than our products. We expect competition from biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical companies and academic research institutions to increase over time. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Our competitors may succeed in developing products earlier and in obtaining regulatory approvals and patent protection for such products more rapidly than we can or at a lower price. 7 We may not obtain adequate protection for our products through our intellectual property. We rely heavily on our proprietary information in developing and manufacturing our product candidates. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our competitive position through patents, trade secrets, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical firms, including Æterna Zentaris, are uncertain and involve complex questions of law and fact for which important legal issues remain unresolved. Applications for patents and trademarks in Canada, the U.S.A. and in other foreign territories have been filed and are being actively pursued by us. Pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents and we may not be able to obtain additional issued patents relating to our technology or products. Even if issued, patents to us or our licensors may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, held to be unenforceable or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The patents issued or to be issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantage or protect us against competitors with similar technology. In addition, it is possible that third parties with products that are very similar to ours will circumvent our patents by means of alternate designs or processes. We may have to rely on method of use and new formulation protection for our compounds in development, and any resulting products, which may not confer the same protection as claims to compounds per se. In addition, our patents may be challenged by third parties in patent litigation, which is becoming widespread in the biopharmaceutical industry. There may be prior art of which we are not aware that may affect the validity or enforceability of a patent claim. There also may be prior art of which we are aware, but which we do not believe affects the validity or enforceability of a claim, which may, nonetheless, ultimately be found to affect the validity or enforceability of a claim. No assurance can be given that our patents would, if challenged, be held by a court to be valid or enforceable or that a competitor’s technology or product would be found by a court to infringe our patents. Our granted patents could also be challenged and revoked in opposition or nullity proceedings in certain countries outside the U.S.A. In addition, we may be required to disclaim part of the term of certain patents. Patent applications relating to or affecting our business have been filed by a number of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies and academic institutions. A number of the technologies in these applications or patents may conflict with our technologies, patents or patent applications, and such conflict could reduce the scope of patent protection which we could otherwise obtain. Because patent applications in the United States and many other jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after their first effective filing date, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our or their issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. If a third party has also filed a U.S. patent application covering our product candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in an adversarial proceeding, known as an interference, declared by the U.S. Patent Office to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial and it is possible that our efforts could be unsuccessful, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. We seek to protect our unpatented proprietary information in part by requiring our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the agreements provide that all of the technology which is conceived by the individual during the course of employment is our exclusive property. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. In addition, it is possible that third parties could independently develop proprietary information and techniques substantially similar to ours or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know- 8 how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products and technologies, which could adversely impact our business. We currently have the right to use certain technology under license agreements with third parties. Our failure to comply with the requirements of material license agreements could result in the termination of such agreements, which could cause us to terminate the related development program and cause a complete loss of our investment in that program. As a result of the foregoing factors, we may not be able to rely on our intellectual property to protect our products in the marketplace. We may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. There could be issued patents of which we are not aware that our products or methods may be found to infringe, or patents of which we are aware and believe we do not infringe but which we may ultimately be found to infringe. Moreover, patent applications and their underlying discoveries are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our products or methods are found to infringe. Moreover, there may be published pending applications that do not currently include a claim covering our products or methods but which nonetheless provide support for a later drafted claim that, if issued, our products or methods could be found to infringe. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business. Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be accused of infringing one or more claims of an issued patent or may fall within the scope of one or more claims in a published patent application that may subsequently issue and to which we do not hold a license or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents or patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. The biopharmaceutical industry has produced a proliferation of patents, and it is not always clear to industry participants, including us, which patents cover various types of products. The coverage of patents is subject to interpretation by the courts, and the interpretation is not always uniform. In the event of infringement or violation of another party’s patent, we may not be able to enter into licensing arrangements or make other arrangements at a reasonable cost. Any inability to secure licenses or alternative technology could result in delays in the introduction of our products or lead to prohibition of the manufacture or sale of products by us or our partners and collaborators. Patent litigation is costly and time consuming and may subject us to liabilities. Our involvement in any patent litigation, interference, opposition or other administrative proceedings will likely cause us to incur substantial expenses, and the efforts of our technical and management personnel will be significantly diverted. In addition, an adverse determination in litigation could subject us to significant liabilities. We may not obtain trademark registrations. We have filed applications for trademark registrations in connection with our product candidates in various jurisdictions, including the U.S.A. We intend to file further applications for other possible trademarks for our product candidates. No assurance can be given that any of our trademark applications will be registered in the U.S.A. or elsewhere, or that the use of any registered or unregistered trademarks will confer a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Furthermore, even if we are successful in our trademark registrations, the FDA and regulatory authorities in other countries have their own process for drug nomenclature and their own views concerning appropriate proprietary names. The FDA and other regulatory authorities also have the power, even after granting 9 market approval, to request a company to reconsider the name for a product because of evidence of confusion in the marketplace. No assurance can be given that the FDA or any other regulatory authority will approve of any of our trademarks or will not request reconsideration of one of our trademarks at some time in the future. The loss, abandonment, or cancellation of any of our trademarks or trademark applications could negatively affect the success of the product candidates to which they relate. We may require significant additional financing, and we may not have access to sufficient capital. We may require additional capital to pursue planned clinical trials, regulatory approvals, as well as further R&D and marketing efforts for our product candidates and potential products. Except as expressly described in this annual report, we do not anticipate generating significant revenues from operations in the near future, and we have no other committed sources of capital. We may attempt to raise additional funds through public or private financings, collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies or financing from other sources. Additional funding may not be available on terms which are acceptable to us. If adequate funding is not available on reasonable terms, we may need to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our product development programs or obtain funds on terms less favorable than we would otherwise accept. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity securities or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, the issuance of those securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. Moreover, the incurrence of debt financing could result in a substantial portion of our future operating cash flow, if any, being dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness and could impose restrictions on our operations. This could render us more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns. We anticipate that our existing working capital, including anticipated revenues, will be sufficient to fund our development programs, clinical trials and other operating expenses for the foreseeable future. However, our future capital requirements are substantial and may increase beyond our current expectations depending on many factors including: · the duration and results of our clinical trials for cetrorelix, ozarelix and perifosine, as well as other product candidates going forward; · unexpected delays or developments in seeking regulatory approvals; · the time and cost in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · other unexpected developments encountered in implementing our business development and commercialization strategies; · the outcome of litigation, if any; and · further arrangements, if any, with collaborators. Our revenues and expenses may fluctuate significantly, and any failure to meet financial expectations may disappoint securities analysts or investors and result in a decline in our share price. We have a history of operating losses. Our revenues and expenses have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our share price to decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues and expenses to fluctuate include but are not limited to: · the inability to complete product development in a timely manner that results in a failure or delay in receiving the required regulatory approvals to commercialize our product candidates; · the timing of regulatory submissions and approvals; 10 · the timing and willingness of any current or future collaborators to invest the resources necessary to commercialize our product candidates; · the revenue available from royalties derived from our strategic partners; · licensing fees revenues; · tax credits and grants (R&D); · the outcome of litigation, if any; · changes in foreign currency fluctuations; · the timing of achievement and the receipt of milestone payments from current or future collaborators; and · failure to enter into new or the expiration or termination of current agreements with collaborators. Due to fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not indicative of our future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter or quarters, our revenues and expenses will be above or below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. In this case, our share price could fluctuate significantly or decline. We will not be able to successfully commercialize our product candidates if we are unable to make adequate arrangements with third parties for such purposes. We currently have a lean sales and marketing staff. In order to commercialize our product candidates successfully, we need to make arrangements with third parties to perform some or all of these services in certain territories. We contract with third parties for the sales and marketing of our products. Our revenues will depend upon the efforts of these third parties, whose efforts may not be successful. If we fail to establish successful marketing and sales capabilities or to make arrangements with third parties for such purposes, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. If we had to resort to developing a sales force internally, the cost of establishing and maintaining a sales force would be substantial and may exceed its cost effectiveness. In addition, in marketing our products, we would likely compete with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Despite our marketing and sales efforts, we may be unable to compete successfully against these companies. We are currently dependent on strategic partners and may enter into future collaborations for the research, development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our arrangements with these strategic partners may not provide us with the benefits we expect and may expose us to a number of risks. We are dependent on, and rely upon, strategic partners to perform various functions related to our business, including, but not limited to, the research, development and commercialization of some of our product candidates. Our reliance on these relationships poses a number of risks. We may not realize the contemplated benefits of such agreements nor can we be certain that any of these parties will fulfill their obligations in a manner which maximizes our revenue. These arrangements may also require us to transfer certain material rights or issue our equity securities to corporate partners, licensees and others. Any license or sublicense of our commercial rights may reduce our product revenue. These agreements also create certain risks. The occurrence of any of the following or other events may delay product development or impair commercialization of our products: · not all of our strategic partners are contractually prohibited from developing or commercializing, either 11 alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with our product candidates, and, with respect to our strategic partnership agreements that do contain such contractual prohibitions or restrictions, prohibitions or restrictions do not always apply to our partners’ affiliates and they may elect to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with other parties, including our competitors, whose technologies or products may be competitive with ours; · our strategic partners may under-fund or fail to commit sufficient resources to marketing, distribution or other development of our products; · we may not be able to renew such agreements; · our strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend certain intellectual property rights that may be important to the commercialization of our products; · our strategic partners may encounter conflicts of interest, changes in business strategy or other issues which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us (for example, pharmaceutical companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in this industry); · delays in, or failures to achieve, scale-up to commercial quantities, or changes to current raw material suppliers or product manufacturers (whether the change is attributable to us or the supplier or manufacturer) could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our product candidates; and · disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that could result in the delay or termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, resulting in litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive, or causing our strategic partners to act in their own self-interest and not in our interest or those of our shareholders or other stakeholders. In addition, our strategic partners can terminate our agreements with them for a number of reasons based on the terms of the individual agreements that we have entered into with them. If one or more of these agreements were to be terminated, we would be required to devote additional resources to developing and commercializing our product candidates, seek a new partner or abandon this product candidate which would likely cause a drop in our share price. We have entered into important strategic partnership agreements relating to cetrorelix, ozarelix, perifosine and AEZS-130. Detailed information on our research and collaboration agreements is available in Note 24 of our annual audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, included elsewhere in this annual report. We have also entered into a variety of collaborative licensing agreements with various universities and institutes under which we are obligated to support some of the research expenses incurred by the university laboratories and pay royalties on future sales of the products. In turn, we have retained exclusive rights for the worldwide exploitation of results generated during the collaborations. In particular, we have entered into an agreement with Tulane University (“Tulane”), which provides for the payment by us of single-digit royalties on future worldwide net sales for all indications, except in the BPH indication, where it provides the payment of low single-digit royalties. Tulane is also entitled to receive a low double-digit royalty on any lump sum, periodic or other cash payments received by us from sub-licensees. We rely on third parties to conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We rely on third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct, supervise and monitor our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Our reliance on these third parties, however, does not relieve us 12 of our regulatory responsibilities, including ensuring that our clinical trials are conducted in accordance with cGCP guidelines and the investigational plan and protocols contained in an Investigational New Drug application (“IND”), or comparable foreign regulatory submission. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. In addition, they may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our preclinical studies or clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for, and commercialize, our product candidates may be delayed or prevented. In carrying out our operations, we are dependent on a stable and consistent supply of ingredients and raw materials. There can be no assurance that we, our contract manufacturers, or partners, will be able, in the future, to continue to purchase products from our current suppliers or any other supplier on terms similar to current terms or at all. An interruption in the availability of certain raw materials or ingredients, or significant increases in the prices paid by us for them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and operating results. We are subject to intense competition for our skilled personnel, and the loss of key personnel or the inability to attract additional personnel could impair our ability to conduct our operations. We are highly dependent on our management and our clinical, regulatory and scientific staff, the loss of whose services might adversely impact our ability to achieve our objectives. Recruiting and retaining qualified management and clinical, scientific and regulatory personnel is critical to our success. Competition for skilled personnel is intense, and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel may be affected by such competition. Our strategic partners’ manufacturing capabilities may not be adequate to effectively commercialize our product candidates. Our manufacturing experience to date with respect to our product candidates consists of producing drug substance for clinical studies. To be successful, these product candidates have to be manufactured in commercial quantities in compliance with regulatory requirements and at acceptable costs. Our strategic partners’ current manufacturing facilities have the capacity to produce projected product requirements for the foreseeable future, but we will need to increase capacity if sales continue to grow. Our strategic partners may not be able to expand capacity or to produce additional product requirements on favorable terms. Moreover, delays associated with securing additional manufacturing capacity may reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business and financial position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet increased demand over time. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims, for which we may not have or be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage. The sale and use of our products, in particular our biopharmaceutical products, involve the risk of product liability claims and associated adverse publicity. Our risks relate to human participants in our clinical trials, who may suffer unintended consequences, as well as products on the market whereby claims might be made directly by patients, healthcare providers or pharmaceutical companies or others selling, buying or using our products. We manage our liability risks by means of insurance. We maintain liability insurance covering our liability for our preclinical and clinical studies and for our pharmaceutical products already marketed. However, we may not have or be able to obtain or maintain sufficient and affordable insurance coverage, including coverage for potentially very significant legal expenses, and without sufficient coverage any claim brought against us could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials which requires us to comply with environmental and occupational safety laws regulating the use of such materials. If we violate these laws, we could be subject to significant fines, liabilities, or other adverse consequences. Our discovery and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials. We are subject to federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, 13 handling and disposal of such materials and certain waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident or a failure to comply with environmental or occupational safety laws, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. We may not be adequately insured against this type of liability. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future, and our operations, business or assets may be materially adversely affected by current or future environmental laws or regulations. Legislative actions, new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Changes in financial accounting standards or implementation of accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue or expense fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with greater frequency and are expected to occur in the future, and we may make or be required to make changes in our accounting policies in the future. Compliance with changing regulations of corporate governance and public disclosure, notably with respect to internal controls over financial reporting, may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours, and insurance costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty. We may incur losses associated with foreign currency fluctuations. Our operations are in many instances conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (principally Euros) and we hold a significant portion of our cash, cash equivalents and debt in other currencies (principally Canadian dollars), and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the Canadian dollar could cause us to incur currency exchange losses. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses. Future acquisitions may not be successfully integrated. The failure to successfully integrate the personnel and operations of businesses which we may acquire in the future with ours could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results. Risks Related to Our Shares Our share price is volatile, which may result from factors outside of our control. If we experience low trading volume or if our securities are delisted from the TSX or NASDAQ, you may have difficulty selling your shares. During 2007, the closing price of our shares ranged from C$1.47 to C$5.10 per share on the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”), and from $1.46 to $4.36 on the NASDAQ Global Market (“NASDAQ”). Our share price may be affected by developments directly affecting our business and by developments out of our control or unrelated to us. The biopharmaceutical sector in particular, and the stock market generally, are vulnerable to abrupt changes in investor sentiment. Prices of shares and trading volume of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry can swing dramatically in ways unrelated to, or that bear a disproportionate relationship to, operating performance. Our share price and trading volume may fluctuate based on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · clinical and regulatory developments regarding our product candidates; · delays in our anticipated development or commercialization timelines; · developments regarding current or future third-party collaborators; · other announcements by us regarding technological, product development or other matters; · arrivals or departures of key personnel; · government regulatory action affecting our product candidates and our competitors’ products in the U.S.A., Canada and other countries; 14 · developments or disputes concerning patent or proprietary rights; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenues or expenses; · general market conditions and fluctuations for the emerging growth and biopharmaceutical market sectors; and · economic conditions in the U.S.A., Canada or abroad. Our listing on both the TSX and NASDAQ may increase price volatility due to various factors including: different ability to buy or sell our shares; different market conditions in different capital markets; and different trading volume. In addition, low trading volume may increase the price volatility of our shares. A thin trading market could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. In the past, following periods of large price declines in the public market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would adversely affect our business. Any adverse determination in litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. We must meet continuing listing requirements to maintain the listing of our shares on the TSX and NASDAQ. For continued listing, NASDAQ requires, among other things, that listed securities maintain a minimum closing bid price of not less than $1.00 per share. Our shares have recently closed below the $1.00 per share minimum for several consecutive days on the NASDAQ. If the closing bid price falls below the $1.00 minimum for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we will have 180 days to satisfy the $1.00 minimum bid price, which must be maintained for a period of at least ten trading days in order to regain compliance. If our shares continue to close below $1.00 per share during the initial 180 day period following a notice of noncompliance from NASDAQ, we could transfer from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. Transferring from the NASDAQ Global Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market would provide us with an additional 180-day calendar day compliance period to regain compliance with the NASDAQ minimum bid price rule. If our shares were delisted from TSX or NASDAQ, you may have difficulty in disposing of your shares. Our largest shareholders have influence over our business and corporate matters, including those requiring shareholder approval. This could delay or prevent a change in control. Sales of common shares by such shareholders could have an impact on our share price. Our two largest shareholders, which held 18.65% and 16.57% of our outstanding shares as of December 31, 2007, have influence over our business and corporate matters, including those requiring shareholder approval. This could delay or prevent a change in control. Sales of common shares by such shareholders could have an impact on our share price. We do not intend to pay dividends in the near future. To date, we have not declared or paid any dividends on our common shares. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance further research and the expansion of our business. As a result, the return on an investment in our shares will, for the foreseeable future, depend upon any future appreciation in value. There is no guarantee that our shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders have purchased their shares. 