D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our cellular businesses face competition from China Mobile Limited, or China Mobile, China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, and China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom. Such competition may intensify and result in slower subscriber growth, lower tariffs and higher customer acquisition costs for us, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our cellular businesses face intense competition from China Mobile. China Mobile is the largest cellular operator in China and has competitive advantages over us in areas such as customer base, financial resources and brand recognition. We have been experiencing intense competition from China Mobile in our cellular service areas, and such competition may continue and even intensify. In particular, continued price competition between China Mobile and us, such as increased offerings of package service plans with “calling-party-pays” features and/or decreased roaming charges, may accelerate the decline of the average revenue per user per month, or ARPU, of our cellular services, and adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, China Mobile has announced its intention to launch 3G cellular services in the future, which could further intensify the competition with our cellular businesses. Our cellular services also compete with the local wireless telecommunications services offered by China Telecom and China Netcom in their respective service areas, known as “Little Smart” services, which are based on their fixed line networks and primarily utilize the personal handy-phone system, or PHS, technology. “Little Smart” services are offered as extensions of fixed line services and, with such features as calling-party-pays arrangements, carry significantly lower tariffs than cellular services. Currently these services have attracted over 90 million users in China and their subscriber base is continuing to grow. In addition, both China Telecom and China Netcom have announced their intention to develop 3G cellular services in the future, which would impose a more direct competition with our cellular business. Increased competition from China Mobile, China Telecom and China Netcom could lead to slower subscriber growth, lower traffic volume of our cellular services, continued price pressure and higher customer acquisition costs, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our CDMA services may remain in a relatively disadvantageous market position as compared to GSM services in China. We are the only cellular operator offering CDMA services in China. The majority of cellular subscribers in China today are subscribers to services based on the global system for mobile communications, or GSM. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately 36.5 million CDMA subscribers, while there were over 400 million cellular subscribers in China as of December 31, 2006. CDMA cellular services compete with GSM services for cellular subscribers, who may be reluctant to switch to CDMA cellular services because of the need to obtain a new CDMA handset and a new phone number. CDMA services are also perceived to have limitations in international roaming due to the lack of CDMA networks in many countries. In addition, CDMA handsets are generally more expensive than GSM handsets and are not compatible with GSM networks. As a result of the smaller subscriber base, the overall size of the supply chain for CDMA cellular services in China is significantly smaller than the supply chain for GSM cellular services. 5 Table of Contents Whether our CDMA services can gain a more favorable market position will continue to be subject to a number of uncertainties, including, among others: • whether we can effectively retain our existing subscribers and attract sufficient new CDMA cellular subscribers; • whether we can effectively maintain and/or improve the ARPU of our CDMA; • whether we can effectively utilize our CDMA marketing expenses to accelerate the revenue growth of our CDMA business; • whether we can generate more revenues from value-added services by capitalizing on the technological advantages of CDMA 1X wireless data services; and • whether we can enhance the market image of our CDMA services among cellular users in China. Any of these uncertainties may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our CDMA cellular services and consequently our financial condition and results of operation. Our CDMA and GSM businesses compete with each other in certain areas, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of these businesses. To implement differentiated and dedicated management of our CDMA and GSM businesses, we recently segregated the sales and marketing functions of these two businesses, which may require (i) more delineated allocation of resources in personnel, management, finance and information technology, among others and (ii) more management coordination at both headquarter and branch levels. However, we may not be able to achieve favorable results from the implementation of our segregation of the sales and marketing functions of our CDMA and GSM businesses. In addition, the competition between the two businesses for our internal resources as well as external cellular subscribers may not lead to overall better results of our operations. If we cannot coordinate the development of our CDMA and GSM services effectively, or obtain adequate resources for both our GSM and CDMA cellular services, the growth and profitability of these businesses and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. Failure to continually optimize, expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure or changes in telecommunications technology and technological standards could adversely affect our competitive position and hinder our growth. The growth of our businesses depends on whether we are able to continue to optimize and expand the coverage and capacity of our networks, to upgrade the technology and to improve the quality of our networks in a timely and effective manner. We also need to continue to improve the quality of our existing networks in order to enhance our telecommunications services. In addition, the telecommunications industry in China and elsewhere in the world is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and technological standards, including the technology migration to 3G. Such changes may render our networks and systems inadequate or obsolete. As a result of such changes, we may need to make significant changes and upgrades to our existing networks and infrastructure or construct new networks and infrastructure, which may require substantial capital expenditures and other resources. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to achieve the following on a timely basis and on acceptable terms: • obtain adequate financing; • obtain relevant government licenses, permits and approvals; • manage the technology migration in an effective manner; • obtain adequate network equipment and software; • retain experienced management and technical personnel; • obtain sufficient spectrum frequencies, network numbers and other telecommunications resources controlled by the PRC government; • gain access to the sites for network construction or upgrade; and • enter into interconnection and other arrangements with other operators. If we are not able to timely and effectively overcome these uncertainties and other difficulties we may encounter in expanding and upgrading our networks and infrastructure, our competitive position, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. The CDMA handset promotional packages have increased our costs and expenses and may adversely affect our profitability. In order to accelerate the development of our CDMA business and subscriber growth, we have offered CDMA handset promotional packages. Under those arrangements, CDMA handsets were provided to subscribers for their use at no additional cost to them during the specified contract periods as long as such subscribers agreed to incur a minimum amount of service fees during the contract period. The maximum contract period is two years. The cost of the handsets provided to subscribers under these contractual arrangements, treated as deferred customer acquisition costs, was deferred, to the extent recoverable, and amortized over the contractual period during which we expect to receive the minimum contract revenue. Therefore, these promotional packages tend to increase our costs and expenses. While we have significantly reduced the use of such CDMA handset promotional packages in recent years, the carrying amount of the deferred customer acquisition costs has been gradually reduced but remained sizeable. For the year ended December 31, 2006, amortization of such deferred customer acquisition costs was approximately RMB4.21 billion and the carrying amount of such costs amounted to RMB2.10 billion as of December 31, 2006. As a result, while the use of these CDMA promotional packages has accelerated the growth of our CDMA business, it may adversely affect the profitability of our CDMA business and our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, upon expiration of the contract period of these CDMA handset promotional packages, some subscribers did not renew their contracts and switched to cheaper service plan packages or subscribed to our competitors’ cellular services, which contributed to the decrease of ARPU and the increase of the churn rate of our CDMA business in 2006. Such effects, if they continue, may adversely affect the profitability of our CDMA business and our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents In order to control the costs of our CDMA promotional packages, we adopted a policy to centralize the purchases of CDMA handsets since 2005. This centralized purchasing policy has resulted in our maintaining inventory of CDMA handsets that is subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. As of December 31, 2006, we maintained an inventory of CDMA handsets of RMB1.35 billion. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditure and debt service requirements, our financial condition and growth prospects will be adversely affected. We continue to have a significant level of capital expenditure and debt service requirements. We plan to spend approximately RMB26.00 billion for capital expenditure in 2007, an increase of 20.6% from 2006. As of December 31, 2006, the sum of our long-term and short-term interest bearing debt exceeded the amount of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits by RMB13.27 billion. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 5. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain future financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial condition, competitive position and growth prospects. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including, among others: • our financial condition and results of operations; • our creditworthiness and relationship with lenders; • the condition of the economy and the telecommunications industry in China; • conditions in relevant financial markets in China and elsewhere in the world; and • our ability to obtain any required government approvals for our financings. Our long distance, data and Internet businesses remain small compared to China Telecom or China Netcom, and competition from China Telecom, China Netcom and other telecommunications service providers may adversely affect our profitability and growth in these businesses. The fixed line operators of China Telecom and China Netcom currently hold the strongest market position in the public switched long distance telephony, or PSTN, and data services markets in their respective service areas. They are also the leading providers of Internet protocol telephony, or IP telephony, and Internet access services in China. China Telecom and China Netcom have competitive advantages over us in areas such as customer base, financial resources, fixed network coverage and “last-mile” access. Our IP telephony services also compete with other service providers including China Satellite Communication, or China SatCom, and China Railway Communications Co. Ltd., or China Railcom. In 2006, intense competition continued to contribute to the decreases in average realized tariff rates for long distance services and in revenue from our long distance business. In addition, our lack of licenses to operate local telephony networks has continued to hinder the growth of our long distance, data and Internet businesses. Competition from China Telecom, China Netcom and other service providers may continue to adversely affect the profitability and growth of our long distance, data and Internet businesses and, to a lesser extent, our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our churn rates and doubtful debt ratio may increase. The monthly average churn rate of our GSM and CDMA cellular services increased from 2.41% in 2005 to 2.44% in 2006 and from 1.49% in 2005 to 1.57% in 2006, respectively. The reasons for such increases include, among others, competition from other service providers, the increase in the proportion of cost-sensitive subscribers among new subscribers and discontinuance of some contractual subscribers upon expiration of their contract period under CDMA handset promotional 8 Table of Contents packages. Increased churn rates of our GSM and CDMA services may adversely affect our market share and increase our costs of additional customer acquisitions and bad debt, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. China is still in the process of developing an effective credit reporting system, and with intense competition in the cellular telecommunications market, our doubtful debt ratio for cellular services, calculated as the amount of doubtful debt provided during the year divided by revenue from our cellular services, may increase in the future. Our doubtful debt ratio of our GSM and CDMA cellular businesses was at 1.7% as of December 31, 2006. If such ratio increases in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Obstacles in interconnection with networks of other telecommunications operators could jeopardize our operations. The effective provision of our cellular, long distance telephony and other services requires the interconnection between our networks and those of Unicom Group, and the networks of China Telecom, China Netcom, China Mobile and other telecommunications operators. Any obstacles in existing interconnection arrangements or any significant change of their terms, as a result of natural events, accidents, or for regulatory, technological, competitive or other reasons, could lead to temporary service disruptions and increased costs that can seriously jeopardize our operations and adversely affect our profitability and growth. Difficulties in the execution of new interconnection arrangements on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, including the inability to promptly establish additional interconnection links or increase interconnection bandwidths as required, could also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and growth prospects. Our controlling shareholder, Unicom Group, can exert influence on us and cause us to make decisions that may not always be in the best interests of our other shareholders. Unicom Group indirectly controls an aggregate of 76.59% of our issued share capital as of May 31, 2007. As our controlling shareholder, it is able to influence our major business decisions through its control of our board of directors. All of our executive directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of Unicom Group. In addition, our operations depend on a number of services provided by Unicom Group. For example, Unicom Group leases to us, on an exclusive basis, capacity on the CDMA network located in our cellular service areas, provides us with access to international gateways, supplies us with subscriber identity module cards, or SIM cards, and calling cards and provides equipment procurement services and customer services to us. Unicom Group and we also provide a number of services to each other, including interconnection and roaming services, sales agency and collection services and provision of premises. See “A. History and Development of the Company ¾ Our Relationship with Unicom Group” under Item 4 of this annual report. The interests of Unicom Group and our interests in these transactions may differ and Unicom Group may cause us to make decisions that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. The internal reorganization of Unicom Group for the A Share offering has created a two-step voting mechanism that will require the approval of the minority shareholders of both our Company and the A Share Company for significant connected transactions between us and Unicom Group. In October 2002, Unicom Group completed an internal reorganization of its shareholding in our company and the initial public offering in China of its newly established subsidiary, China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited, or the A Share Company. As part of this restructuring, a portion of Unicom Group’s indirect shareholding in our company was transferred to the A Share Company, whose 9 Table of Contents business is limited to indirectly holding the equity interest of our company without any other direct business operations. A voting mechanism was established to allow public shareholders of the A Share Company to indirectly participate in our shareholders’ meetings and a two-step voting mechanism was established for the approval of connected transactions. See “A. History and Development of the Company ¾ Further Restructuring of Unicom Group and Initial Public Offering of the A Share Company in 2002” under Item 4 below. As a result, significant connected transactions between us or our subsidiaries and Unicom Group or its subsidiaries will require the separate approval of the independent minority shareholders both of our company and of the A Share Company. Connected transactions approved by our independent minority shareholders nevertheless cannot proceed if they are not approved by the independent minority shareholders of the A Share Company. This adds another necessary step of approval process for those transactions. Investor confidence and the market prices of our shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely impacted if we are or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in future years as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a public company in the United States that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we include in this annual report a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2006, our management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 was effective. Our management’s assessment has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, an independent registered public accounting firm, which expresses unqualified opinions on our management’s assessment and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. However, we cannot assure you that, in the future, our management will continue to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective for future periods, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, reviewed or evaluated, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the relevant requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes in the future could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our shares and ADSs. We may incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, we incur a higher level of accounting, legal and other expenses than many private companies. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance and internal control practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of increased compliance work in light of the implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our audit fees increased 110% from US$7.35 million in 2005 to US$15.42 million in 2006. 10 Table of Contents The unrealized gain or loss on changes in fair value of the derivative component of our zero coupon convertible bonds and the dilution effect resulting from the conversion of such convertible bonds may adversely affect our share price. On July 5, 2006, we issued zero coupon convertible bonds due July 5, 2009, with an aggregate principal amount of US$1 billion. The holder of the convertible bonds has an option to convert the bonds into our ordinary shares at a conversion price of HK$8.63 (approximately US$1.11) per share, subject to certain adjustments. According to HKFRS, the conversion option is separately carried as derivative liability at fair value on our balance sheet and any change in such fair value will be charged or credited to our statement of income for the period in which the change occurs. Due to the substantial change in our share price from HK$6.95 as of July 5, 2006, the issue date of the convertible bonds, to HK$11.40 as of December 31, 2006, the fair value of the conversion option in respect of the convertible bonds increased significantly and resulted in an unrealized loss of RMB2.40 billion (approximately US$307 million) on changes in fair value of derivative component of the convertible bonds. Although such unrealized losses do not have any effect on our cash flow or other aspects of our operations, they had a negative impact on our net income for the year 2006, causing a 24.3% decrease from 2005. Fluctuations in our share price, which are beyond our control, could cause unrealized loss or gain again in the future, which may significantly impact our net income. If such unrealized loss or gain reoccurs, we cannot assure you that it will not cause any negative impact on the market price of our shares or ADSs. In addition, pursuant to the subscription agreement of the convertible bonds, the holder of the convertible bonds may choose to convert such bonds into our common shares, starting from July 5, 2007. Assuming full conversion of the bonds at the initial conversion price of HK$8.63 (US$1.11) per share, the bonds would be convertible into 899,745,075 ordinary shares, representing approximately 6.67% of our enlarged issued and outstanding share capital as of June 20, 2006. If the holder of the convertible bonds chooses to convert a portion or all of the convertible bonds, such conversion may dilute our net income per share, which in turn could have negative impact on the market price of our Shares or ADSs. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in China Regulatory or policy changes relating to the PRC telecommunications industry or any future industry restructuring may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC government continues to regulate many aspects of the telecommunications industry in China. Potential changes in regulations and policies and their implementation could lead to significant changes in the overall industry environment. These changes may include, among others, new regulatory decisions or measures relating to issuance of 3G licenses or selection of 3G technology standards, calling-party-pays arrangements, roaming charges or other tariff adjustments, fulfillment of telecommunications service providers’ universal service obligations and the associated expenses, usage of numbers or frequency resources and the associated fees, or standards and mechanisms of interconnection settlement, and could substantially affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. For example, if the PRC government decides to grant 3G licenses to one or more of our competitors but not to us, or deregulates or reduces state tariff rates applicable to some of our services, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, MII has recently encouraged the gradual implementation of “calling-party-pays” billing arrangements and the reduction of roaming charges by wireless telecommunications operators in the PRC. We cannot predict whether such regulatory moves will result in changes in regulations and official policies, and we cannot assure you that any such regulatory moves, if implemented, will not adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 11 Table of Contents Moreover, the PRC government has in the past restructured the telecommunications industry through a number of initiatives that were rolled out in stages and may initiate further industry restructuring in the future. Any form of potential restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry may significantly affect the overall business environment and the operations of telecommunications operators in China, including us. We cannot predict the timing for, and any implications and effect of, any future restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry, or give any assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by any such industry restructuring. Recently, there have been some media reports indicating that our CDMA and/or GSM businesses may be transferred to other PRC telecommunications operator(s) as a result of a contemplated industry restructuring. We are not aware of any agreements or arrangements in this regard, and we have been unable to confirm with the relevant PRC regulators whether this or any other particular form of industry restructuring is being contemplated. If any such restructuring is carried out at a time or in terms that are not in the interest of our Company or different from market expectations, the value of our Company and the market prices of our ADSs and shares could be materially and adversely affected. Issuance of additional telecommunications service licenses, including 3G licenses, may further intensify competition in the PRC telecommunications industry and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Since the mid-1990s, the PRC government has taken various measures, including licensing more providers of telecommunications services, to encourage competition in the telecommunications industry. Currently, the Chinese telecommunications market has six basic telecommunications service providers — China Telecom, China Mobile, China Netcom, China Satcom, China Railcom, and our Company — and thousands of value-added service providers. In addition, the government may grant additional telecommunications service licenses in the future, including 3G licenses. Although the MII recently announced three 3G technology standards in the PRC, which include the standard known as “CDMA2000” that has been utilized by our CDMA cellular business, to date, the PRC government has not publicly announced its official decisions on the definitive timing of the grant of the 3G licenses, the number of 3G licenses to be granted or the selection criteria for telecommunications operators to be granted with 3G licenses. The issuance of 3G licenses may significantly change the overall competition environment of the wireless telecommunications industry and further intensify the competition among telecommunications service providers in China. While we, together with certain other telecommunications service providers, have participated in the 3G trial test and study programs sponsored by the MII and have been preparing for developing 3G business by upgrading our networks and services, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will grant us the requisite approvals and 3G license(s) in a timely or favorable manner, or at all. We cannot predict the 3G technology standards that may be selected by the PRC government for the 3G license(s) that may be granted to us. Even if we are granted one or more 3G licenses, we cannot assure you that we will successfully manage the technology migration to 3G and 3G operations and effectively compete with other cellular services provider(s). After its accession to the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in December 2001, China promulgated the Administrative Regulations on Telecommunications Companies with Foreign Investment, implementing its commitments to the WTO. Those commitments include the gradual reduction of foreign ownership restrictions in the telecommunications industry and the step-by-step opening of the telecommunications market in China to foreign operators. As of the end of 2006, there was no longer any geographic restriction for foreign telecommunications service provider to provide mobile voice and data telecommunications services in China. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters — Entry into the Industry” under Item 4. When the PRC government grants licenses to additional telecommunications service providers in the future, licensees may include foreign-invested operators. Such foreign-invested operators entering into China’s telecommunications market may have competitive advantages over us in areas such as financial resources, network management and technical expertise. Increased competition in China’s telecommunications services industry could impede the growth of our businesses, further increase competition for skilled and experienced employees, result in or exacerbate price competition and increase our customer acquisition costs and other costs and expenses, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. 12 Table of Contents The telecommunications industry in China may not sustain its pace of rapid growth, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The telecommunications industry in China has experienced rapid growth in the last several years, especially in the cellular communications sector. The total number of cellular subscribers in China increased from 43.3 million at the end of 1999 to 461.1 million by December 31, 2006. Cellular penetration increased from 3.5% to over 35% nationwide during the same period. The growth in cellular subscribers has been slowing down as cellular penetration continues to increase in our cellular service areas. In addition, ARPU for the cellular communications market in China continues to decline. For example, ARPU of our CDMA subscribers declined from RMB75.1 in 2005 to RMB65.9 in 2006. Any slowdown in the growth in China’s telecommunications industry may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The PRC government may require us, along with other telecommunications service providers in China, to provide universal services with specified obligations, and we may not be compensated adequately for providing such services. Under the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the State Council, telecommunications service providers in China are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC government authorities, and the MII has the authority to delineate the scope of universal service obligations. The MII, together with government finance and pricing authorities, is also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. While specific universal services obligations are not yet clear, we believe that such services may include mandatory provision of basic telecommunications services in less economically developed areas in China and mandatory contribution to a universal service fund. In addition, as part of the transitional measures prior to the formalization of a universal service obligation framework, the MII has required major telecommunications service providers in China, including Unicom Group, to participate in a project to provide telephone services in thousands of remote villages in China. In participating in such project, Unicom Group, with our assistance, undertook the universal service obligation to extend telecommunications service coverage to a total of more than 5,700 administrative-level villages from 2004 to 2006 primarily through its CDMA and satellite transmission networks. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters — Universal Services” under Item 4. We cannot predict whether the PRC government will specifically require us to undertake universal service obligations in the future. To the extent we are required to do so, it is currently uncertain whether we will be adequately or timely compensated by the government or by the universal service fund. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize an adequate return on investments for expanding networks to, and providing telecommunications services in, those less economically developed areas due to potentially higher capital expenditure requirements, lower usage by customers and lack of flexibility in setting our tariffs. We also cannot predict whether we will be required to make contribution to the universal service fund. Any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile devices could impair our ability to retain and attract customers, reduce cellular service usage or result in litigation. Concerns have been expressed in some countries that the electromagnetic signals emitted by wireless telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels, and interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. In addition, cellular operators have been subject to lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of cellular handset usage or 13 Table of Contents proximity to base stations or seeking protective or remedial measures. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with the transmission of electromagnetic signals will not impair our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce cellular service usage or result in litigation. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments. In recent years, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to manage the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, including a decline in individual spending activities, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If the PRC government revises the current regulations that allow a foreign investment enterprise to pay foreign exchange in current account transactions, our operating subsidiary’s ability to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. The ability of our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, China Unicom Corporation Limited, or CUCL, to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us depends on existing and future foreign exchange regulations in China. The Renminbi is currently convertible by foreign-invested enterprises in China to settle transactions under the current account, which include trade and service related foreign exchange transactions and payments of dividends and interest on foreign loans. Renminbi currently cannot be freely converted without regulatory approval for transactions under the capital account, which includes outbound foreign investment and principal payments on foreign loans. CUCL, which holds substantially all of our assets and through which we conduct substantially all of our business, is a foreign-invested enterprise in China. This status allows it to purchase foreign exchange at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. However, there is no assurance that the relevant PRC government authorities will not in the future impose any limitation on the ability of foreign-invested enterprises to purchase foreign exchange to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations or to pay dividends. In that event, CUCL’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi could adversely affect the prices of our shares and ADSs as well as our profitability. Substantially all of our revenues and costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our borrowings, equipment purchases and other capital expenditures are denominated in foreign 14 Table of Contents currencies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to that of U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China. As of December 29, 2006, the Renminbi has appreciated approximately 5.71% in value against the U.S. dollar since July 21, 2005. On May 19, 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. With increased floating range of the Renminbi’s value against foreign currencies, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the future. Increased fluctuations of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value in foreign currency terms of cash flow generated from our operations or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs, and therefore the price of our shares and ADSs. Any future Renminbi devaluations could also increase our equipment importation costs or lead to significant fluctuations in the exposure of our foreign-currency-denominated liabilities, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us and to foreign investors. Our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, CUCL, is organized under the laws of PRC and is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, property, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the relatively limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and/or enforcement of these laws and regulations involves uncertainties. Therefore, the PRC legal system may not afford the same legal protection available to investors in the United States or elsewhere. 