D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our cellular businesses face intense competition from China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, China Telecom Corporation Limited, or China Telecom, and China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom. Such competition may intensify and result in slower subscriber growth, lower tariffs and higher customer acquisition costs for us, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Our cellular businesses face intense competition from China Mobile. China Mobile is the largest cellular operator in China and has competitive advantages over us in areas such as customer base, financial resources and brand recognition. We are experiencing intense competition from China Mobile in our cellular service areas, and such competition may continue and intensify. In particular, continued price competition between China Mobile and us in many service areas has accelerated the decline of the average revenue per user per month, or ARPU, of our cellular services, and adversely affected our profitability. Moreover, China Mobile has announced its intention to launch 3G cellular services in the future, which could further intensify the competition with our cellular businesses, particularly our CDMA services. Our cellular services also compete with the local wireless telecommunications services of China Telecom and China Netcom in their respective service areas, known as “Little Smart” services, which are based on their fixed line networks and primarily utilize the personal handy-phone system, or PHS, technology. They are offered as extensions of fixed line services and, with such features as calling-party-pays arrangements, carry significantly lower tariffs than cellular services. The “Little Smart” services were previously offered primarily in small- to medium-sized cities, but have been introduced in most major cities nationwide since 2003. Currently these services have attracted over 90 million users in China and their subscriber base is continuing to grow. In addition, both China Telecom and China Netcom have announced their intention to develop 3G cellular services in the future, which would impose direct competition with our cellular business. Increased competition from China Mobile, China Telecom and China Netcom could lead to slower subscriber growth, lower traffic volume of our services, continued price pressure and higher costs of customer acquisition, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. 6 Our CDMA services may not succeed in gaining a broader market acceptance in China. We are the only cellular operator offering CDMA services in China. Prior to the introduction of our CDMA services in 2002, digital cellular services in China were mostly based on the global system for mobile communications, or GSM, technology. The majority of cellular subscribers in China today continue to be GSM subscribers. CDMA cellular services compete with GSM services for cellular subscribers, who may be reluctant to switch to CDMA cellular services because of the need to obtain a new CDMA handset and a new phone number. CDMA services are also perceived to have limitations in international roaming due to the lack of CDMA networks in many countries. In addition, CDMA handsets are generally more expensive than GSM handsets. As of December 31, 2005, the total number of our CDMA subscribers has reached 32.72 million in our service areas. Nevertheless, in comparison with 393 million cellular subscribers in China as of December 31, 2005, CDMA services have yet to gain a broader market acceptance in China. Whether our CDMA services can gain broader market acceptance will continue to be subject to a number of uncertainties, including, among others: · whether we can effectively retain our existing subscribers and attract sufficient new CDMA cellular subscribers; · whether we can effectively reduce the cost of CDMA handsets and marketing expenses and strengthen the management of the purchase and distribution processes of the CDMA handsets; and · whether we can generate more revenues from value-added services by capitalizing the technological advantages of CDMA 1X wireless data services. Any of these uncertainties may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our CDMA cellular services and consequently our financial condition and results of operation. Our CDMA and GSM businesses may compete with each other, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of these businesses. Although we are committed to coordinating the development of our CDMA and GSM businesses, these two businesses may compete with each other for our financial, management, human and other resources as well as cellular subscribers. For example, since we have expanded our CDMA services into the mass market, our CDMA business may compete with our GSM business for mid- and low-end cellular subscribers. A portion of our CDMA subscribers were former subscribers of our GSM services. If the development of our CDMA and GSM services is not coordinated effectively or we cannot obtain adequate resources for both our GSM and CDMA cellular services, the growth and profitability of these businesses and our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. Failure to continually expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure or changes in telecommunications technology and technological standards could adversely affect our competitive position and hinder our growth. The growth of our businesses depends on whether we are able to continue to expand the coverage and capacity of our networks, to upgrade the technology and to improve the quality of our networks in a timely and effective manner. We also need to continue to improve the quality of our existing networks in order to enhance our telecommunications services. 7 In addition, the telecommunications industry in China and elsewhere in the world is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and technological standards, including, among others, the technology migration to 3G and the development of voice-over-internet protocol technology, or VOIP. Such changes may render our networks and systems obsolete or inadequate. As a result of such changes, we may need to make significant changes and upgrades to our existing networks and infrastructure or construct new networks and infrastructure, which may require substantial capital expenditures and other resources. Our ability to expand and upgrade our networks and infrastructure is subject to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to achieve the following on a timely basis and on acceptable terms: · obtain adequate financing; · obtain relevant government licenses, permits and approvals; · manage the technology migration in an effective manner; · obtain adequate network equipment and software; · retain experienced management and technical personnel; · obtain sufficient spectrum frequencies, network numbers and other telecommunication resources controlled by the PRC government; · gain access to the sites for network construction or upgrade; and · enter into interconnection and other arrangements with other operators. If we are not able to timely and effectively overcome these uncertainties and other difficulties we may encounter in expanding and upgrading our networks and infrastructure, our competitive position, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects may be adversely affected. We may be unable to fund our capital expenditure and debt service requirements, which may adversely affect our financial condition and growth prospects. We continue to have a significant level of capital expenditure and debt service requirements. We plan to spend approximately RMB22.00 billion for capital expenditure in 2006, an increase of RMB4.39 billion or 24.9% from 2005. As of December 31, 2005, the sum of our long-term and short-term interest bearing debt exceeded the amount of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits by RMB28.3 billion. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” under Item 5. In the future we may be unable to obtain the necessary financing on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our financial condition, competitive position and growth prospects. Our ability to obtain acceptable financing at any time may depend on a number of factors, including, among others: · our financial condition and results of operations, · our creditworthiness and relationship with lenders, · the condition of the economy and the telecommunications industry in China, · conditions in relevant financial markets in China and elsewhere in the world, and · our ability to obtain any required government approvals for our financings. 8 The CDMA handset promotional packages have increased our costs and expenses and may adversely affect our profitability. In order to accelerate the development of the CDMA business and subscriber growth during the product introduction period, we began to offer certain CDMA handset promotional packages in the second half of 2002. Under those arrangements, CDMA handsets were provided to the subscribers for their use at no additional cost to them during the specified contract periods as long as such subscribers agreed to incur a minimum amount of service fees during the contract period. The maximum contract period is two years. The cost of the handsets provided to subscribers under these contractual arrangements, treated as deferred customer acquisition costs, were deferred, to the extent recoverable, and amortized over the contractual period during which we expect to receive the minimum contract revenue. Therefore, these promotional packages tend to increase our costs and expenses. While we substantially reduced the use of such CDMA handset promotional packages since 2003, the carrying amount of the deferred customer acquisition costs remain significant. For the year ended December 31, 2005, amortization of such deferred customer acquisition costs amounted to approximately RMB5,948 million and the carrying amount of such costs amounted to RMB2,944 million as of December 31, 2005. As a result, while the use of these CDMA promotional packages has accelerated the growth of our CDMA business, they may adversely affect the profitability of our CDMA business and our financial condition and results of operations. In order to control the costs of our CDMA promotional packages, we have adopted the policy to centralize the purchases of CDMA handsets since 2005. In July 2005, we established a subsidiary, Unicom Huasheng Telecommunications Technology Company Limited, or Unicom Huasheng, which primarily manages the purchase and distribution of CDMA handsets for us. Such centralized purchase policy has resulted in us maintaining a certain level of inventory of CDMA handsets that is subject to the risk of inventory obsolescence. As of December 31, 2005, we maintained an inventory of CDMA handsets of RMB930 million. Our long distance, data and Internet businesses remain relatively small comparing to China Telecom and China Netcom, and competition from China Telecom, China Netcom and other telecommunication service providers may adversely affect our profitability and growth in these businesses. The fixed line operators of China Telecom and China Netcom currently hold a dominant market position in the public switched long distance telephony, or PSTN, and data services markets in China in their respective service areas. They are also the dominant providers of Internet protocol telephony, or IP telephony, and Internet access services in China. China Telecom and China Netcom have competitive advantages over us in customer base, financial resources, fixed network coverage and “last-mile” access. Our IP telephony services compete with other service providers including China Satellite Communication, or China SatCom and China Railway Communications Co. Ltd., or China Railcom. In 2005, intense competition has continued to contribute to the decreases in average realized tariff rates for long distance services and in our revenue from long distance business. The growth of our long distance, data and Internet businesses has been further hindered by our lack of licenses to operate local telephony networks. Competition from China Telecom, China Netcom and other service providers may continue to adversely affect the profitability and growth of our long distance, data and Internet businesses and consequently our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our churn rates and doubtful debt ratio may increase. The monthly average churn rate of our GSM cellular services slightly increased from 2.30% in 2004 to 2.41% in 2005. Such increase was primarily due to the following factors: 9 · intense competition from the GSM services of China Mobile and the “Little Smart” services of China Telecom and China Netcom; · the increase in the proportion of cost-sensitive subscribers among new subscribers as a result of continuing expansion of our GSM cellular services in the mass market; and · an increase in the proportion of subscribers to our pre-paid GSM services which are characterized by a higher churn rate than post-paid services. Although the monthly average churn rate of our CDMA cellular services stood at 1.49% in 2005, the same level in 2004, there is no assurance that it will not increase in the future. Increased churn rates of our GSM and CDMA services may adversely affect our market share and increase our costs of additional customer acquisitions and bad debt, which would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. China has yet to develop an effective credit control system, and with intense competition in the cellular telecommunication market, our doubtful debt ratio for cellular services, calculated as the amount of provision for doubtful debt divided by revenue from our cellular services, may increase in the future. While our doubtful debt ratio decreased from 2.8% as of December 31, 2004 to 1.8% as of December 31, 2005 due to our improved management of payment delinquency in 2005, there is no assurance that it will not increase in the future. If such ratio increases in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Obstacles in interconnection with networks of other telecommunication operators could jeopardize our operations. The effective provision of our cellular, long distance telephony and other services requires the interconnection between our networks and the networks of China Telecom, China Netcom, China Mobile and other telecommunication operators. Any obstacles in existing interconnection arrangements or any significant change of their terms, as a result of natural events, accidents, or for regulatory, technological, competitive or other reasons, could lead to temporary service disruptions and increased costs that can seriously jeopardize our operations and adversely affect our profitability and growth. Difficulties in the execution of new interconnection arrangements on a timely basis and on acceptable terms, including the inability to promptly establish additional interconnection links or increase interconnection bandwidths as required, could also adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation and growth prospects. Our controlling shareholder, Unicom Group, can exert influence on us and cause us to make decisions that may not always be in the best interests of our other shareholders. Unicom Group indirectly controls an aggregate of 52.36% of our issued share capital as of May 31, 2006. As our controlling shareholder, it is able to influence our major business decisions through its control of our board of directors. All of our executive directors and executive officers also serve as directors or executive officers of Unicom Group. In addition, our operations depend on a number of services provided by Unicom Group. For example, Unicom Group leases to us, on an exclusive basis, capacity on the CDMA network located in our cellular service areas, provides us with access to international gateways, supplies us with SIM cards and calling cards and provides equipment procurement services and customer services to us. Unicom Group and we also provide a number of services to each other, including interconnection and roaming services, sales agency and collection services and provision of premises. See “A. History and Development of the Company - Our Relationship with Unicom Group” under Item 4 of this annual report. The interests of Unicom Group and our interests in these transactions may differ and Unicom Group may cause us to make decisions that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. 10 The internal reorganization of Unicom Group for the A Share offering has created a two-step voting mechanism that will require the approval of the minority shareholders of both our Company and the A Share Company for significant connected transactions between us and Unicom Group. In October 2002, Unicom Group completed an internal reorganization of its shareholding in our company and the initial public offering in China, of its newly established subsidiary, China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited, or A Share Company. As part of this restructuring, a portion of Unicom Group’s indirect shareholding in our company was transferred to the A Share Company, whose business is limited to indirectly holding the equity interest of our company without any other direct business operations. A voting mechanism was established to allow public shareholders of the A Share Company to indirectly participate in our shareholders’ meetings and a two-step voting mechanism was established for the approval of connected transactions. See “A. History and Development of the Company - Further Restructuring of Unicom Group and Initial Public Offering of the A Share Company in 2002” under Item 4 below. As a result, significant connected transactions between us or our subsidiaries and Unicom Group or its subsidiaries will require the separate approval of the independent minority shareholders both of our company and of the A Share Company. Connected transactions approved by our independent minority shareholders nevertheless cannot proceed if they are not approved by the independent minority shareholders of the A Share Company. This adds another necessary step of approval process for those transactions. Investor confidence and the market prices of our shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely impacted if we are or our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2006 as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are a public company in the United States that is subject to, among other things, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we include a report of management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must audit and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Our management may conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. Even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree. If our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, reviewed or evaluated, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the relevant requirements, rules or regulations differently from us, then it may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could materially and adversely affect the market prices of our shares and ADSs. 11 We may incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company listed on the New York Stock Exchange and The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, we incur a higher level of accounting, legal and other expenses than many private companies. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and the New York Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance and internal control practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in China Regulatory or policy changes relating to the PRC telecommunications industry or future industry restructuring may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The PRC government continues to regulate many aspects of the telecommunications industry in China. Potential changes in regulations and policies and their implementation could lead to changes in the overall industry environment. These changes may include, among others, new regulatory decisions or measures relating to issuance of 3G licenses or selection of 3G technology standards, calling-party-pays arrangements or other tariff adjustments, fulfillment of telecommunications service providers’ universal service obligations and the associated expenses, usage of numbers or frequency resources and the associated fees, or standards and mechanisms of interconnection settlement, and could substantially affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. For example, if the PRC government decides to grant 3G licenses to one or more of our competitors but not to us, or deregulates or reduces state tariff rates applicable to some of our services, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the PRC government has in the past restructured the telecommunications industry through a number of initiatives that were rolled out in stages and may initiate further industry restructuring in the future. Potential restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry, if any, may affect the overall business environment and the operations of telecommunications operators in China, including us. We cannot predict the timing for, and any implications and effect of, any future restructuring of the PRC telecommunications industry, or give any assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected by any such industry restructuring. Issuance of additional telecommunication service licenses, including 3G licenses, may further intensify competition in the PRC telecommunications industry and materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Since mid 1990s, the PRC government has taken various measures, including licensing more providers of telecommunications services, to encourage competition in the telecommunications industry. Currently, the Chinese telecommunications market has six basic telecommunications service providers — China Telecom, China Mobile, China Netcom, China Satcom, China Railcom, and our Company — and thousands of value-added service providers. In addition, the government may grant additional telecommunications service licenses in the future, including additional licenses to provide 3G cellular services. 12 The PRC government has not publicly announced its decisions on the timing of the grant of the 3G licenses, the number of 3G licenses to be granted, or the selection of preferred 3G technology standards. The issuance of 3G licenses to cellular service providers may significantly change the overall competition environment of the wireless telecommunications industry and further intensify the competition among cellular service providers. While we have participated in the 3G trial tests sponsored by the MII and have been preparing for developing 3G business by upgrading our CDMA and/or GSM network and services, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will grant us the requisite approvals and license(s) in a timely or favorable manner, or at all. We cannot predict the 3G technology standards that may be selected by the PRC government for the 3G license(s) that may be granted to us. Even if we are granted one or more 3G licenses, we cannot assure you that we will successfully manage the technology migration to 3G and 3G operations and effectively compete with other cellular services providers. After its accession to the World Trade Organization, or WTO, in December 2001, China promulgated the Administrative Regulations on Telecommunications Companies with Foreign Investment, implementing its commitments to the WTO. Those commitments include the gradual reduction of foreign ownership restrictions in the telecommunications industry and the step-by-step opening of the telecommunications market in China to foreign operators. By the end of 2006, there will be no geographic restriction for foreign telecommunication service provider to provide mobile voice and data telecommunication services in China. See “Regulatory and Related Matters — Entry into the Industry” under Item 4. When the PRC government grants licenses to additional telecommunications service providers in the future, licensees may include foreign-invested operators. Such foreign-invested operators entering into China’s telecommunications market may have competitive advantages over us in areas such as financial resources, network management and technical expertise. Increased competition in China’s telecommunications services industry could impede the growth of our businesses, further increase competition for skilled and experienced employees, result in or exacerbate price competition and increase our customer acquisition costs and other costs and expenses, and thereby adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. The telecommunications industry in China may not sustain its pace of rapid growth, which may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The telecommunications industry in China has experienced rapid growth in the last several years, especially in the cellular communications sector. The total number of cellular subscribers in China increased from 43.3 million at the end of 1999 to 393 million by December 31, 2005. Cellular penetration increased from 3.5% to 30.3% nationwide during the same period. The growth in cellular subscribers has been slowing down as cellular penetration continues to increase in our cellular service areas. In addition, ARPU for the cellular communications market in China continues to decline. For example, ARPU of our GSM subscribers declined from RMB49.4 in 2004 to RMB48.5 in 2005. Any slow-down in the growth in China’s telecommunications industry may adversely affect the growth and profitability of our business. The PRC government may require us, along with other telecommunication service providers in China, to provide universal services with specified obligations, and we may not be compensated adequately for providing such services. Under the Telecommunications Regulations promulgated by the State Council, telecommunications service providers in China are required to fulfill universal service obligations in accordance with relevant regulations to be promulgated by the PRC government authorities, and the MII has the authority to delineate the scope of universal service obligations. The MII, together with government finance and pricing authorities, is also responsible for formulating administrative rules relating to the establishment of a universal service fund and compensation schemes for universal services. 13 While specific universal services obligations are not yet clear, we believe that such services may include mandatory provision of basic telecommunications services in less economically developed areas in China and mandatory contribution to a universal service fund. In addition, as part of the transitional measures prior to the formalization of a universal service obligation framework, the MII has required major telecommunication service providers in China, including Unicom Group, to participate in a project to provide telephone services in thousands of remote villages in China. In participating in such project, Unicom Group, with our assistance, undertook the universal service obligation to extend telecommunication service coverage to a total of more than 4,600 administrative-level villages in 2004 and 2005 primarily through its CDMA and satellite transmission networks. In 2006, Unicom Group is required to extend telecommunication service coverage to more than 1,500 additional villages in remote areas. See “B. Business Overview — Regulatory and Related Matters — Universal Services” under Item 4. We cannot predict whether the PRC government will specifically require us to undertake universal service obligations in the future. To the extent we are required to do so, it is currently uncertain whether we will be adequately compensated by the government or by the universal service fund. We cannot assure you that we will be able to realize an adequate return on investments for expanding networks to, and providing telecommunications services in, those less economically developed areas due to potentially higher capital expenditure requirements, lower usage by customers and lack of flexibility in setting our tariffs. We also cannot predict whether we will be required to make contribution to the universal service fund. Any of these events may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Actual or perceived health risks associated with the use of mobile devices could impair our ability to retain and attract customers, reduce cellular service usage or result in litigation. Concerns have been expressed in some countries that the electromagnetic signals emitted by wireless telephone handsets and base stations may pose health risks at exposure levels below existing guideline levels, and interfere with the operation of electronic equipment. In addition, cellular operators have been subject to lawsuits alleging various health consequences as a result of cellular handset usage or proximity to base stations or seeking protective or remedial measures. While we are not aware that such health risks have been substantiated, there can be no assurance that the actual, or perceived, risks associated with the transmission of electromagnetic signals will not impair our ability to retain customers and attract new customers, reduce cellular service usage or result in litigation. Risks Relating to Doing Business in China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political and social conditions. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected to a significant degree by economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, including a decline in individual spending activities, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 14 If the PRC government revises the current regulations that allow a foreign investment enterprise to pay foreign exchange in current account transactions, our operating subsidiary’s ability to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. The ability of our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, China Unicom Corporation Limited, or CUCL, to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us depends on existing and future foreign exchange regulations in China. The Renminbi is currently convertible by foreign-invested enterprises in China to settle transactions under the current account, which include trade and service related foreign exchange transactions and payments of dividends and interest on foreign loans. Renminbi currently cannot be freely converted without regulatory approval for transactions under the capital account, which include outbound foreign investment and principal payments on foreign loans. CUCL, which holds substantially all of our assets and through which we conduct substantially all of our business, is a foreign-invested enterprise in China. This status allows them to purchase foreign exchange at designated foreign exchange banks for settlement of current account transactions without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. However, there is no assurance that the relevant PRC government authorities will not in the future impose any limitation on the ability of foreign-invested enterprises to purchase foreign exchange to satisfy their foreign exchange obligations or to pay dividends. In that event, CUCL’s ability to satisfy its foreign exchange obligations and to pay dividends to us in foreign currencies may be restricted. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi could adversely affect the prices of our shares and ADSs as well as our profitability. Substantially all of our revenues and costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, while a portion of our borrowings, equipment purchases and other capital expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of Renminbi to that of U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies determined by the People’s Bank of China. The Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued, or it may be permitted to enter into a full float, which may also result in a significant appreciation or depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies. Fluctuations of the Renminbi could adversely affect the value in foreign currency terms of cash flow generated from our operations or any dividends payable on our shares and ADSs, and therefore the price of our shares and ADSs. Any future Renminbi devaluations could also increase our equipment acquisition costs and costs and expenses or lead to significant fluctuations in the exposure of our foreign-currency-denominated liabilities, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. Uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us and to foreign investors. Our wholly-owned operating subsidiary, CUCL, is organized under the laws of PRC and is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published cases and their non-binding nature, interpretation and/or enforcement of these laws and regulations involves uncertainties. Therefore, the PRC legal system may not afford the same legal protection available to investors in the United States or elsewhere. 15 Any future outbreak of health epidemics or other adverse public health developments may severely disrupt our business and operations. Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and the national economy of China and other countries and regions where we do business. From December 2002 to June 2003, China and other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. Recently, some Asian countries, including China, have encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of bird flu, or avian flu. We are unable to predict the effect, if any, that avian flu may have on our business. In particular, any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments may, among other things, significantly disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business, and may adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, an outbreak may severely restrict the level of economic activity in affected areas, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. As a result, we cannot assure you that any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or similar adverse public health developments would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 