Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall. Risks Related to Our Financial Results We have a history of net losses and may not achieve profitability in future periods or maintain profitability on an annual basis Except for 2004, 2006, and 2010, we have incurred net losses on an annual basis since our inception. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $239.5 million. We expect to make substantial expenditures to further develop and commercialize our products, including costs and expenses associated with clinical trials, nonclinical and preclinical studies, regulatory approvals and commercialization. We will likely need to generate significantly greater revenue in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability in light of our planned expenditures. Our ability to generate this revenue will be adversely impacted, possibly materially, if we are unable to maintain market exclusivity for Angiomax. We may not achieve profitability in future periods or at all, and we may not be able to maintain profitability for any substantial period of time. If we fail to achieve profitability or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis within the time frame expected by investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our business is very dependent on the commercial success of Angiomax. If Angiomax does not generate the revenues we anticipate, our business may be materially harmed Angiomax has accounted for substantially all of our revenue since we began selling this product in 2001. Until the approval of Cleviprex by the FDA in August 2008, Angiomax was our only commercial product. Since we ceased supplying Cleviprex to the market in the first quarter of 2010, our only revenues have been from sales of Angiomax. We expect revenues from Angiomax to account for substantially all of our revenues in 2011. The commercial success of Angiomax depends upon: • whether the federal district court’s order’s requiring the PTO to consider our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent timely filed is successfully challenged either by APP in its pending appeal or by APP or a third party in a separate challenge; • the outcome of our efforts to otherwise extend the patent term of the ‘404 patent to 2014 and our ability to maintain market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax; • the continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers of Angiomax as a safe, therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to heparin and other products used in current practice or currently being developed; • our ability to further develop Angiomax and obtain marketing approval of Angiomax for use in additional patient populations and the clinical data we generate to support expansion of the product label; 32 Table of Contents • the overall number of PCI procedures performed; • the impact of competition from competitive products; • to what extent and in what amount government and third-party payors cover or reimburse for the costs of Angiomax; and • our success and the success of our international distributors in selling and marketing Angiomax in Europe and in other countries outside the United States. We continue to develop Angiomax and intend to seek market approval of Angiomax for use in additional patient populations, including in patients with structural heart disease, patients undergoing peripheral angioplasty, carotid angioplasty and cardiovascular surgery and patients with or at risk of HIT/HITTS. Even if we are successful in obtaining approval of an expanded Angiomax label, the expanded label may not result in higher revenue or income on a continuing basis. As of December 31, 2010, our inventory of Angiomax was $24.4 million and we had inventory-related purchase commitments to Lonza Braine totaling $25.3 million for 2011 and $14.7 million for 2012 for Angiomax bulk drug substance. If sales of Angiomax were to decline, we could be required to make an allowance for excess or obsolete inventory or increase our accrual for product returns. Our revenue has been substantially dependent on our sole source distributor, ICS, and international distributors involved in the sale of our products, and such revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of ICS and our international distributors We distribute Angiomax and, prior to the recalls and related supply issues, distributed Cleviprex, in the United States through a sole source distribution model. Under this model, we sell Angiomax and Cleviprex to our sole source distributor, ICS. ICS then sells Angiomax and Cleviprex to a limited number of national medical and pharmaceutical wholesalers with distribution centers located throughout the United States and, in certain cases, directly to hospitals. Our revenue from sales of Angiomax in the United States is exclusively from sales to ICS. We anticipate that our revenue from sales of Cleviprex in the United States will be exclusively from sales to ICS. As a result, we expect that our revenue will continue to be subject to fluctuation from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of ICS, which may be independent of underlying hospital demand. In some countries outside the European Union and in a few countries in the European Union, we sell Angiomax to international distributors and these distributors then sell Angiomax to hospitals. Our reliance on a small number of distributors for international sales of Angiomax could cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of these distributors, independent of underlying hospital demand. If inventory levels at ICS or at our international distributors become too high, these distributors may seek to reduce their inventory levels by reducing purchases from us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our revenue in periods in which such purchase reductions occur. If we are unable to meet our funding requirements, we may need to raise additional capital. If we are unable to obtain such capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected We expect to devote substantial resources to our research and development efforts and to our sales, marketing and manufacturing programs associated with Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. Our funding requirements to support these efforts and programs depend upon many factors, including: • the extent to which Angiomax is commercially successful globally; • whether the federal district court’s order requiring the PTO to consider our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent timely filed is successfully challenged either by APP in its pending appeal or by APP or a third party in a separate challenge; 33 Table of Contents • the outcome of our efforts to otherwise extend the patent term of the ‘404 patent to 2014 and our ability to maintain market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax; • the terms of any settlements with Biogen Idec, HRI or the law firm with which we have not settled our claims with respect to the ‘404 patent and the PTO’s initial denial of our application to extend the term of the patent; • our ability to resupply the U.S. market with Cleviprex and re-launch the product on the time frames we expect and the extent to which Cleviprex is commercially successful in the United States; • the extent to which we can successfully establish a commercial infrastructure outside the United States; • the consideration paid by us in connection with acquisitions and licenses of development-stage products, approved products, or businesses, and in connection with other strategic arrangements; • the progress, level, timing and cost of our research and development activities related to our clinical trials and non-clinical studies with respect to Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development; • the cost and outcomes of regulatory submissions and reviews for approval of Angiomax in additional countries and for additional indications, of Cleviprex outside the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Switzerland and of our products in development globally; • the continuation or termination of third-party manufacturing and sales and marketing arrangements; • the size, cost and effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs globally; • the amounts of our payment obligations to third parties as to Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development; and • our ability to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights. If our existing resources, together with revenues that we generate from sales of our products and other sources, are insufficient to satisfy our funding requirements, we may need to sell equity or debt securities or seek additional financing through other arrangements. Public or private financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we seek to raise funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish rights to products, products in development or technologies that we would not otherwise relinquish or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned research, development and commercialization activities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If we seek to raise capital to fund acquisitions or product candidates or businesses or for other reasons, by selling equity or debt securities or through other arrangements, our stockholders could be subject to dilution and we may become subject to financial restrictions and covenants, which may limit our activities If we seek to acquire any product candidates or businesses or determine that raising additional capital would be in our interest and in the interest of our stockholders, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or seek additional financings through other arrangements. Any sale of additional equity or debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. Debt financing may involve covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures. Our ability to comply with these financial restrictions and covenants could be dependent on our future performance, which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and changes in the level of competition. Failure to comply with the financial restrictions and covenants would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Commercialization Angiomax competes with all categories of anticoagulant drugs, which may limit the use of Angiomax and adversely affect our revenue Due to the incidence and severity of cardiovascular diseases, the market for anticoagulant therapies is large and competition is intense. There are a number of anticoagulant drugs currently on the market, awaiting regulatory approval or in development, including orally administered agents. Angiomax competes with, or may compete with in the future, these anticoagulant drugs to the extent Angiomax and any of these anticoagulant drugs are approved for the same or similar indications. We have positioned Angiomax to compete primarily with heparin, platelet inhibitors such as GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, and treatment regimens combining heparin and GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. Because heparin is inexpensive and has been widely used for many years, physicians and medical decision-makers may be hesitant to adopt Angiomax instead of heparin. GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors that Angiomax competes with include ReoPro from Eli Lilly and Johnson & Johnson/Centocor, Inc., Integrilin from Merck & Co., Inc., and Aggrastat from Iroko Pharmaceuticals, LLC and MediCure Inc. GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors are widely used and some physicians believe they offer superior efficacy to Angiomax in high risk patients. Physicians may choose to use heparin combined with GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors due their years of experience with this combination therapy and reluctance to change existing hospital protocols and pathways. In some circumstances, Angiomax competes with other anticoagulant drugs for the use of hospital financial resources. For example, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for the angioplasties and other treatment therapies they perform. As this amount is not based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use either Angiomax or other anticoagulant drugs or a GP IIb/IIIa inhibitor but not necessarily more than one of these drugs. If the federal district court’s order requiring the PTO to consider our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent timely filed is successfully challenged, either by APP in its pending appeal or in a separate challenge, if we are otherwise unsuccessful in further extending the term of the ‘404 patent, or if we are unable to maintain our market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through enforcement of our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax, Angiomax could become subject to generic competition in the United States earlier than we anticipate. Competition from generic equivalents that would be sold at a price that is less than the price at which we currently sell Angiomax could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Cleviprex competes with all categories of intravenous antihypertensive, or IV-AHT, drugs, which may limit the use of Cleviprex and adversely affect our revenue Because different IV-AHT drugs act in different ways on the factors contributing to elevated blood pressure, physicians have several therapeutic options to reduce acutely elevated blood pressure. We have positioned Cleviprex as an improved alternative drug for selected patient types with acute, severe hypertension. Because all other drug options for this use are available as generics, Cleviprex must demonstrate compelling advantages in delivering value to the hospital. In addition to advancements in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety, we may need to demonstrate that Cleviprex will save the hospital resources in other areas such as length of stay and other resource utilization in order to become commercially successful. Because generic therapies are inexpensive and have been widely used for many years, physicians and decision-makers for hospital resource allocation may be hesitant to adopt Cleviprex and fail to recognize the value delivered through a newer agent that offers precise blood pressure control. Hospitals establish formularies, which are lists of drugs approved for use in the hospital. If a drug is not included on the formulary, the ability of our engagement partners and engagement managers to promote the drug may be limited or denied. Hospital formularies may also limit the number of IV-AHT drugs in each drug class. If we fail to secure and maintain formulary inclusion for Cleviprex on favorable terms or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficultly achieving market acceptance of Cleviprex and our business could be materially adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do Our industry is highly competitive. Competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical companies, specialized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources, than we do. Our business strategy is based on us selectively licensing or acquiring and then developing clinical compound candidates or products approved for marketing. Our success will be based in part on our ability to build and actively manage a portfolio of drugs that addresses unmet medical needs and creates value in patient therapy. However, the acquisition and licensing of pharmaceutical products is a competitive area, and a number of more established companies, which have acknowledged strategies to license and acquire products, may have competitive advantages, as may emerging companies taking similar or different approaches to product acquisition. Established companies pursuing this strategy also may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, cash flows and institutional experience. In addition, our competitors may develop, market or license products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer or less costly than any that have been or are being developed by us, or may obtain marketing approval for their products from the FDA or equivalent foreign regulatory bodies more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours. There are well established products, including generic products, that are approved and marketed for the indications for which Angiomax and Cleviprex are approved and the indications for which we are developing our products in development. In addition, competitors are developing products for such indications. We compete, in the case of Angiomax and Cleviprex, and expect to compete, in the cases of our products in development, on the basis of product efficacy, safety, ease of administration, price and economic value compared to drugs used in current practice or currently being developed. If we are not successful in demonstrating these attributes, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If physicians, patients and other key decision-makers do not accept clinical data from trials of Angiomax and Cleviprex, then sales of Angiomax and Cleviprex may be adversely affected We believe that the near-term commercial success of Angiomax and Cleviprex will depend in part upon the extent to which physicians, patients and other key decision-makers accept the results of clinical trials of Angiomax and Cleviprex. For example, following the announcement of the original results of REPLACE-2 in 2002, additional hospitals granted Angiomax formulary approval and hospital demand for the product increased. However, some commentators have challenged various aspects of the trial design of REPLACE-2, the conduct of the study and the analysis and interpretation of the results from the study. Similarly, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers may not accept the results of the ACUITY and HORIZONS AMI trials. The FDA, in denying our sNDA for an additional dosing regimen in the treatment of ACS initiated in the emergency department, indicated that the basis of its decision involved the appropriate use and interpretation of non-inferiority trials such as our ACUITY trial. If physicians, patients and other key decision-makers do not accept clinical trial results, adoption and continued use of Angiomax and Cleviprex may suffer, and our business will be materially adversely affected. If the number of PCI procedures performed decreases, sales of Angiomax may be negatively impacted The number of PCI procedures performed in the United States declined in 2007 due in part to the reaction to data from a clinical trial that was published in March 2007 in the New England Journal of Medicine entitled “Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation,” or “COURAGE”, and to the controversy regarding the use of drug-eluting stents. While PCI procedure volume has increased from 2007 levels, it has not returned to the level of PCI procedures performed prior to the 2007 decline. With ongoing economic pressures on our hospital customers, PCI procedure volume might further decline and might not return to its previous levels. Because PCI procedures are the primary procedures during which Angiomax is used, a further decline in the number of procedures may negatively impact sales of Angiomax, possibly materially. 36 Table of Contents Because we have not sold Cleviprex since the first quarter of 2010 as a result of product recalls and related supply issues, our ability to successfully resume selling Cleviprex may be adversely affected In December 2009 and March 2010, we conducted voluntary recalls of manufactured lots of Cleviprex due to the presence of visible particulate matter at the bottom of some vials. As a result, we have not been able to supply the market with Cleviprex or sell Cleviprex since the first quarter of 2010. We expect to begin to resupply the market with drug product and to resume selling Cleviprex in the first half of 2011. However, physicians and decision makers who may have used Cleviprex prior to the recalls may be reluctant to resume using Cleviprex and physicians and decision makers who had not used Cleviprex may be reluctant to begin using Cleviprex because of the recalls and the related supply issues. Physicians and decision makers who had adopted Cleviprex as their preferred antihypertensive therapy when it was available may also have adopted other antihypertensive therapies during the period when Cleviprex was not available and may be reluctant to change. In addition, we plan to focus our marketing of Cleviprex on neurocritical care and to target stroke centers. We have not focused our marketing of Cleviprex in this area previously and may not be successful in this change in marketing focus. If we are unable to successfully expand our business infrastructure and develop our global operations, our ability to generate future product revenue will be adversely affected and our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed To support the global sales and marketing of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our product candidates in development, if and when they are approved for sale and marketed outside the United States, we are developing our business infrastructure globally, with European operations being our initial focus. If we are unable to expand our global operations successfully and in a timely manner, the growth of our business may be limited. Such expansion may be more difficult, more expensive or take longer than we anticipate. If we are not able to successfully market and sell our products globally, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Future rapid expansion could strain our operational, human and financial resources. For instance, we may be required to allocate additional resources to the expanded business, which we would have otherwise allocated to another part of our business. In order to manage expansion, we must: • continue to improve operating, administrative, and information systems; • accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet contract commitments; • track the progress of ongoing projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. If we do not take these actions and are not able to manage our global business, then our global operations may be less successful than anticipated. The success of our global operations may be adversely affected by international risks and uncertainties. If these operations are not successful, our business, results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected Our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Europe. In addition, with our acquisitions of Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, we are conducting research and development activities in Germany and Canada. These foreign operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, particularly because we have limited experience in marketing, servicing and distributing our products or otherwise operating our business outside of the United States. These risks and uncertainties include: • our customers’ ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; • the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements; • language barriers and other difficulties in providing long-range customer support and service; 37 Table of Contents • longer accounts receivable collection times; • significant foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenues; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and • the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. Our foreign operations could also be adversely affected by export license requirements, the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Act which generally prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business and requires companies to maintain accurate books and records and internal controls, including at foreign-controlled subsidiaries. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in prohibited conduct under our policies and procedures and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to generate product revenue is affected by reimbursement and drug pricing and whether access to our products is reduced or terminated by governmental and other third-party payors Acceptable levels of coverage and reimbursement of drug treatments by government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid programs, private health insurers and other organizations have a significant effect on our ability to successfully commercialize our products. Reimbursement in the United States, Europe or elsewhere may not be available for any products we may develop or, if already available, may be decreased in the future. We may not get reimbursement or reimbursement may be limited if government payors, private health insurers and other organizations are influenced by the prices of existing drugs in determining whether our products will be reimbursed and at what levels. For example, the availability of numerous generic antibiotics at lower prices than branded antibiotics, such as oritavancin, if it were approved for commercial sale, could substantially affect the likelihood of reimbursement and the level of reimbursement for oritavancin. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our products, or may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our products. In certain countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and the level of reimbursement are subject to governmental control. In some countries, it can take an extended period of time after the receipt of initial approval of a product to establish and obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. Reimbursement approval also may be required at the individual patient level, which can lead to further delays. In addition, in some countries, it may take an extended period of time to collect payment even after reimbursement has been established. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. Third-party payors increasingly are challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the changes in health insurance programs may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products and health care reform. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the PPACA, may also have a significant impact on pricing as the legislation contains a number of provisions that are intended to reduce or limit the growth of healthcare costs. The provisions of the PPACA could, among other things, increase pressure on drug pricing and, as a result, the number of procedures that are performed. In addition to federal legislation, state legislatures and foreign governments have also shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. The 38 Table of Contents establishment of limitations on patient access to our drugs, adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures in new jurisdictions or programs, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures could adversely impact our business and future results. If governmental organizations and third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not reimburse providers or consumers of our products or, if they do, the level of reimbursement may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. Our ability to sell our products to hospitals in the United States depends in part on our relationships with group purchasing organizations, or GPOs. Many existing and potential customers for our products become members of GPOs. GPOs negotiate pricing arrangements and contracts, sometimes on an exclusive basis, with medical supply manufacturers and distributors. These negotiated prices are then made available to a GPO’s affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the providers selected by a GPO, affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to purchase our products, and if the GPO has negotiated a strict sole source, market share compliance or bundling contract for another manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making sales to members of the GPO for the duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to renew contracts with GPOs may cause us to lose market share and could have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew these contracts at the current or substantially similar terms. If we are unable to keep our relationships and develop new relationships with GPOs, our competitive position may suffer. If we do not comply with federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to the health care business, we could face substantial penalties We and our customers are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, and the governments of the states and foreign countries in which we may conduct our business. In the United States, the laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include the following: • the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual or furnishing or arranging for a good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; • other Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by our customers, including the amount of such payment; • the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; • the Federal False Statements Act, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; and • various state laws that impose similar requirements and liability with respect to state healthcare reimbursement and other programs. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations described above or any other law or governmental regulation to which we or our customers are or will be subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. 39 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liability Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products. Product liability claims might be made by patients in clinical trials, consumers, health care providers or pharmaceutical companies or others that sell our products. These claims may be made even with respect to those products that are manufactured in licensed and regulated facilities or otherwise possess regulatory approval for commercial sale. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with the development or commercialization of our products. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. With respect to our commercial sales and our clinical trials, we are covered by product liability insurance in the amount of $20.0 million per occurrence and $20.0 million annually in the aggregate on a claims-made basis. This coverage may not be adequate to cover any product liability claims. As we continue to commercialize our products, we may wish to increase our product liability insurance. Product liability coverage is expensive. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain such product liability insurance on reasonable terms, at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability claims. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters If we do not obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates in any jurisdiction or for our products in any additional jurisdictions, we will not be able to market our products and product candidates in those jurisdictions and our ability to generate additional revenue could be materially impaired. We must obtain approval from the FDA in order to sell our product candidates in the United States and from foreign regulatory authorities in order to sell our product candidates in other countries. In addition, we must obtain approval from foreign regulatory authorities in order to sell our U.S.-approved products in other countries. Except for Angiomax in the United States, Europe and other countries and Cleviprex in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Switzerland, we do not have any other product approved for sale in the United States or any foreign market. Obtaining regulatory approval is uncertain, time-consuming and expensive. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product commercially non-viable. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product’s safety and efficacy. If we are unable to submit the necessary data and information, for example, because the results of clinical trials are not favorable, or if the applicable regulatory authority delays reviewing or does not approve our applications, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals may: • delay or prevent the successful commercialization of any of the products or product candidates in the jurisdiction for which approval is sought • diminish our competitive advantage; and • defer or decrease our receipt of revenue. The regulatory review and approval process to obtain marketing approval takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. This process can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty and indication of the product involved. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that data is insufficient for approval and require additional pre-clinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product. For example, the FDA issued a complete response letter to Targanta in December 2008 before it was acquired by us with respect to the oritavancin NDA indicating that the FDA could not approve the NDA in its present form and that it would be necessary for Targanta to perform an additional adequate and well-controlled study to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of oritavancin in patients with ABSSSI before the application could be approved. 40 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2010, we initiated our SOLO I and SOLO II clinical trials of oritavancin pursuant to a SPA with the FDA. Many companies which have been granted SPAs have ultimately failed to obtain final approval to market their drugs. Since we are developing oritavancin under an SPA, based on protocol designs negotiated with the FDA, we may be subject to enhanced scrutiny. Additionally, even if the primary endpoints in the SOLO trials are achieved, a SPA does not guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power, patient completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an outside advisory committee prior to making its final decision. The procedures to obtain marketing approvals vary among countries and can involve additional clinical trials or other pre-filing requirements. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, or different or additional risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the FDA or regulatory authorities in other foreign countries. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products and products in development in any market. We cannot expand the indications for which we are marketing Angiomax unless we receive regulatory approval for each additional indication. Failure to expand these indications will limit the size of the commercial market for Angiomax In order to market Angiomax for expanded indications, we will need to conduct appropriate clinical trials, obtain positive results from those trials and obtain regulatory approval for such proposed indications. Obtaining regulatory approval is uncertain, time-consuming and expensive. The regulatory review and approval process to obtain marketing approval for a new indication can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. This process can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty and indication of the product involved. The regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application. Alternatively, they may decide that any data submitted is insufficient for approval and require additional pre-clinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a new indication for a product. For example, in 2006 we received a non-approvable letter from the FDA in connection with our application to market Angiomax for patients with or at risk of HIT/HITTS undergoing cardiac surgery. In addition, in May 2008, we received a non-approvable letter from the FDA with respect to an sNDA that we submitted to the FDA seeking approval of an additional indication for Angiomax for the treatment of patients with ACS in the emergency department. In its May 2008 letter, the FDA indicated that the basis of their decision involved the appropriate use and interpretation of non-inferiority trials, including the ACUITY trial. If we determine to pursue these indications, the FDA may require that we conduct additional studies of Angiomax, which studies could require the expenditure of substantial resources. Even if we undertook such studies, we might not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for these indications or any other indications in a timely manner or at all. If we are unsuccessful in expanding the Angiomax product label, the size of the commercial market for Angiomax will be limited. Clinical trials of product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and the results of these trials are uncertain Before we can obtain regulatory approvals to market any product for a particular indication, we will be required to complete pre-clinical studies and extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such product for such indication. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing or early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. An unexpected result in one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. For example, in May 41 Table of Contents 2009 we discontinued enrollment in our Phase 3 CHAMPION clinical trial program of cangrelor in patients undergoing PCI after receiving a letter from the clinical program’s independent Interim Analysis Review Committee that reported that the efficacy endpoints of the trial program would not be achieved. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our products, including: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials which even if undertaken cannot ensure we will gain approval; • data obtained from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials may be subject to varying interpretations, which could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities deciding not to approve a product in a timely fashion, or at all; • the cost of clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • we, or the FDA or other regulatory authorities, might suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. For example, we have in the past voluntarily suspended enrollment in one of our clinical trials to review an interim analysis of safety data from the trial; and • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. In particular, the patient population targeted by some of our clinical trials may be small. Delays in patient enrollment in any of our current or future clinical trials may result in increased costs and program delays. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements to which we, our contract manufacturers and our products and product candidates are subject, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market, the development of our product candidates could be jeopardized, and we could be subject to penalties The testing, manufacturing, labeling, safety, advertising, promotion, storage, sales, distribution, export and marketing, among other things, of our products, both before and after approval, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. Both before and after approval of a product, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform to current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP. Regulatory authorities, including the FDA, periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with the laws administered by the FDA, the EMA or other governmental authorities could result in, among other things, any of the following: • delay in approving or refusal to approve a product; • product recall or seizure; • suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market; • delays in, suspension of or prohibition of commencing, clinical trials of products in development; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; 42 Table of Contents • untitled or warning letters; • injunctions; • fines and other monetary penalties; • the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; and • unanticipated expenditures. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties for Manufacturing, Research and Development, and Distribution Activities We depend on single source suppliers for the production of bulk drug substance for Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development and a limited number of suppliers to carry out fill-finish activities. If any of these suppliers does not or cannot fulfill its manufacturing or supply obligations to us, our ability to meet commercial demands for our products and to conduct clinical trials of our products and products in development could be impaired We do not manufacture any of our products and do not plan to develop any capacity to manufacture them. We currently obtain all bulk drug substance for each of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development from single source suppliers, and rely on a limited number of manufacturers to carry out fill-finish activities for each of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. We do not currently have alternative sources for production of bulk drug substance or to carry out fill finish activities. In the event that any of our third-party manufacturers is unable or unwilling to carry out its respective manufacturing or supply obligations or terminates or refuses to renew its arrangements with us, we may be unable to obtain alternative manufacturing or supply on commercially reasonable terms on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we purchase finished drug product from a number of our third-party manufacturers under purchase orders. In such cases, the third-party manufacturers have made no commitment to supply the drug product to us on a long-term basis and could reject our purchase orders. Only a limited number of manufacturers are capable of manufacturing Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. Consolidation within the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry could further reduce the number of manufacturers capable of producing our products, or otherwise affect our existing contractual relationships. If we were required to transfer manufacturing processes to other third-party manufacturers and we were able to identify an alternative manufacturer, we would still need to satisfy various regulatory requirements. Satisfaction of these requirements could cause us to experience significant delays in receiving an adequate supply of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development and could be costly. Moreover, we may not be able to transfer processes that are proprietary to the manufacturer. Any delays in the manufacturing process may adversely impact our ability to meet commercial demands for Angiomax or Cleviprex on a timely basis, which could reduce our revenue, and to supply product for clinical trials of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development, which could affect our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis. If third parties on whom we rely to manufacture and support the development and commercialization of our products do not fulfill their obligations or we are unable to establish or maintain such arrangements, the development and commercialization of our products may be terminated or delayed, and the costs of development and commercialization may increase Our development and commercialization strategy involves entering into arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, contract research organizations, distributors, third-party manufacturers, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage or conduct our clinical trials, manufacture our products and market and sell our products outside of the United States. We do not have the expertise or the resources to conduct many of these activities on our own and, as a result, are particularly dependent on third parties in many areas. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization or manufacture of Angiomax and Cleviprex or establish and maintain arrangements to develop, manufacture and 43 Table of Contents commercialize our products in development or any additional product candidates or products we may acquire on terms that are acceptable to us. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to Angiomax, Cleviprex, our products in development or any additional products or product candidates we may acquire, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products are not within our control. Our collaborators may develop, manufacture or commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of third parties that manufacture or commercialize our products. Our collaborators may reevaluate their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations, and change the focus of their development, manufacturing or commercialization efforts. Disagreements that may arise with these third parties could delay or lead to the termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If any third party that manufactures or supports the development or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to commit sufficient resources to our collaboration or conduct its activities in a timely manner, or fails to comply with regulatory requirements, such breach, termination or failure could: • delay or otherwise adversely impact the manufacturing, development or commercialization of Angiomax, Cleviprex, our products in development or any additional products or product candidates that we may acquire or develop; • require us to seek a new collaborator or undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unforeseen additional resources to the manufacturing, development or commercialization of our products; or • result in the termination of the development or commercialization of our products. Use of third-party manufacturers may increase the risk that we will not have appropriate supplies of our products or our product candidates Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party; and • the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Angiomax and Cleviprex and our products in development may compete with products and product candidates of third parties for access to manufacturing facilities. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development, it will be more difficult for us to compete effectively, market and sell our approved products and develop our products in development. Our contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to evaluate compliance with the FDA’s cGMP, regulations and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. We do not control compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines and other monetary penalties, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, suspension of clinical trials, license 44 Table of Contents revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, interruption of production, warning letters, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. In December 2009 and March 2010, we conducted voluntary recalls of manufactured lots of Cleviprex due to the presence of visible particulate matter at the bottom of some vials. As a result, we have not been able to supply the market with Cleviprex or sell Cleviprex since the first quarter of 2010. We expect to begin to resupply the market with Cleviprex in the first half of 2011. Although we believe that we have identified the cause of the particulate matter, we may not have done so, or there may be additional factors that caused the particulate matter in the lots. Our third party contract manufacturer has implemented remediation steps that we believe will minimize or eliminate these failures in the future and has manufactured validation batches. However, if the remediation steps that our third-party contract manufacturer has implemented fail to minimize or eliminate these failures, we may not be able to supply Cleviprex when we anticipate. In order to satisfy some regulatory authorities, we may need to reformulate the way in which our oritavancin bulk drug substance is created to remove animal source product, which may delay marketing approval of our products and increase our costs Oritavancin bulk drug substance is manufactured using animal-sourced products, namely porcine-sourced products. Some non-U.S. regulatory authorities have historically objected to the use of animal-sourced products, particularly bovine-sourced products, during the preparation of finished drug product. As a result and in order to better position oritavancin for approval in foreign jurisdictions, under our agreement with Abbott, we and Abbott are seeking to develop a manufacturing process for oritavancin bulk drug substance that does not rely on the use of any animal-sourced products. If we are unable to develop a manufacturing process for oritavancin bulk drug substance that does not rely on the use of animal-sourced product, we may be unable to receive regulatory approval for oritavancin in some foreign jurisdictions, which would likely have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives as to oritavancin. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages As a result of our acquisitions of Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, we now conduct research and development activities that involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials and viruses. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations in each of the United States, Canada and Germany govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We have only limited insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may restrict our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the federal district court’s order requiring the PTO to consider our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent timely filed is successfully challenged, if we are otherwise unsuccessful in further extending the term of the ‘404 patent, or if we are unable to maintain our market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through enforcement of our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax, Angiomax could be subject to generic competition earlier than we anticipate. Generic competition for Angiomax would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations The principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax, the ‘404 patent, was set to expire in March 2010, but has been extended under the Hatch-Waxman Act following our litigation against the PTO, the FDA and HHS. We 45 Table of Contents had applied, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, for an extension of the term of the ‘404 patent, but the PTO rejected our application because in its view the application was not timely filed. As a result, we filed suit against the PTO, the FDA and HHS seeking to set aside the denial of our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent. On August 3, 2010, the federal district court granted our motion for summary judgment and ordered the PTO to consider our patent term extension application timely filed. The period for the government to appeal the federal district court’s August 3, 2010 decision expired without government appeal. However, on August 19, 2010, APP filed a motion to intervene for the purpose of appeal in our case against the PTO, the FDA and HHS. On September 13, 2010, the federal district court denied APP’s motion. APP has appealed the denial of its motion, as well as the federal district court’s August 3, 2010 order. This appeal is pending. In September and October 2009, we were granted two U.S. patents covering Angiomax. We listed both patents in the Orange Book for Angiomax. In October 2009, January 2010, June 2010, August 2010 and February 2011, in response to Paragraph IV Certification Notice letters we received with respect to ANDAs filed with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Angiomax, we filed lawsuits against the ANDA filers alleging patent infringement of the two patents. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. Our litigation with the PTO, the FDA and HHS, APP’s efforts to appeal the August 3, 2010 decision and the patent infringement suits are described in more detail in Item 3 of this annual report. If the August 3, 2010 federal district court’s order requiring the PTO to consider our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent timely filed is successfully challenged either by APP in its pending appeal or by APP or a third party in a separate challenge, if we are otherwise unsuccessful in further extending the term of the ‘404 patent, or if we are unable to maintain our market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through enforcement of our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax, Angiomax could be subject to generic competition in the United States earlier than we anticipate. Competition from generic equivalents that would be sold at a price that is less than the price at which we currently sell Angiomax could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are material to our business or be subject to claims by our licensors We license rights to products and technology that are important to our business, and we expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For instance, we have exclusively licensed patents and patent applications relating to Angiomax, Cleviprex and each of our products in development other than MDCO-2010. Under these agreements, we are subject to a range of commercialization and development, sublicensing, royalty, patent prosecution and maintenance, insurance and other obligations. Any failure by us to comply with any of these obligations or any other breach by us of our license agreements could give the licensor the right to terminate the license in whole, terminate the exclusive nature of the license or bring a claim against us for damages. Any such termination or claim, particularly relating to our agreements with respect to Angiomax, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or business. Even if we contest any such termination or claim and are ultimately successful, such dispute could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of potential products and result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. In addition, on termination we may be required to license to the licensor any related intellectual property that we developed. We have entered into an agreement with Biogen Idec, one of our licensors of Angiomax, that suspends the statute of limitations relating to any claims, including claims for damages and/or license termination, that Biogen Idec may bring relating to the PTO’s initial denial of the application under the Hatch-Waxman Act for an extension of the term of the ‘404 patent on the grounds that it was filed late. We are also in discussions with Biogen Idec and HRI with respect to the possible resolution of any potential claims among the parties with respect to this matter. We may not reach any agreement with the parties on acceptable terms to us or at all. 46 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for the intellectual property relating to our products, the value of our products will be adversely affected The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual issues. Our success depends significantly on our ability to: • obtain and maintain U.S. and foreign patents, including defending those patents against adverse claims; • secure patent term extension for the patents covering our approved products; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We may not have any additional patents issued from any patent applications that we own or license. If additional patents are granted, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, issued patents that we own or license may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products, and we may not be able to obtain patent term extension to prolong the terms of the principal patents covering our approved products. Changes in patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. The U.S. Congress is considering patent reform legislation. In addition, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled on several patent cases in recent years, either narrowing the scope of patent protection available in certain circumstances or weakening the rights of patent owners in certain situations. This combination of events has created uncertainty with respect to the value of patents, once obtained, and with regard to our ability to obtain patents in the future. Depending on decisions by the U.S. Congress, the federal courts, and the PTO, the laws and regulations governing patents could change in unpredictable ways that would weaken our ability to obtain new patents or to enforce our existing patents and patents that we might obtain in the future. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that others have not filed or maintained patent applications for technology used by us or covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of these applications. We exclusively licensed patents and patent applications for Angiomax, Cleviprex and each of our other products in development other than MDCO-2010. The U.S. patents licensed by us are currently set to expire at various dates. We have filed an application for U.S. patent term extension for Cleviprex and plan to file applications for U.S. patent term extension for our products in development upon their approval by the FDA. If we do not receive patent term extensions for the periods requested by us or at all, our patent protection for Cleviprex and our products in development could be limited. We are a party to a number of lawsuits that we brought against pharmaceutical companies that have notified us that they have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Angiomax. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. Involvement in litigation, regardless of its outcome, is time-consuming and expensive and may divert our management’s time and attention. During the period in which these matters are pending, the uncertainty of their outcome may cause our stock price to decline. An adverse result in these matters whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final, unappealable, adverse result in these matters will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions and cause our stock price to decline. 47 Table of Contents We may be unable to utilize the Chemilog process if Lonza Braine breaches our agreement Our agreement with Lonza Braine for the supply of Angiomax bulk drug substance requires that Lonza Braine transfer the technology that was used to develop the Chemilog process to a secondary supplier of Angiomax bulk drug substance or to us or an alternate supplier at the expiration of the agreement, which is currently scheduled to occur in September 2013, but is subject to automatic renewals of consecutive three-year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal at least one year prior to the expiration of the initial term or any renewal term. If Lonza Braine fails or is unable to transfer successfully this technology, we would be unable to employ the Chemilog process to manufacture our Angiomax bulk drug substance, which could cause us to experience delays in the manufacturing process and increase our manufacturing costs in the future. If we are not able to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and information may be used by others to compete against us We rely significantly upon unpatented proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how. We seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third-party contractors, as well as through other security measures. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach by a party to these confidentiality agreements. In addition, our competitors may learn or independently develop our trade secrets. If our confidential information or trade secrets become publicly known, they may lose their value to us. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties our business may be adversely affected Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the PTO and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. 48 Table of Contents Risks Related to Growth and Employees If we fail to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products, it will impair our ability to grow our business We have sold and generated revenue from two products, Angiomax and Cleviprex. In order to generate additional revenue, our business plan is to acquire or license, and then develop and market, additional product candidates or approved products. In 2008 and 2009, for instance, we acquired Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, licensed marketing rights to the ready-to-use formulation of Argatroban and licensed development and commercialization rights to MDCO-216. The success of this growth strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire or license pharmaceutical products that meet the criteria we have established. Because we have only the limited internal scientific research capabilities that we acquired in our acquisitions of Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, and we do not anticipate establishing additional scientific research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license product candidates to us. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition or license of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We may not be successful in developing and commercializing product candidates or approved products we acquire We need to integrate any acquired products into our existing operations. Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. In addition, managing the development of a new product entails numerous financial and operational risks, including difficulties in attracting qualified employees to develop the product. Any product candidate we acquire or license will require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, any approved products that we acquire may not be: • manufactured or produced economically; • successfully commercialized; or • widely accepted in the marketplace. We have previously acquired or licensed rights to products and, after having conducted development activities, determined not to devote further resources to those products. Any additional products that we acquire or license may not be successfully developed. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and consultants Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for the acquisition, development and commercialization activities we conduct or sponsor. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Clive A. Meanwell, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Glenn P. Sblendorio, or other key employees or consultants, our ability to implement successfully our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Our ability to replace these key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to acquire, develop and 49 Table of Contents commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate such additional personnel. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our common stock Our operating results may vary from period to period based on factors including the amount and timing of sales of Angiomax and Cleviprex, underlying hospital demand for Angiomax and Cleviprex, our customers’ buying patterns, the timing, expenses and results of clinical trials, announcements regarding clinical trial results and product introductions by us or our competitors, the availability and timing of third-party reimbursement, including in Europe, sales and marketing expenses and the timing of regulatory approvals. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors as a result of these or other factors, the trading price of our common stock will likely decrease. Our stock price has been and may in the future be volatile. This volatility may make it difficult for you to sell common stock when you want or at attractive prices Our common stock has been and in the future may be subject to substantial price volatility. From January 1, 2008 to March 5, 2011, the last reported sale price of our common stock ranged from a high of $27.68 per share to a low of $6.47 per share. The value of your investment could decline due to the effect of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in valuations of similar companies; • variations in our operating results; • acquisitions and strategic partnerships; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • disclosure of results of clinical testing or regulatory proceedings by us or our competitors; • the timing, amount and receipt of revenue from sales of our products and margins on sales of our products; • governmental regulation and approvals; • developments in patent rights or other proprietary rights, particularly with respect to our U.S. Angiomax patents; • the extent to which Angiomax is commercially successful globally; • whether the federal district court order requiring the PTO to consider our application to extend the term of the ‘404 patent timely filed is successfully challenged either by APP in its pending appeal or by APP or a third party in a separate challenge; • the terms of any settlements with Biogen Idec, HRI or the law firm with which we have not settled our claims with respect to the ‘404 patent and the PTO’s initial denial of our application to extend the term of the patent; • developments or issues with our contract manufacturers; • changes in our management; and • general market conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of specialty pharmaceutical companies have been highly volatile. Moreover, broad market and industry fluctuations that are not within our control may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. You 50 Table of Contents must be willing to bear the risk of fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the risk that the value of your investment in our securities could decline. Our corporate governance structure, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law, may prevent a change in control or management that security holders may consider desirable Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company or discourage a third party from attempting to take over our company. These provisions include the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings, a classified board of directors and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock or our other securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 