ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. The risks, uncertainties and other factors set forth below may cause our actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. If any of these risks or events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business A decline in general global economic conditions could lead to disproportionately reduced consumer demand for our products, which represent relatively discretionary spending, and have an adverse effect on our liquidity and profitability. Since purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our guests, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A continued slowdown in the United States, Canadian or European economies or uncertainty as to the economic outlook could reduce discretionary spending or cause a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products. Any of these factors would likely result in lower net sales and could also result in excess inventories, which could, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns and related costs associated with higher levels of inventory and adversely affect our liquidity and profitability. For example, the slower economy in the United States and Europe has caused our sales to decline and led us to slow our growth plans. A decrease in the customer traffic generated by the shopping malls in which we are located, which we depend upon to attract guests to our stores, could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. While we invest heavily in integrated marketing efforts and believe we are more of a destination location than traditional retailers, we rely to a great extent on customer traffic in the malls in which our stores are located. In order to generate guest traffic, we generally attempt to locate our stores in prominent locations within high traffic shopping malls. We rely on the ability of the malls’ anchor tenants, generally large department stores, and on the continuing popularity of malls as shopping destinations. We cannot control the development of new shopping malls, the addition or loss of anchors and co-tenants, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new shopping malls or the desirability, safety or success of shopping malls. In addition, customer mall traffic may be reduced due to a loss of consumer confidence because of the economy, terrorism or war. If we are unable to generate sufficient guest traffic, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. A significant decrease in shopping mall traffic could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. For example, we have experienced a decline in transactions at comparable locations over the past several years. If we are unable to generate interest in and demand for our interactive retail experience, including being able to identify and respond to consumer preferences in a timely manner, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. We believe that our success depends in large part upon our ability to continue to attract guests with our interactive shopping experience and our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond in a timely manner to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. We cannot assure you that our past success will be sustained or there will continue to be a demand for our “make-your-own stuffed animal” interactive experience, or for our stuffed animals, animal apparel and accessories. A decline in demand for our interactive shopping experience, our animals, animal apparel or accessories, or a misjudgment of consumer preferences or fashion trends, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2008 we announced plans to close the Friends 2B Made concept. The closure was completed by the end of the fiscal 2009 third quarter with pre-tax charges totaling $3.9 million. In addition, if we miscalculate the market for our merchandise or the purchasing preferences of our guests, we may be required to sell a significant amount of our inventory at discounted prices or even below costs, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition and profitability. For example, in 2007, we wrote-off $1.6 million, net of tax, of inventory, including excess Shrek® merchandise. 9 Our future growth and profitability could be adversely affected if our marketing and online initiatives are not effective in generating sufficient levels of brand awareness and guest traffic or if consumer preferences change significantly. We continue to update and evaluate our marketing initiatives, focusing on brand awareness, new product news, timely promotions and rapidly changing consumer preferences. We may not be able to successfully engage children in our virtual world website, bearville.com, achieve high enough traffic levels nor be able to leverage the site to drive traffic to our stores and choose to discontinue operating the site. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing and advertising programs and future marketing and advertising efforts that we undertake, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our brand, interactive shopping experience and products; • identify the most effective and efficient level of spending in each market; • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for marketing expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs (including creative and media) in order to maintain acceptable operating margins and return on marketing investment; • select the right geographic areas in which to market; • convert consumer awareness into actual store visits and product purchases; and • reach a level of engagement on the virtual world Web site with large numbers of unique visitors with frequent visitation that drives visits to our retail stores resulting in purchases. Our planned marketing expenditures may not result in increased total or comparable store sales or generate sufficient levels of product and brand awareness. We may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. If we are unable to increase our comparable store sales trends, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our comparable store sales for 2012 declined 3.3% following a 2.1% decline in 2011, following a 2.0% decline in 2010, a 13.4% decline in fiscal 2009 and a 14.0% decline in fiscal 2008. We believe that the decrease in 2012 was primarily attributable to a decline in transactions compared to 2011, specifically in the third quarter and the negative economic conditions in the UK that we believe contributed to a decline in consumer spending. We believe that the decrease in 2011 was primarily attributable to the underperformance of certain licensed movie products in the fourth quarter. We believe that global economic conditions continued to impact our comparable store sales in 2010. We believe that the decrease in fiscal 2009 was primarily attributable to the continued economic recession and dramatic decrease in consumer sentiment and the decline in North American shopping mall traffic. We believe that the decrease in 2008 was primarily attributable to the economic recession and decrease in consumer disposable income, a continued decline in shopping mall customer traffic and changes in media strategies, online entertainment, children’s media consumption and play patterns. We believe the principal factors that will affect comparable store results include the following: • the continuing appeal of our concept; • the effectiveness of our marketing efforts to attract new and repeat guests; • consumer confidence and general economic conditions; • the impact of changes in governmental policies on consumer sentiment and discretionary spending levels as happened in the UK • the impact of store closures, relocations and openings in existing markets; • the impact of our new store design; • our ability to anticipate and to respond, in a timely manner, to consumer trends; • the continued introduction and expansion of our merchandise offerings; • mall traffic; • competition for product offerings including in the online space; • the timing and frequency of national media appearances and other public relations events; and • weather conditions. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to generate or achieve comparable stores sales growth in the future. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations could be significantly harmed and we may be required to record significant impairment charges. 10 Our strategy requires us to operate a significant number of stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as close, relocate and open store locations in these countries. If we are not able to operate these stores or to effectively manage the overall portfolio of our stores, it could adversely affect our ability to grow and could significantly harm our profitability. Our future results will largely depend on our ability to operate our stores successfully in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland and optimizing store productivity and profitability by closing select stores, relocating and downsizing other stores and remodeling and opening select stores in a new design. Through 2008 we had opened over 300 stores and acquired 40 in the UK. Since then we slowed net store growth considerably with one net closure in both 2009 and 2010 and three net closures in 2011, exclusive of temporary locations. In 2012, we announced a plan to reduce our store count in North America to 225 to 250 stores. We plan to achieve this with 50 to 60 additional closures by the end of 2014. This is in addition to the 10 locations closed in 2012 and 12 locations closed in 2011. Our ability to manage our portfolio of stores in future years in desirable locations and operate stores profitably, particularly in multi-store markets, is a key factor in our ability to grow successfully. We cannot assure you as to when or whether desirable locations will become available, the number of Build-A-Bear Workshop stores that we can or will ultimately open, or whether any such new or relocated stores can be profitably operated. We have not always succeeded in identifying desirable locations or in operating our stores successfully in those locations. For example, in 2012, 2011 and 2010, we closed two, five and four locations, respectively, prior to the expiration of their respective leases. Prior to 2010, we had closed four stores since our inception (excluding four stores that we closed in connection with our 2006 acquisition of Amsbra and The Bear Factory in the UK). We may decide to close other stores in the future. Our ability to successfully manage our portfolio of stores also depends on our ability to: • negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; • finance the costs of closing, relocating and opening stores, including, severance and termination fees for store closures and capital expenditures and working capital requirements of the new and relocated stores; • manage inventory to meet the needs of new and existing stores on a timely basis; • hire, train and retain qualified store personnel; • develop cooperative relationships with our landlords; and • successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations. In July 2005, we opened our flagship store in New York City. This store is much larger than our typical mall-based stores and as such, we may be unable to generate revenues from this store at a level that justifies keeping the store open. Closing this store could not only have an adverse impact on our sales if we are unable to establish other retail locations within the market, but, as our flagship store, it could also have an adverse impact on the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand and consumer perception of our brand. Increased demands on our operational, managerial and administrative resources as a result of our store strategy could cause us to operate our business less effectively, which in turn could cause deterioration in our profitability. Additionally, closing multiple stores could have an adverse impact on the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand and consumer perception of our brand. We may not be able to operate our foreign company-owned stores in the United Kingdom and Ireland profitably. In April 2006, we acquired The Bear Factory Limited, a stuffed animal retailer in the United Kingdom owned by The Hamleys Group Limited, and Amsbra Limited, our former United Kingdom franchisee (the UK Acquisition). Both The Bear Factory and Amsbra had losses prior to our acquisition. Although we have realized some benefits from these operations as part of our larger company, we may be unable to continue to do so on a consistent basis. In particular, we face business, regulatory and cultural differences from our domestic business, such as economic conditions, changes in foreign government policies and regulations and potential restrictions and costs to convert and repatriate currency, as well as other risks that we may not anticipate. We also face difficulties realizing benefits because we have less brand awareness than in the U.S., face higher labor and rent costs, and have different holiday schedules. In 2007, we terminated our French franchise agreement and opened three company-owned stores in France. We were unable to operate the stores in France profitably and in 2010, we closed all three of our company-owned stores in France. Additionally in 2012, we recognized an impairment charge on all of the goodwill associated with our UK acquisition along with the store assets at certain store locations with poor operating results. Our leases in the United Kingdom and Ireland also typically contain provisions requiring rent reviews every five years in which the base rent that we pay is adjusted to current market rates. These rent reviews require that base rents cannot be reduced if market conditions have deteriorated but can be changed “upwards only”. We may be required to pay base rents that are significantly higher than we have forecast. For example, past rent reviews have resulted in increases as high as 40% in select locations within the United Kingdom. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to operate our European store locations profitably. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed and we may be required to record significant additional impairment charges. 11 If we are unable to renew, renegotiate or replace our store leases or enter into leases for new stores on favorable terms, or if we violate any of the terms of our current leases, our growth and profitability could be harmed. We lease all of our store locations. The majority of our store leases contain provisions for base rent plus percentage rent based on sales in excess of an agreed upon minimum annual sales level. A number of our leases include a termination provision which applies if we do not meet certain sales levels during a specified period, typically in the third to fourth year and the sixth to seventh year of the lease, which may be at either the landlord’s options or ours. Furthermore, some of our leases contain various restrictions relating to change of control of our company. Our leases also subject us to risks relating to compliance with changing mall rules and the exercise of discretion by our landlords on various matters within the malls. In addition, the lease for our store in the Downtown Disney® District at the Disneyland® Resort in Anaheim, California currently expires in 2013 and we have not reached agreement on renewal terms. This lease provides that the landlord may terminate the lease at any time, subject to the payment of an early termination fee. As a result, we cannot assure you that the landlord will not exercise its right to terminate this lease. In addition, most of our other leases will expire within the next ten years and many of our initial leases are near completion and do not contain options to renew. We may not be offered a lease renewal by our landlord, may not be able to renew leases under favorable economic terms or maintain our existing store location thereby requiring additional capital expenditure to move the store location within the mall. Those locations may be in parts of the mall that have less traffic or be positioned further from our desired co-tenants and our ongoing sales and profitability results may be negatively affected. The terms of new leases may not be as favorable, increasing store expenses and impacting overall profitability. If we execute termination rights, we may have expenses and charges associated with those closures which could negatively impact our profitability. Our merchandise is manufactured by foreign manufacturers and we transact business in various foreign countries; therefore the availability and costs of our products, as well as our product pricing, may be negatively affected by risks associated with international manufacturing and trade and foreign currency fluctuations. We purchase our merchandise from domestic vendors who contract with manufacturers in foreign countries, primarily in China. Any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions or labor strikes or lock-outs, could adversely affect our business. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, especially China, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. We are subject to trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell as well as to raw material imported to manufacture those products. Such tariffs or quotas are subject to change. Our compliance with the regulations is subject to interpretation and review by applicable authorities. Change in regulations or interpretation could negatively impact our operations by increasing the cost of and reducing the supply of products available to us. In addition, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, particularly the Chinese renminbi, could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors. The pricing of our products in our stores may also be affected by changes in foreign currency rates and require us to make adjustments which would impact our revenue and profit in various markets. We may suffer negative publicity or be sued if the manufacturers of our merchandise ship any products that do not meet current safety standards or production requirements or if our products are recalled or cause injuries. Although we require our manufacturers to meet our product specifications and safety standards and submit our products for testing, we cannot control the materials used by our manufacturers. If one of these manufacturers ships merchandise that does not meet our required standards, we could in turn experience negative publicity or be sued. Many of our products are used by small children and infants who may be injured from usage if age grading or warnings are not followed. We may decide or be required to recall products or be subject to claims or lawsuits resulting from injuries. For example, we have voluntarily recalled four products in the past four years due to possible safety issues. While the vendors have historically reimbursed us for certain, related expenses, negative publicity in the event of any recall or if any children are injured from our products could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products and our business, and related recalls or lawsuits with respect to such injuries could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Additionally, we could incur fines related to consumer product safety issues from the regulatory authorities in the countries in which we operate. Although we currently have liability insurance, we cannot assure you that it would cover product recalls or related fines, and we face the risk that claims or liabilities will exceed our insurance coverage. Furthermore, we may not be able to maintain adequate liability insurance in the future. We may not be able to operate successfully if we lose key personnel, are unable to hire qualified additional personnel, or experience turnover of our management team. The success of our business depends upon our senior management closely supervising all aspects of our business, in particular the operation of our stores and the design, procurement and allocation of our merchandise. Also, because guest service is a defining feature of the Build-A-Bear Workshop experience, we must be able to hire and train qualified managers and Bear Builder associates to succeed. The loss of certain key employees, our inability to attract and retain other qualified key employees or a labor shortage that reduces the pool of qualified store associates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not maintain key person insurance with respect to our executives. For example, in January 2013, we announced that Ms. Maxine Clark, our Founder and Chief Executive Bear (CEB) would be retiring from her position as CEB of Build-A-Bear Workshop, Inc. and that a search would be conducted to identify her replacement. Ms. Clark currently intends to remain with the company until a replacement is hired and intends to remain on our Board of Directors. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract a successor that can continue to drive the execution of the company’s strategic initiatives as well as contribute additional strategic thought leadership to our company. We may not be able to retain all senior management or associates during the transition period and integration period of the new CEB. 12 We have also announced our plans to close 50 to 60 additional stores by the end of 2014. To the extent available, managers and associates will be offered opportunities at nearby stores. This may lead to higher company turnover. In addition, having fewer stores will limit promotion opportunities in the future for current associates, which may have a negative impact on our ability to retain quality employees, which may in turn have a negative impact on our results of operations. We rely on a few vendors to supply substantially all of our merchandise, and significant price increases or any disruption in their ability to deliver merchandise could harm our ability to source products and supply inventory to our stores. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. We purchased approximately 80% of our merchandise in fiscal 2012, approximately 81% in fiscal 2011 and approximately 73% in fiscal 2010 from three vendors. Our 2010 purchases included a significant purchase of non-proprietary toy products that were incremental to our traditional purchasing. Excluding these purchases, we purchased approximately 80% of our merchandise from three vendors. These vendors in turn contract for our orders with multiple manufacturing facilities located primarily in China for the production of merchandise. Our relationships with our vendors generally are on a purchase order basis and do not provide a contractual obligation to provide adequate supply or acceptable pricing on a long-term basis. Our vendors could discontinue sourcing merchandise for us at any time. If any of our significant vendors were to discontinue their relationship with us, or if the factories with which they contract were to suffer a disruption in their production, we may be unable to replace the vendors in a timely manner, which could result in short-term disruption to our inventory flow or quality of the inventory as we transition our orders to new vendors or factories which could, in turn, disrupt our store operations and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example in 2011, one factory used by one of our vendors closed unexpectedly, causing us to quickly switch factories for one product, affecting the quality and flow of the product. Additionally, in the event of a significant price increase from these suppliers, we may not be able to find alternative sources of supply in a timely manner or raise prices to offset the increases, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could be adversely affected by high petroleum products prices. The profitability of our business depends to a certain degree upon the price of petroleum products, both as a component of the transportation costs for delivery of inventory from our vendors to our stores and as a raw material used in the production of our animal skins and stuffing. For example, our results in fiscal 2012, 2011, 2008 and 2007 were impacted by significant increases in fuel surcharges due to higher petroleum products prices. We are unable to predict what the price of crude oil and the resulting petroleum products will be in the future. We may be unable to pass along to our customers the increased costs that would result from higher petroleum prices. Therefore, any such increase could have an adverse impact on our business and profitability. If we are not able to franchise new stores outside of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, if we are unable to effectively manage our international franchises or if the laws relating to our international franchises change, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected and we could be exposed to additional liability. In 2003, we began to expand the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand outside of the United States, opening company-owned stores in Canada and our first franchised location in the United Kingdom. We have continued to expand outside of our company-owned regions through franchising in a number of countries. As of December 29, 2012, there were 91 Build-A-Bear Workshop franchised stores located outside of the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will be successful in identifying and securing desirable locations or in operating their stores. International markets frequently have different demographic characteristics, competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing North American and European markets, which may cause these stores to be less successful than those in our existing markets. Additionally, our franchisees may experience financing, merchandising and distribution expenses and challenges that are different from those we currently encounter in our existing markets. The operations and results of our franchisees could be negatively impacted by the economic or political factors in the countries in which they operate or foreign currency fluctuations. These challenges, as well as others, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our franchising strategy will depend upon our ability to attract and maintain qualified franchisees with sufficient financial resources to develop and grow the franchise operation and upon the ability of those franchisees to successfully develop and operate their franchised stores. Franchisees may not operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, may not hire and train qualified managers and other store personnel and may not operate their stores profitably. As a result, our franchising strategy may not be profitable to us. Moreover, our brand image and reputation may suffer. When franchisees perform below expectations we may transfer those agreements to other parties or discontinue the franchise agreement. Furthermore, even if our international franchising strategy is successful, the interests of franchisees might sometimes conflict with our interests. For example, whereas franchisees are concerned with their individual business strategies and objectives, we are responsible for ensuring the success of the Build-A-Bear Workshop brand and all of our stores. The laws of the various foreign countries in which our franchisees operate govern our relationships with our franchisees. These laws, and any new laws that may be enacted, may detrimentally affect the rights and obligations between us and our franchisees and could expose us to additional liability. 13 Portions of our business are subject to privacy and security risks. If we improperly obtain, or are unable to protect, information from our guests, in violation of privacy or security laws or expectations, we could be subject to liability and damage to our reputation. Our Web site, bearville.com, features children’s games and in world e-mail and chat system. In addition, our e-commerce site, buildabear.com, features e-cards and printable party invitations and thank-you notes and provides an opportunity for children under the age of 13 to sign up, with the consent of their parent or guardian, to receive our online newsletter. We currently obtain and retain personal information about our Web site users, store shoppers and Stuff Fur Stuff loyalty program members. In addition, we obtain personal information about our guests as part of their registration in our Find-A-Bear identification system. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted or may enact laws or regulations regarding the collection and use of personal information, with particular emphasis on the collection of information regarding minors. Such regulations include or may include requirements that companies establish procedures to: • give adequate notice regarding information collection and disclosure practices; • allow consumers to have personal information deleted from a company’s database; • provide consumers with access to their personal information and the ability to rectify inaccurate information; • obtain express parental consent prior to collecting and using personal information from children; and • comply with the Federal Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act. Such regulation may also include enforcement and redress provisions. While we have implemented programs and procedures designed to protect the privacy of people, including children, from whom we collect information, and our websites are designed to be fully compliant with the Federal Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, there can be no assurance that such programs will conform to all applicable laws or regulations. If we fail to fully comply, we may be subjected to liability and damage to our reputation. We have a stringent, comprehensive privacy policy covering the information we collect from our guests and have established security features to protect our guest database and website. However, our security measures may not prevent security breaches. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. If unauthorized third parties were able to penetrate our network security and gain access to, or otherwise misappropriate, our guests’ personal information, it could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business and we could be subject to liability. Such liability could include claims for misuse of personal information or unauthorized use of credit cards. These claims could result in litigation, our involvement in which, regardless of the outcome, could require us to expend significant financial resources. In addition, because our guest database primarily includes personal information of young children and young children frequently interact with our website, we are potentially vulnerable to charges from parents, children’s organizations, governmental entities, and the media of engaging in inappropriate collection, distribution or other use of data collected from children. Such charges could adversely impact guest relationships and ultimately cause a decrease in net sales and also expose us to litigation and possible liability. Our virtual world Web site, primarily for children, bearville.com, allows social interaction between users. While we have security features and chat monitoring, our security measures may not protect users’ identities and our online safety measures may be questioned which may result in negative publicity or a decrease in visitors to our site. If site users act inappropriately or seek unauthorized contact with other users of the site, it could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business and we could be subject to liability. Internet privacy is a rapidly changing area and we may be subject to future requirements and legislation that are costly to implement and negatively impact our results. We may suffer negative publicity or be sued if the manufacturers of our merchandise violate labor laws or engage in practices that our guests believe are unethical. We rely on our sourcing personnel to select manufacturers with legal and ethical labor practices, but we cannot control the business and labor practices of our manufacturers. If one of these manufacturers violates labor laws or other applicable regulations or is accused of violating these laws and regulations, or if such a manufacturer engages in labor or other practices that diverge from those typically acceptable in the United States, we could in turn experience negative publicity or be sued. We may suffer negative publicity or a decrease in sales or profitability if the non-proprietary toy products we sell in our stores do not meet our quality standards or fail to achieve our sales expectations. We expect to expand our product assortment to include interactive toy products manufactured by other toy companies. If sales of such products do not meet our expectations or are impacted by competitors’ pricing, we may have to take markdowns or employ other strategies to liquidate the product. If other toy companies do not meet quality standards or violate any manufacturing or labor laws, we suffer negative publicity and not realize our sales plans. We rely on a company-owned distribution center to service the majority of our stores in North America, and our third-party distribution center providers used in the western United States and Europe may perform poorly. The efficient operation of our stores is dependent on our ability to distribute merchandise to locations throughout the United States, Canada and Europe in a timely manner. We have a 350,000-square-foot distribution center in Groveport, Ohio. We rely on this company-owned distribution center to receive, store and distribute merchandise for the majority of our North America stores. We rely on third parties to manage all of the warehousing and distribution aspects of our business on the West Coast of the United States and in Europe. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution centers due to natural disasters and severe weather, as well as events such as fire, accidents, power outages, system failures or other unforeseen causes could damage a significant portion of our inventory. These factors may also impair our ability to adequately stock our stores and could decrease our sales and increase our costs associated with our supply chain. 14 Our market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment characterized by low barriers to entry. We compete against a diverse group of competitors. Because we are mall-based, we see our competition as those mall-based retailers that compete for prime mall locations, including various apparel, footwear and specialty retailers. As a retailer whose signature product is a stuffed animal that is typically purchased as a toy or gift, we also compete with toy retailers, such as Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, Target, Kmart and other discount chains, as well as with a number of manufacturers that sell plush toys in the United States and Canada, including, but not limited to, Ty, Fisher Price, Mattel, Ganz, Russ Berrie, Applause, Boyds, Hasbro, Commonwealth, Gund and Vermont Teddy Bear. Since we offer our guests an experience as well as merchandise, we also view our competition as any company that competes for our guests’ time and entertainment dollars, such as movie theaters, restaurants, amusement parks and arcades. In addition, there are several small companies that operate “make your own” teddy bear and stuffed animal experiences in retail stores and kiosks. Although we believe that currently none of these companies offers the breadth and depth of the Build-A-Bear Workshop products and experience, we cannot assure you that they will not compete directly with us in the future. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources, and greater name recognition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully with them in the future, particularly in geographic locations that represent new markets for us. If we fail to compete successfully, our market share and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We also believe that there is an emerging trend within children’s play patterns towards electronic toys, internet and online play. According to Emarketer.com, kids aged eight to eleven reported that they spend between one and two hours online each day. We believe our Web site, bearville.com, competes with other companies and internet sites that vie for children’s attention in the online space including webkinz.com, clubpenguin.com and neopets.com. A growing number of traditional children’s toy and entertainment companies have also developed their own virtual world online play sites including Barbie.com® and McWorld. We cannot assure you that children’s preferences for our products will remain strong or that our on line Web site for children, bearville.com, will be successful in attracting children to our brand. If children decide to engage with other products or Web sites, our sales will be negatively impacted and our results will be materially impacted. We may fail to renew, register or otherwise protect our trademarks or other intellectual property and may be sued by third parties for infringement or, misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could be costly, distract our management and personnel and which could result in the diminution in value of our trademarks and other important intellectual property. Other parties have asserted in the past, and may assert in the future, trademark, patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We cannot assure you that others will not seek to block the use of or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of our brand names or other intellectual property or the sale of our products or services as a violation of their trademark, patent or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of intellectual property in the U.S. or foreign countries for similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights of which we are not aware. In all such countries it may be possible for any third party owner of a national trademark registration or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. Securing registrations does not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various grounds. Poor global economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. In 2008 and 2009, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world deteriorated significantly. These conditions adversely affected borrowers’ access to capital and increased the cost of capital. Although we believe that our capital structure and credit facilities will provide sufficient liquidity, there can be no assurance that our liquidity will not be affected by changes in the capital markets or that our capital resources will at all times be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity needs. Capital market conditions may affect the renewal or replacement of our credit agreement, which was originally entered into in 2000 and has been extended annually since then and currently expires December 31, 2014. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations could cause the price of our common stock to substantially decline. Retailers generally are subject to fluctuations in quarterly results. Our operating results for one period may not be indicative of results for other periods, and may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • the profitability of our stores; • increases or decreases in comparable store sales; • changes in general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns; 15 • seasonal shopping patterns, including whether the Easter holiday occurs in the first or second quarter and other school holiday schedules; • the effectiveness of our inventory management; • the timing and frequency of our marketing initiatives; • changes in consumer preferences; • the continued introduction and expansion of merchandise offerings; • actions of competitors or mall anchors and co-tenants; • weather conditions; • the timing of store closures, relocations and openings and related expenses; and • the timing and frequency of national media appearances and other public relations events. If our future quarterly results fluctuate significantly or fail to meet the expectations of the investment community, then the market price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our operating results could reduce our cash flow and we may be unable to repurchase shares at all or at the times or in the amounts we desire or the results of the share repurchase program may not be as beneficial as we would like. Our Board of Directors has implemented a $50 million share repurchase program. The program does not require the Company to repurchase any specific number of shares of our common stock, and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time without prior notice. Shares repurchased under the program will be subsequently retired. If our cash flow decreases as a result of decreased sales, increased expenses or capital expenditures or other uses of cash, we may not be able to repurchase shares of our common stock at all or at times or in the amounts we desire. As a result, the results of the share repurchase program may not be as beneficial as we would like. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may prevent or frustrate attempts to replace or remove our current management by our stockholders, even if such replacement or removal may be in our stockholders’ best interests. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions: • restrict various types of business combinations with significant stockholders; • provide for a classified board of directors; • limit the right of stockholders to remove directors or change the size of the board of directors; • limit the right of stockholders to fill vacancies on the board of directors; • limit the right of stockholders to act by written consent and to call a special meeting of stockholders or propose other actions; • require a higher percentage of stockholders than would otherwise be required to amend, alter, change or repeal our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation; and • authorize the issuance of preferred stock with any voting rights, dividend rights, conversion privileges, redemption rights and liquidation rights and other rights, preferences, privileges, powers, qualifications, limitations or restrictions as may be specified by our board of directors. These provisions may: • discourage, delay or prevent a change in the control of our company or a change in our management, even if such change may be in the best interests of our stockholders; • adversely affect the voting power of holders of common stock; and • limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 16 