Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall. Risks Related to Our Financial Results We have a history of net losses and may not maintain profitability on an annual basis Except for 2004 and 2006, we have incurred net losses on an annual basis since our inception. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $344.2 million. We expect to make substantial expenditures to further develop and commercialize our products, including costs and expenses associated with clinical trials, nonclinical and preclinical studies, regulatory approvals and commercialization. Although we achieved profitability in 2004 and in 2006, we have not been profitable in any year since 2006. We will likely need to generate significantly greater revenue in future periods to achieve and maintain profitability in light of our planned expenditures. If we are unable to extend the patent term of the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax beyond March 23, 2010 and our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax are not sufficient to provide market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States, Angiomax could be subject to generic competition as early as September 23, 2010. In such event, our ability to generate this revenue will be adversely impacted, possibly materially. We may not achieve profitability in future periods or at all, and we may not be able to maintain profitability for any substantial period of time. If we fail to achieve profitability or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis within the time frame expected by investors or securities analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our business is very dependent on the commercial success of Angiomax Angiomax has accounted for substantially all of our revenue since we began selling this product in 2000. Until the approval of Cleviprex by the FDA in August 2008, Angiomax was our only commercial product. We expect revenues from Angiomax to continue to account for substantially all of our revenues in 2010. The commercial success of Angiomax depends upon: 26 Table of Contents • the outcome of our efforts to extend the patent term of the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax and the degree of market exclusivity in the United States provided by our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax; • the continued acceptance by regulators, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers of Angiomax as a safe, therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to heparin and other products used in current practice or currently being developed; • our ability to further develop Angiomax for use in additional patient populations and the clinical data we generate to support expansion of the product label; • the overall number of PCI procedures performed; • our success in selling and marketing Angiox in Europe; • the impact of competition from competitive products and generic versions of Angiomax and those competitive products; and • the extent to which we and our international distributors are successful in marketing Angiomax. We intend to continue to develop Angiomax for use in additional patient populations. Even if we are successful in expanding the Angiomax label, the expanded label may not result in higher revenue or income on a continuing basis. As of December 31, 2009, our inventory of Angiomax was $24.3 million and we had inventory-related purchase commitments to Lonza Braine totaling $26.1 million for 2010 and $19.1 million for 2011 for Angiomax bulk drug substance. If sales of Angiomax were to decline, we could be required to make an allowance for excess or obsolete inventory or increase our accrual for product returns. Our revenue has been substantially dependent on our sole source distributor, ICS, and a limited number of domestic wholesalers and international distributors involved in the sale of our products, and such revenue may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of such distributor, wholesalers and distribution partners We distribute Angiomax and Cleviprex in the United States through a sole source distribution model. Under this model, we sell Angiomax and Cleviprex to our sole source distributor, ICS, which then sells Angiomax and Cleviprex to a limited number of national medical and pharmaceutical wholesalers with distribution centers located throughout the United States and, in certain cases, directly to hospitals. Our revenue from sales of Angiomax in the United States is now exclusively from sales to ICS. We anticipate that our revenue from sales of Cleviprex in the United States will be exclusively from sales to ICS. As a result, we expect that our revenue will continue to be subject to fluctuation from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of ICS. In some countries outside the European Union, we sell Angiomax to international distributors and these distributors then sell Angiomax to hospitals. Our reliance on a small number of distributors for international sales of Angiomax could cause our revenue to fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the buying patterns of these distributors, regardless of underlying hospital demand. If inventory levels at ICS or at our international distributors become too high, these distributors may seek to reduce their inventory levels by reducing purchases from us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our revenue in periods in which such purchase reductions occur. Failure to achieve our revenue targets or raise additional funds in the future may require us to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned activities We expect to devote substantial resources to our research and development efforts and to our sales, marketing and manufacturing programs associated with Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. Our funding requirements to support these efforts and programs depend upon many factors, including: • the extent to which Angiomax is commercially successful globally; • the outcome of our efforts to extend the patent term of the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax and the degree of market exclusivity in the United States provided by our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax; 27 Table of Contents • the terms of any settlements with Biogen Idec or the two law firms with respect to the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax and the PTO’s denial of our application to extend the term of the patent; • our ability to resupply the market with Cleviprex and the extent to which Cleviprex is commercially successful in the United States; • the extent to which we can successfully establish a commercial infrastructure outside the United States; • the cost of acquisitions or licensing of development-stage products, approved products, or businesses and strategic or licensing arrangements with companies that fit within our growth strategy; • the progress, level, timing and cost of our research and development activities related to our clinical trials and non-clinical studies with respect to Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development; • the cost and outcomes of regulatory submissions and reviews for approval of Cleviprex outside the United States and New Zealand and of our products in development globally; • the continuation or termination of third-party manufacturing and sales and marketing arrangements; • the size, cost and effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs globally; • the amounts of our payment obligations to third parties as to Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development; and • our ability to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights. If our existing resources, together with revenues that we generate from sales of our products and other sources, are insufficient to satisfy our funding requirements, or if we determine that raising additional capital would be in our interest and the interests of our stockholders, we may sell equity or debt securities or seek additional financing through other arrangements. Any sale of equity or debt securities may result in dilution to our stockholders. Any debt financing may involve covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt or making capital expenditures. Public or private financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we seek to raise funds through collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may be required to relinquish rights to products, products in development or technologies that we would not otherwise relinquish or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our planned research, development and commercialization activities, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Commercialization Angiomax competes with all categories of anticoagulant drugs, which may limit the use of Angiomax and adversely affect our revenue Due to the incidence and severity of cardiovascular diseases, the market for anticoagulant therapies is large and competition is intense. There are a number of anticoagulant drugs currently on the market, awaiting regulatory approval and in development, including orally administered agents, which we compete with or may compete with in the future. Angiomax competes with these anticoagulant drugs to the extent Angiomax and any of these anticoagulant drugs are approved for the same or similar indications. We have positioned Angiomax to compete primarily with heparin, platelet inhibitors such as GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, and treatment regimens combining heparin and GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors. Because heparin is inexpensive and has been widely used for many years, physicians and medical decision-makers may be hesitant to adopt Angiomax instead of heparin. GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors that Angiomax competes with include ReoPro from Eli Lilly and Johnson & Johnson/Centocor, Inc., Integrilin from Schering-Plough Corporation, and Aggrastat from Iroko Pharmaceuticals, LLC and MediCure Inc. GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors are widely used and some physicians believe they offer superior efficacy in high risk patients. Physicians may chose to use heparin combined with GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors due their years of experience with this combination therapy and reluctance to change existing hospital protocols and pathways. Angiomax may compete with other anticoagulant drugs for the use of hospital financial resources. For example, many U.S. hospitals receive a fixed reimbursement amount per procedure for the angioplasties and other treatment therapies they perform. 28 Table of Contents As this amount is not based on the actual expenses the hospital incurs, hospitals may choose to use either Angiomax or other anticoagulant drugs but not necessarily several of the drugs together. In addition, if we are unable to extend the patent term of the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax beyond March 23, 2010 or to maintain our market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through enforcement of our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax, Angiomax could be subject to generic competition as early as September 23, 2010. Competition from generic equivalents that would be sold at a price that is less than the price at which we currently sell Angiomax could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Cleviprex competes with all categories of intravenous antihypertensive, or IV-AHT, drugs, which may limit the use of Cleviprex and adversely affect our revenue Because different IV-AHT drugs act in different ways on the factors contributing to elevated blood pressure, physicians have many therapeutic options to reduce acutely elevated blood pressure. We have positioned Cleviprex as an improved alternative drug for selected patient types with acute, severe hypertension. Since all other IV-AHT drugs are available as inexpensive generics, Cleviprex must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety to compete with these drugs. We may also need to demonstrate that Cleviprex will save the hospital resources in other areas such as length of stay and other resource utilization to become commercially successful. Because generic therapies are inexpensive and have been widely used for many years, physicians and decision-makers for hospital resource allocation may be hesitant to adopt Cleviprex and fail to recognize the value delivered through a newer agent that offers precise blood pressure control. Hospitals establish formularies, which are lists of drugs approved for use in the hospital. If a drug is not included on the formulary, the ability of our sales representatives to promote the drug may be limited or denied. Hospital formularies may also limit the number of IV-AHT drugs in each drug class. If we fail to secure and maintain formulary inclusion for Cleviprex on favorable terms or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficultly achieving market acceptance of Cleviprex and our business could be materially adversely affected. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing competing products before or more successfully than we do Our industry is highly competitive. Our success will depend on our ability to acquire or license, and then develop, products and apply technology, as well as our ability to establish and maintain markets for our products. Competitors in the United States and other countries include major pharmaceutical companies, specialized pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology firms, universities and other research institutions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research and development capabilities and experience, and greater manufacturing, marketing and financial resources, than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may develop or license products or other novel technologies that are more effective, safer, more convenient or less costly than existing products or technologies or products or technologies that are being developed by us or may obtain regulatory approvals for products more rapidly than we are able. Technological developments by others may render our products or products in development noncompetitive. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining technological competitiveness. If physicians, patients and other key decision-makers do not accept clinical data from trials of Angiomax and Cleviprex, then sales of Angiomax and Cleviprex may be adversely affected We believe that the near-term commercial success of Angiomax and Cleviprex will depend in part upon the extent to which physicians, patients and other key decision-makers accept the results of clinical trials of Angiomax and Cleviprex. For example, since the original results of REPLACE-2 were announced in 2002, additional hospitals have granted Angiomax formulary approval and hospital demand for the product has increased. These trends, however, may not continue. Some commentators have challenged various aspects of the trial design of REPLACE-2, the conduct of the study and the analysis and interpretation of the results from the study. Similarly, physicians, patients and other key decision-makers may not accept the results of the ACUITY and HORIZONS AMI trials. The FDA, in denying our sNDA for an additional dosing regimen in the treatment of ACS initiated in the emergency department, indicated that the basis of its decision involved the appropriate use and interpretation of non-inferiority trials such as our ACUITY trial. If physicians, patients and other key decision-makers do not accept clinical trial results, adoption and continued use of Angiomax and Cleviprex may suffer, and our business will be materially adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents If the number of PCI procedures performed decreases, sales of Angiomax may be negatively impacted We believe that as a result of data from a clinical trial that was published in March 2007 in the New England Journal of Medicine entitled “Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and Aggressive Drug Evaluation,” or “COURAGE”, and the controversy regarding the use of drug-eluting stents, the number of PCI procedures performed in the United States declined in 2007. PCI procedure volume increased in 2008 from 2007 levels, but did not return to the level of PCI procedures performed prior to the 2007 decline and declined again in 2009 from 2008 levels. We believe that the 2009 decline was due, in part, to economic pressures on our hospital customers in 2009. The decline in the number of PCI procedures has had a direct impact on our net revenues. PCI procedure volume might further decline and might not return to its previous levels. Because PCI procedures are the primary procedures during which Angiomax is used, a further decline in the number of procedures may negatively impact sales of Angiomax. If we are unable to successfully expand our business infrastructure and develop our global operations, our ability to generate future product revenue will be adversely affected To support the global sales and marketing of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our product candidates in development if and when they are approved for sale and marketed outside the United States, we are developing our business infrastructure globally, with European operations being our initial focus. If we are unable to expand our global operations successfully and in a timely manner, the growth of our business may be limited and our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. Such expansion may be more difficult, more expensive or take longer than we anticipate, and we may not be able to successfully market and sell our products globally. Future rapid expansion could strain our operational, human and financial resources. In order to manage expansion, we must: • continue to improve operating, administrative, and information systems; • accurately predict future personnel and resource needs to meet contract commitments; • track the progress of ongoing projects; and • attract and retain qualified management, sales, professional, scientific and technical operating personnel. If we do not take these actions and are not able to manage our global business, then our global operations may be less successful than anticipated, and we may be required to allocate additional resources to the expanded business, which we would have otherwise allocated to another part of our business. The success of our global operations may be adversely affected by international risks and uncertainties. If these operations are not successful, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. Our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to grow and ultimately maintain our product sales in foreign markets, particularly in Europe. In addition, with our acquisitions of Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, we are conducting research and development activities in Germany and Canada. These foreign operations subject us to additional risks and uncertainties, particularly because we have limited experience in marketing, servicing and distributing our products or otherwise operating our business outside of the United States. These risks and uncertainties include: • our customers’ ability to obtain reimbursement for procedures using our products in foreign markets; • the burden of complying with complex and changing foreign legal, tax, accounting and regulatory requirements; • language barriers and other difficulties in providing customer support and service; • longer accounts receivable collection times; • significant currency fluctuations; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; and • the interpretation of contractual provisions governed by foreign laws in the event of a contract dispute. 30 Table of Contents Our foreign operations could also be adversely affected by export license requirements, the imposition of governmental controls, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, changes in tariffs and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, any violation of which could create a substantial liability for us and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. Our ability to generate future product revenue will be affected by reimbursement and drug pricing Acceptable levels of coverage and reimbursement of drug treatments by government payers such as Medicare and Medicaid programs, private health insurers and other organizations will have a significant effect on our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. Reimbursement in the United States, Europe or elsewhere may not be available for any products we may develop or, if already available, may be decreased in the future. We may not get reimbursement or reimbursement may be limited if government payers, private health insurers and other organizations are influenced by the prices of existing drugs in determining whether our products will be reimbursed and at what levels. For example, the availability of numerous generic antibiotics at lower prices than branded antibiotics, such as oritavancin, if it were approved for commercial sale, could substantially affect the likelihood of reimbursement and the level of reimbursement for oritavancin. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to commercialize our products, or may not be able to obtain a satisfactory financial return on our products. In certain countries, particularly the countries of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals and the level of reimbursement are subject to governmental control. In some countries, it can take an extended period of time to establish and obtain reimbursement, and reimbursement approval may be required at the individual patient level, which can lead to further delays. In addition, in some countries, it may take an extended period of time to collect payment even after reimbursement has been established. Third-party payers increasingly are challenging prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the changes in health insurance programs may result in lower prices for pharmaceutical products. There have been, and we expect there will continue to be, legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could significantly impact our business. Cost-cutting measures that the U.S. government, state legislatures, and the private sector are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially adversely affect our ability to sell Angiomax, Cleviprex and any products that are successfully developed by us and approved by regulators. These cost-cutting measures include: • controls on government-funded reimbursement for drugs; • new or increased obligations to pay prescription drug rebates to government health care programs; • limitations on or challenges to the pricing of drug; and • controls on healthcare providers. Moreover, we are unable to predict what additional legislation or regulation, if any, relating to the health care industry or third-party coverage and reimbursement may be enacted in the future or what effect such legislation or regulation would have on our business. If we do not comply with federal, state and foreign laws and regulations relating to the health care business, we could face substantial penalties We and our customers are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, and the governments of the states and foreign countries in which we may conduct our business. In the United States, the laws that directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business include the following: • the Federal Anti-Kickback Law, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual or furnishing or arranging for a good or service for which payment may be made under federal health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid; • other Medicare laws and regulations that prescribe the requirements for coverage and payment for services performed by our customers, including the amount of such payment; • the Federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; • the Federal False Statements Act, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services; and • various state laws that impose similar requirements and liability with respect to state healthcare reimbursement and other programs. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations described above or any other law or governmental regulation to which we or our customers are or will be subject, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if our customers 31 Table of Contents are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any penalties, damages, fines, curtailment or restructuring of our operations would adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable costs and adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims, we could be exposed to significant liability Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks which are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products. Product liability claims might be made by patients in clinical trials, consumers, health care providers or pharmaceutical companies or others that sell our products. These claims may be made even with respect to those products that are manufactured in licensed and regulated facilities or otherwise possess regulatory approval for commercial sale. These claims could expose us to significant liabilities that could prevent or interfere with the development or commercialization of our products. Product liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or pay significant damages. With respect to our commercial sales and our clinical trials, we are covered by product liability insurance in the amount of $20.0 million per occurrence and $20.0 million annually in the aggregate on a claims-made basis. This coverage may not be adequate to cover any product liability claims. As we continue to commercialize our products, we may wish to increase our product liability insurance. Product liability coverage is expensive. In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain such product liability insurance on reasonable terms, at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to product liability claims. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters If we do not obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we will not be able to market our product candidates and our ability to generate additional revenue could be materially impaired We must obtain approval from the FDA in order to sell our product candidates in the United States and from foreign regulatory authorities in order to sell our product candidates in other countries. Except for Angiomax in the United States, Europe and other countries and Cleviprex in the United States and New Zealand, we do not have any other product approved for sale in the United States or any foreign market. Obtaining regulatory approval is uncertain, time-consuming and expensive. Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product commercially non-viable. Securing regulatory approval requires the submission of extensive pre-clinical and clinical data, information about product manufacturing processes and inspection of facilities and supporting information to the regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product’s safety and efficacy. If we are unable to submit the necessary data and information, for example, because the results of clinical trials are not favorable, or if the applicable regulatory authority delays reviewing or does not approve our applications, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval. Delays in obtaining or failure to obtain regulatory approvals may: • delay or prevent the successful commercialization of any of our product candidates; • diminish our competitive advantage; and • defer or decrease our receipt of revenue. The regulatory review and approval process to obtain marketing approval for a new drug or indication takes many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. This process can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty and indication of the product candidate involved. The regulatory authorities globally have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that data is insufficient for approval and require additional pre-clinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a product candidate. For example, the FDA issued a complete response letter to Targanta in December 2008 before it was acquired by us with respect to the oritavancin NDA indicating that the FDA could not approve the NDA in its present form and that it would be necessary for Targanta to perform an additional adequate and well-controlled study to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of oritavancin in patients with ABSSSI before the application could be approved. 32 Table of Contents We cannot expand the indications for which we are marketing Angiomax unless we receive regulatory approval for each additional indication. Failure to expand these indications will limit the size of the commercial market for Angiomax The FDA has approved Angiomax for use as an anticoagulant in combination with aspirin in patients with unstable angina undergoing PCI and patients undergoing PCI with or at risk of HIT/HITTS. Angiox is approved for patients undergoing PCI, for adult patients with ACS and for the treatment of STEMI patients undergoing primary PCI in the European Union. One of our key objectives is to expand the indications for which Angiomax is approved. In order to market Angiomax for expanded indications, we will need to conduct appropriate clinical trials, obtain positive results from those trials and obtain regulatory approval for such proposed indications. Obtaining regulatory approval is uncertain, time-consuming and expensive. The regulatory review and approval process to obtain marketing approval for a new indication can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. This process can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, novelty and indication of the product candidate involved. The regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that any data submitted is insufficient for approval and require additional pre-clinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of a new indication product candidate. For example, in 2006 we received a non-approvable letter from the FDA in connection with our application to market Angiomax in patients with or at risk of HIT/HITTS undergoing cardiac surgery. While we have indicated to the FDA that we are evaluating potential next steps, the FDA may require additional studies which may require the expenditure of substantial resources. Even if any such studies are undertaken, we might not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for this indication in a timely manner or at all. In addition, in May 2008, we received a non-approvable letter from the FDA with respect to an sNDA that we submitted to the FDA seeking approval of an additional indication for Angiomax for the treatment of patients with ACS in the emergency department. In its letter, the FDA indicated that the basis of their decision involved the appropriate use and interpretation of non-inferiority trials, including the ACUITY trial. We disagree with the FDA on these issues and continue to evaluate how to respond to the FDA’s views on the ACUITY trial. We might not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for these indications or any other indications in a timely manner or at all. If we are unsuccessful in expanding the Angiomax product label, the size of the commercial market for Angiomax will be limited. Clinical trials of product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and the results of these trials are uncertain Before we can obtain regulatory approvals to market any product for a particular indication, we will be required to complete pre-clinical studies and extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of such product for such indication. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is uncertain as to outcome. Success in pre-clinical testing or early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. An unexpected result in one or more of our clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. For example, in May 2009 we discontinued enrollment in our Phase 3 CHAMPION clinical trial program of cangrelor in patients undergoing PCI after receiving a letter from the clinical program’s independent Interim Analysis Review Committee that stated that the CHAMPION-PLATFORM trial would not meet the goal of demonstrating persuasive evidence of clinical effectiveness that could form the basis for regulatory approval. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our products, including: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials which even if undertaken cannot ensure we will gain approval; • data obtained from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials may be subject to varying interpretations, which could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities deciding not to approve a product in a timely fashion, or at all; • the cost of clinical trials may be greater than we currently anticipate; • regulators or institutional review boards may not authorize us to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site; • we, or the FDA or other regulatory authorities, might suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. For example, we have in the past voluntarily suspended enrollment in one of our clinical trials to review an interim analysis of safety data from the trial; and 33 Table of Contents • the effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or the product candidates may have other unexpected characteristics. The rate of completion of clinical trials depends in part upon the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the existence of competing clinical trials and the availability of alternative or new treatments. In particular, the patient population targeted by some of our clinical trials may be small. Delays in patient enrollment in any of our current or future clinical trials may result in increased costs and program delays. If we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements to which we, our contract manufacturers and our products are subject, our products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we could be subject to penalties The testing, manufacturing, labeling, safety, advertising, promotion, storage, sales, distribution, export and marketing, among other things, of our products, both before and after approval, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere throughout the world. Both before and after approval of a product, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform to current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP. Regulatory authorities, including the FDA, periodically inspect manufacturing facilities to assess compliance with cGMP. Our failure or the failure of our contract manufacturers to comply with the laws administered by the FDA, the European Medicines Agency or other governmental authorities could result in, among other things, any of the following: • delay in approving or refusal to approve a product; • product recall or seizure; • suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • untitled or warning letters; • injunctions; • fines and other monetary penalties; • the imposition of civil or criminal penalties; and • unanticipated expenditures. Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties for Manufacturing, Research and Development, and Distribution Activities We depend on single source suppliers for the production of bulk drug substance for Angiomax, Cleviprex and our other products in development and a limited number of suppliers to carry out all fill-finish activities We do not manufacture any of our products and do not plan to develop any capacity to manufacture them. We currently obtain all bulk drug substance for each of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development from single source suppliers, and rely on a limited number of manufacturers to carry out all fill-finish activities for each of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. We do not currently have alternative sources for production of bulk drug substance or to carry out fill-finish activities. In the event that any of our third-party manufacturers is unable or unwilling to carry out its respective manufacturing or supply obligations or terminates or refuses to renew its arrangements with us, we may be unable to obtain alternative manufacturing or supply, or obtain such manufacturing or supply on commercially reasonable terms or on a timely basis. In addition, we purchase finished drug product 34 Table of Contents from a number of our third-party manufacturers under purchase orders. In such cases, the third-party manufactures have made no commitment to supply the drug product to us on a long-term basis and could reject a new purchase order. Only a limited number of manufacturers are capable of manufacturing Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. Moreover, consolidation within the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry could further reduce the number of manufacturers capable of producing our products, or otherwise affect our existing contractual relationships. If we were required to transfer manufacturing processes to other third-party manufacturers and we were able to identify an alternative manufacturer, we would still need to satisfy various regulatory requirements, which could cause us to experience significant delays in receiving an adequate supply of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. Moreover, we may not be able to transfer processes that are proprietary to the manufacturer. Any delays in the manufacturing process may adversely impact our ability to meet commercial demands for Angiomax or Cleviprex on a timely basis, which could reduce our revenue, and supply product for clinical trials of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development, which could affect our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis or at all. If third parties on whom we rely to manufacture and support the development and commercialization of our products do not fulfill their obligations, the development and commercialization of our products may be terminated or delayed, and the costs of development and commercialization may increase. Our development and commercialization strategy involves entering into arrangements with corporate and academic collaborators, contract research organizations, distributors, third-party manufacturers, licensors, licensees and others to conduct development work, manage or conduct our clinical trials, manufacture our products and market and sell our products outside of the United States. We do not have the expertise or the resources to conduct many of these activities on our own and, as a result, are particularly dependent on third parties in many areas. We may not be able to maintain our existing arrangements with respect to the commercialization or manufacture of Angiomax and Cleviprex or establish and maintain arrangements to develop, manufacture and commercialize our products in development or any additional product candidates or products we may acquire on terms that are acceptable to us. Any current or future arrangements for development and commercialization may not be successful. If we are not able to establish or maintain agreements relating to Angiomax, Cleviprex, our products in development or any additional products we may acquire, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Third parties may not perform their obligations as expected. The amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to developing, manufacturing and commercializing our products are not within our control. Our collaborators may develop, manufacture or commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the collaboration with us. Furthermore, our interests may differ from those of third parties that manufacture or commercialize our products. Our collaborators may reevaluate their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations, and change the focus of their development, manufacturing or commercialization efforts. Disagreements that may arise with these third parties could delay or lead to the termination of the development or commercialization of our product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time consuming and expensive. If any third party that manufactures or supports the development or commercialization of our products breaches or terminates its agreement with us, or fails to commit sufficient resources to our collaboration or conduct its activities in a timely manner, or fails to comply with regulatory requirements, such breach, termination or failure could: • delay or otherwise adversely impact the manufacturing, development or commercialization of Angiomax, Cleviprex, our products in development or any additional products that we may acquire or develop; • require us to seek a new collaborator or undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unforeseen additional resources to the manufacturing, development or commercialization of our products; or • result in the termination of the development or commercialization of our products. Use of third-party manufacturers may increase the risk that we will not have appropriate supplies of our products or our product candidates Reliance on third-party manufacturers entails risks to which we would not be subject if we manufactured product candidates or products ourselves, including: • reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance; 35 Table of Contents • the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party; and • the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party, based on its own business priorities, at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Angiomax and Cleviprex and our products in development may compete with products and product candidates of third parties for access to manufacturing facilities. If we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development, it will be more difficult for us to compete effectively, market and sell our approved products and develop our products in development. Our contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing, periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies or their designees to evaluate compliance with the FDA’s cGMP, regulations and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We cannot be certain that our present or future manufacturers will be able to comply with cGMP regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. We do not control compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Failure of our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines and other monetary penalties, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, interruption of production, warning letters, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of Angiomax, Cleviprex and our products in development. On December 16, 2009, we conducted a voluntary recall of 11 lots of Cleviprex due to the presence of visible particulate matter that was deposited at the bottom of some vials and was observed in such vials during a routine annual inspection. We are scheduled to extend our voluntary recall in March 2010 to include four additional manufactured lots of Cleviprex that now also show visible particulate matter that was deposited at the bottom of some vials. As a result, we are not able to supply the market at this time with existing inventory or using the current manufacturing method. We are cooperating with the FDA and our contract manufacturer on these recalls and to remedy the problem at the manufacturing site. If the manufacturing problem is remedied, we anticipate being able to supply the market in the second quarter of 2010. If the problem is not remedied, we may pursue production of drug product using other approaches, which could delay the supply of Cleviprex up to 18 months. Any delay in resupplying the market with Cleviprex would reduce our revenues. In order to satisfy some regulatory authorities, we may need to reformulate the way in which our oritavancin bulk drug substance is created to remove animal source product, which may delay marketing approval of our products and increase our costs Oritavancin bulk drug substance is manufactured using animal-sourced products, namely porcine-sourced products. Some non-U.S. regulatory authorities have historically objected to the use of animal-sourced products, particularly bovine-sourced products, during the preparation of finished drug product. As a result and in order to better position oritavancin for approval in foreign jurisdictions, under our agreement with Abbott, we and Abbott are seeking to develop a manufacturing process for oritavancin bulk drug substance that does not rely on the use of any animal-sourced products. If we are unable to develop a manufacturing process for oritavancin bulk drug substance that does not rely on the use of animal-sourced product, we may be unable to receive regulatory approval for oritavancin in some foreign jurisdictions, which would likely have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our business objectives as to oritavancin. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages As a result of our acquisitions of Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, we now conduct research and development activities that involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials and viruses. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations in each of the United States, Canada and Germany govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We have only limited insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may restrict our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to extend the patent term of the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax or to maintain market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through the enforcement of our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax, then Angiomax could be subject to generic competition as early as September 2010. Generic competition for Angiomax would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations The principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax expires on March 23, 2010. We will then have a six-month period of market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States which will expire on September 23, 2010 due to our study of Angiomax in the pediatric setting. We applied, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, for an extension of the term of the principal U.S. patent for Angiomax. The PTO rejected our application because in its view the application was not timely filed. Since 2002, we have filed requests with the PTO for reconsideration of the denial of the application, but in April 2007 and again in January 2010, the PTO denied our application for patent term extension. In January 2010, we brought suit against the PTO, the FDA and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services seeking to set aside the denial of our application to extend of the term of the principal patent that covers Angiomax. We cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. On June 23, 2008, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill that, if enacted, would have provided the PTO with discretion to consider patent extension applications filed late unintentionally under the Hatch-Waxman Act. The United States Senate adjourned without considering this bill. Congress may consider legislation similar to that passed by the House in June 2008. However, a bill may not be introduced or enacted or, if it is enacted, the PTO may still not consider our application. We will continue to explore alternatives to extend the term of the patent but we may not be successful in doing so. In September and October 2009, we were granted two U.S. patents covering Angiomax. We listed both patents in the Orange Book for Angiomax. In October 2009 and January 2010, in response to Paragraph IV Certification Notice letters we received with respect to ANDAs filed with the FDA seeking approval to market generic versions of Angiomax, we filed lawsuits against the ANDA filers alleging patent infringement of the two patents in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. If we are unable to extend the patent term of the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax beyond March 23, 2010 or to maintain our market exclusivity for Angiomax in the United States through enforcement of our other U.S. patents covering Angiomax, Angiomax could be subject to generic competition in the United States as early as September 2010. Competition from generic equivalents that would be sold at a price that is less than the price at which we currently sell Angiomax could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we breach any of the agreements under which we license rights to products or technology from others, we could lose license rights that are material to our business or be subject to claims by our licensors We license rights to products and technology that are important to our business, and we expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For instance, we have exclusively licensed patents and patent applications relating to Angiomax, Cleviprex and each of our products in development other than CU2010. Under these agreements, we are subject to a range of commercialization and development, sublicensing, royalty, patent prosecution and maintenance, insurance and other obligations. Any failure by us to comply with any of these obligations or any other breach by us of our license agreements could give the licensor the right to terminate the license in whole, terminate the exclusive nature of the license or bring a claim against us for damages. Any such termination or claim, particularly relating to our agreements with respect to Angiomax, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or business. Even if we contest any such termination or claim and are ultimately successful, our stock price could suffer. In addition, on termination we may be required to license to the licensor any related intellectual property that we developed. We have entered into an agreement with Biogen Idec, one of our licensors for Angiomax, that suspends the statute of limitations relating to any claims, including claims for damages and/or license termination, that Biogen Idec may bring relating to the PTO’s rejection of the application under the Hatch-Waxman Act for an extension of the term of the principal U.S. patent that covers Angiomax on the grounds that, in its view, it was not timely filed. We have also entered into agreements with the law firms involved in the patent extension filing that suspend the statute of limitations on our claims against them for the filing. In the third quarter of 2009, we initiated discussions with the two law firms involved in the patent extension filing of the application under the Hatch-Waxman Act and are currently in related discussions with Biogen Idec and HRI with respect to the possible resolution of the potential claims among the parties. We may not reach an agreement with the parties on acceptable terms to us or at all. 37 Table of Contents In addition, under our license agreement with AstraZeneca, we were required to file an NDA for cangrelor by December 31, 2009. Because we did not satisfy this requirement, AstraZeneca has the right to terminate our rights under the license to develop, market and sell cangrelor in the United States, subject to conducting discussions with us regarding reasonable solutions to the delay in the filing. We are currently discussing with AstraZeneca this matter and our proposed Phase 3 clinical trials for cangrelor. We may not reach an agreement with AstraZeneca on acceptable terms to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for the intellectual property relating to our products, the value of our products will be adversely affected The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual issues. Our success depends significantly on our ability to: • obtain and maintain U.S. and foreign patents, including defending those patents against adverse claims; • secure patent term extension for the patents covering our approved products; • protect trade secrets; • operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others; and • prevent others from infringing our proprietary rights. We may not have any additional patents issued from any patent applications that we own or license. If additional patents are granted, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, issued patents that we own or license may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products, and we may not be able to obtain patent term extension to prolong the terms of the principal patents covering our approved products. Changes in patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Our patents also may not afford us protection against competitors with similar technology. Because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that others have not filed or maintained patent applications for technology used by us or covered by our pending patent applications without our being aware of these applications. We exclusively licensed patents and patent applications for Angiomax, Cleviprex and each of our other products in development other than CU2010. The U.S. patents licensed by us are currently set to expire at various dates. We plan to file applications for U.S. patent term extension for our products in development upon their approval by the FDA. We are a party to a number of lawsuits that we brought against pharmaceutical companies that have notified us that they have filed ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Angiomax. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. During the period in which these matters are pending, the uncertainty of their outcome may cause our stock price to decline. In addition, an adverse result in these matters whether appealable or not, will likely cause our stock price to decline. Any final, unappealable, adverse result in these matters will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions and cause our stock price to decline. In addition, involvement in litigation can be expensive. We may be unable to utilize the Chemilog process if Lonza Braine breaches our agreement Our agreement with Lonza Braine for the supply of Angiomax bulk drug substance requires that Lonza Braine transfer the technology that was used to develop the Chemilog process to a secondary supplier of Angiomax bulk drug substance or to us or an alternate supplier at the expiration of the agreement, which is currently scheduled to occur in September 2013, but is subject to automatic renewals of consecutive three-year periods unless either party provides notice of non-renewal at least one year prior to the expiration of the initial term or any renewal term. If Lonza Braine fails or is unable to transfer successfully this technology, we would be unable to employ the Chemilog process to manufacture our Angiomax bulk drug substance, which could cause us to experience delays in the manufacturing process and increase our manufacturing costs in the future. 38 Table of Contents If we are not able to keep our trade secrets confidential, our technology and information may be used by others to compete against us We rely significantly upon unpatented proprietary technology, information, processes and know-how. We seek to protect this information by confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other third-party contractors, as well as through other security measures. We may not have adequate remedies for any breach by a party to these confidentiality agreements. In addition, our competitors may learn or independently develop our trade secrets. If our confidential information or trade secrets become publicly known, they may lose their value to us. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any product candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our collaborators that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our collaborators may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our collaborators were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our collaborators are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the PTO and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Risks Related to Growth and Employees If we fail to acquire and develop additional product candidates or approved products it will impair our ability to grow We sell and generate revenue from two products, Angiomax and Cleviprex. In order to generate additional revenue, our business plan is to acquire or license, and then develop and market, additional product candidates or approved products. In 2008 and 2009, for instance, we acquired Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, licensed marketing rights to the ready-to-use formulation of Argatroban and licensed development and commercialization rights to ApoA-I Milano. The success of this growth strategy depends upon our ability to identify, select and acquire or license pharmaceutical products that meet the criteria we have established. Because we have only the limited internal scientific research capabilities that we acquired in our acquisitions of Curacyte Discovery and Targanta, and we do not anticipate establishing additional scientific research capabilities, we are dependent upon pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other researchers to sell or license product candidates to us. We need to integrate any acquired products into our existing operations. Integrating any newly acquired business or product could be expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to integrate any acquired business or product successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. In addition, managing the development of a new product entails numerous financial and operational risks, including difficulties in attracting qualified employees to develop the product. Any product candidate we acquire or license will require additional research and development efforts prior to commercial sale, including extensive pre-clinical and/or clinical testing and approval by the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory authorities. All product candidates are prone to the risks of failure inherent in pharmaceutical product development, including the possibility that the product candidate will not be safe and effective or approved by regulatory authorities. In addition, any approved products that we develop or acquire may not be: 39 Table of Contents • manufactured or produced economically; • successfully commercialized; or • widely accepted in the marketplace. We have previously acquired or licensed rights to products and, after having conducted development activities, determined not to devote further resources to those products. Any additional products that we acquire or license may not be successfully developed. In addition, proposing, negotiating and implementing an economically viable acquisition or license is a lengthy and complex process. Other companies, including those with substantially greater financial, marketing and sales resources, may compete with us for the acquisition or license of product candidates and approved products. We may not be able to acquire or license the rights to additional product candidates and approved products on terms that we find acceptable, or at all. We may not be able to manage our business effectively if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and consultants Our industry has experienced a high rate of turnover of management personnel in recent years. We are highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for the acquisition, development and commercialization activities we conduct or sponsor. If we lose one or more of the members of our senior management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Clive A. Meanwell, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Glenn P. Sblendorio, or other key employees or consultants, our ability to implement successfully our business strategy could be seriously harmed. Our ability to replace these key employees may be difficult and may take an extended period of time because of the limited number of individuals in our industry with the breadth of skills and experience required to acquire, develop and commercialize products successfully. Competition to hire from this limited pool is intense, and we may be unable to hire, train, retain or motivate such additional personnel. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Fluctuations in our operating results could affect the price of our common stock Our operating results may vary from period to period based on factors including the amount and timing of sales of Angiomax and Cleviprex, underlying hospital demand for Angiomax and Cleviprex, our customers’ buying patterns, the timing, expenses and results of clinical trials, announcements regarding clinical trial results and product introductions by us or our competitors, the availability and timing of third-party reimbursement, including in Europe, sales and marketing expenses and the timing of regulatory approvals. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors as a result of these or other factors, the trading price of our common stock will likely decrease. Our stock price has been and may in the future be volatile. This volatility may make it difficult for you to sell common stock when you want or at attractive prices Our common stock has been and in the future may be subject to substantial price volatility. From January 1, 2008 to March 9, 2010, the last reported sale price of our common stock ranged from a high of $27.68 per share to a low of $6.47 per share. The value of your investment could decline due to the effect of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • changes in valuations of similar companies; • variations in our operating results; • acquisitions and strategic partnerships; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; • disclosure of results of clinical testing or regulatory proceedings by us or our competitors; • the timing, amount and receipt of revenue from sales of our products and margins on sales of our products; 40 Table of Contents • governmental regulation and approvals; • developments in patent rights or other proprietary rights, particularly with respect to the principal U.S. Angiomax patent; • the terms of any settlement with Biogen Idec or the two law firms with respect to the principal U.S. patent covering Angiomax and the PTO’s denial of our application to extend the term of the patent; • developments or issues with our contract manufacturers; • changes in our management; and • general market conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of specialty pharmaceutical companies have been highly volatile. Moreover, broad market and industry fluctuations that are not within our control may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. You must be willing to bear the risk of fluctuations in the price of our common stock and the risk that the value of your investment in our securities could decline. Our corporate governance structure, including provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law, may prevent a change in control or management that security holders may consider desirable Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that might enable our management to resist a takeover of our company or discourage a third party from attempting to take over our company. These provisions include the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings, a classified board of directors and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. These provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of us or a change in our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock or our other securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 