ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. First Federal’s Market Area Limits Its Growth Potential Except for its offices in Quincy, Illinois, First Federal’s offices are located in small towns in rural counties. The small population and slow growth of the rural counties served by First Federal provide limited growth opportunities, if any. As a result, First Federal’s ability to achieve loan and deposit growth in those areas depends, in large part, on First Federal increasing its market share or growth by acquisition. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because nearly all of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in west central Illinois and the neighboring counties in northeast Missouri, our success depends to a significant extent upon economic conditions in this market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest 26 Table of Contents rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in west central Illinois and northeast Missouri could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Our purchase of unseasoned, out-of-state loans may expose us to increased lending risks. In 2005, we purchased $22.7 million of newly originated one- to four-family real estate loans, $14.7 million of purchased participation loans and $200,000 of commercial loans, net of repayment of principal. One- to four-family real estate purchased loans are secured by properties located in the states of Illinois, Missouri, Iowa, Indiana, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Kansas, Colorado and Arizona. The purchased participation loans are secured by properties throughout the country. The aggregate outstanding principal amount of these loans of $34.7 million at December 31, 2005, represented 19.4% of our total loans. It is difficult to assess the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio due to the recent origination of these loans and because the properties securing these loans are located outside of our market area. We can give no assurance that these loans will not have delinquency or charge-off levels above our historical experience, which would adversely affect our future performance. However, all loans are current as of December 31, 2005. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. Interest rates have recently been at historically low levels. However, between June 30, 2004 and December 31, 2005, the U.S. Federal Reserve has increased its target for the federal funds rate thirteen times, from 1.00% to 4.25%. While these short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) have increased, longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) have not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve has had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin to date. If short-term interest rates continue to rise, and if rates on our deposits and borrowings continue to reprice upward faster than the rates on our long-term loans and investments, we would experience further compression of our interest rate spread and net interest margin, which would have a negative effect on our profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. 27 Table of Contents Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Many of our competitors are larger financial institutions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 