ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS 19 ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 33 ITEM 2 DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY 33 ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 34 ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 35 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 36 ITEM 6 SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA 38 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 39 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 56 ITEM 8 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 56 ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 56 ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 56 ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION 57 PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 57 ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 59 ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 60 ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 60 ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 60 PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 60 Signatures 63 Financial Statements F-1 Ex-10.18 First Amendment dated February 14, 2006 to Lease Agreement EX-23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accouting Firm Ex-31.1 Section 302 Certification of C.E.O. Ex-31.2 Section 302 Certification of C.F.O. Ex-32.1 Section 906 Certification of C.E.O. Ex-32.2 Section 906 Certification of C.F.O. 3 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Overview ViaCell is a biotechnology company dedicated to researching, developing and commercializing cellular therapies. We have a pipeline of proprietary umbilical cord blood-derived and adult-derived stem cell product candidates being studied as possible treatments for cancer, cardiac disease and diabetes. We are currently conducting a Phase I clinical trial of CB001, our lead umbilical cord blood-derived stem cell therapy product candidate as a possible treatment for hematopoietic stem cell reconstitution in patients affected by a variety of cancers. In addition to our therapeutic research and development programs, we have a reproductive health business unit that generated revenues of $43.8 million in 2005 from sales of ViaCord, a product offering through which expectant families can preserve their baby’s umbilical cord blood for possible future medical use. We are working to leverage our commercial infrastructure and product development capabilities by developing ViaCytesm, our investigational product candidate intended to broaden reproductive choices for women through the cryopreservation of human unfertilized eggs. ViaCell was incorporated in the State of Delaware on September 2, 1994. Our corporate headquarters and main research facility is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We have processing and storage facilities in Hebron, Kentucky and an additional research and development operation in Singapore. Our Cellular Therapy Technology and Product Candidates ViaCell is dedicated to enabling the widespread application of human cells as medicine. We have focused our research and development efforts on investigating the potential therapeutic uses of umbilical cord blood-derived and adult-derived stem cells and on technology for the expansion of the populations of these cells. We are developing a pipeline of proprietary adult and umbilical cord blood-derived stem cell product candidates being studied as possible treatments for cancer, cardiac disease and diabetes. Below is an overview of the cell therapy area and a description of our cell therapy-related technology and product candidates. Stem Cell Therapy The human body is comprised not only of cells that have differentiated into specific tissues (such as skin, liver or blood) but also cells, known as stem cells that are not fully differentiated. As stem cells grow and proliferate, they are capable of producing both additional stem cells as well as cells that have differentiated to perform a specific function. To date, researchers have identified many different types of stem cells from many sources. These include, for example, stem cells found in umbilical cord blood and placenta, hematopoietic stem cells from bone marrow, pancreatic islet stem cells from the pancreas, neural stem cells from the brain, and embryonic stem cells from embryos. Each type of stem cell appears to have unique properties. For instance, some stem cells propagate well but are difficult to differentiate efficiently, some stem cells differentiate efficiently but are difficult to propagate, some stem cells appear to be unipotent in that they can only make one class of tissue, while others appear to be pluripotent in that they can make a variety of tissue types. Stem cells are found in different concentrations and in different locations in the body during a person’s lifetime. Current scientific findings suggest that each organ and tissue in the body is formed, maintained and possibly rejuvenated to different degrees, on a more or less continual basis under normal conditions, by specific and relatively rare stem cell populations naturally present in the body. Stem cell therapy represents an increasingly important modality in the medical and scientific community’s efforts to find treatments and cures for human disease. Stem cell therapy involves the use of stem cells to replace and initiate the production of other cells and tissues that are missing or damaged due to disease or injury. For example, today, hematopoietic stem cell therapy is commonly used as a treatment for a variety of cancers to re-establish and maintain the blood and immune system by regenerating healthy, functioning bone marrow. Hematopoietic stem cell therapy is a medical procedure in which bone marrow, umbilical cord blood or processed circulating blood, all of which contain hematopoietic stem cells, are infused into the patient’s circulatory system, where they find their way to the bone cavity. Once established in the bone, if the transplant 4 Table of Contents is successful, they begin to grow, or engraft, and produce cells of the blood and immune systems. Cells for this procedure are typically obtained from a donor, though, in some cases, the patient’s own cells may be used. Hematopoietic stem cell therapy can be used to: • replace diseased bone marrow with healthy, functioning bone marrow for patients with blood diseases such as aplastic anemia; • replace bone marrow damaged by high-dose chemotherapy or radiation therapy used to treat patients with a variety of cancers such as leukemia and lymphoma; and • provide genetically healthy and functioning bone marrow to treat patients with genetic diseases such as sickle cell anemia. According to the International Bone Marrow Transplant Registry, 45,000 hematopoietic stem cell transplants were performed worldwide in 2002. Many more patients needed transplants, but suitably compatible cells could not be found. Current scientific and clinical research indicates that stem cells may also have promise in the treatment of diseases in addition to those currently addressed with hematopoietic stem cell therapy. Researchers are investigating the therapeutic potential of stem cells in a number of areas including in the treatment of cardiac, neurological, neuromuscular, immunological, genetic, pancreatic, liver and degenerative diseases as well as various types of cancer. Despite the proven clinical utility of hematopoietic stem cell therapy and excitement over the potential of stem cell therapy and other cellular therapies to treat other types of diseases, significant challenges exist on the path toward widespread application, including: • Need for HLA Matching. Stem cell therapy is dependent on the recipient’s body accepting the newly transplanted stem cells, thus facilitating the production of the targeted cells. This acceptance is contingent on the transplanted cells “looking” similar, at a molecular level, to the patient’s own cells. Cellular similarity is measured by the presence of certain cell surface molecules known as human leukocyte antigens, or HLA. Host cells recognize the HLA pattern of the transplanted stem cells and will either accept the cells if the HLA match is close, or reject the cells if the HLA profile is not close enough. In hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, HLA mismatching can give rise to a very serious condition called graft-versus-host disease, or GVHD. GVHD is an attack by the transplanted immune cells on tissues of the host potentially resulting in severe disease, significant disability and often, in the most severe forms, death. Time consuming and expensive searches of a donor registry are often required to locate compatible donors for bone marrow or cord blood stem cell transplants. Due to these difficulties, and others, many patients seeking transplants of hematopoietic stem cells from non-related individuals do not receive stem cells. • Harvesting Cells. In general, harvesting sufficient quantities of stem cells from a donor or a patient is extremely difficult. For example, all current methods of obtaining hematopoietic stem cells for therapy have significant limitations. Stem cells can be collected from bone marrow through a painful, costly and invasive surgical procedure. There are not enough bone marrow donors registered and, when called upon, a large number of donors fail to follow through with the procedure. Stem cells can also be collected from blood of the circulatory system through a procedure in which drugs are injected into the donor to stimulate the movement of stem cells from the bone marrow into the blood stream, where they can be harvested and then separated from the whole blood. This procedure is time-consuming and uncomfortable for the donor. Umbilical cord blood is also rich in stem cells, but the volume of blood collected is limited. A single cord blood unit is generally too small to be suitable to treat adult patients. Stem cells can also be derived from human embryonic tissue. However, the utility of embryonic stem cells is presently technically limited and is further hampered by ethical and regulatory issues that restrict their use. • Expansion. The number of stem cells collected from any particular tissue source is typically low compared to the quantity required for therapeutic benefit. For example, bone marrow, processed 5 Table of Contents circulating blood and umbilical cord blood are crude mixtures of largely differentiated cells with small numbers of stem cells, contributing to unpredictability in clinical responses. The likelihood and speed of successful stem cell engraftment are directly related to the number of stem cells transplanted. Consequently, the ideal approach to a successful transplant is to use a large number of stem cells. Researchers have been working for decades on methods for expanding populations of donated stem cells, but their efforts have been largely unsuccessful. Most attempts to increase the number of stem cells involve methods of growing or culturing stem cells in batches. Batch production of stem cells is generally not considered effective because differentiated cell populations outgrow stem cells and create by-products that hinder the growth and maintenance of stem cells. Few stem cells, if any, are produced using this process. The mixed populations of cells that result are also difficult to characterize, creating the possibility of clinical side effects as compared to a pure stem cell population. Furthermore, batch production of cells is expensive. Large amounts of materials and production capacity are required to accommodate large cultures that are needed given the low concentration of stem cells. Our Expansion Technologies Selective Amplification We have developed a proprietary technology called Selective Amplification that we use to isolate stem cells from mixtures of cells and selectively expand them in a controlled-manner. Our process uses growth factors to promote the growth of stem cell populations and a mixture of antibodies to purify them by removing unwanted differentiated cells that are produced naturally as a by-product of stem cell growth. Differentiated cells cause feedback inhibition when using conventional batch culture methodologies for growth resulting in loss of stem cells. Selective Amplification uses growth and purification techniques concurrently and iteratively to control and optimize growth of the stem cell population. Different stem cells can be grown and purified by using different combinations and concentrations of growth factors and antibodies and by selection at different time points, creating a range of potential cellular products. The Selective Amplification process is described below: Purification. We initially purify a population of cells containing targeted stem cells using a specially formulated mixture of antibodies. These antibodies bind to the surface of unwanted, differentiated cells but not to targeted stem cells. The antibodies, which have magnetic particles associated with them, link onto the surface of the differentiated cells. We then expose the cell preparation to a specially designed magnet, which removes the magnetic particles along with the antibodies and differentiated cells to which they are connected. This method of purification is referred to as negative immuno-magnetic selection because the target stem cells remain in the culture, unaffected by the antibodies or magnetic particles, while the unwanted differentiated cells are removed. Growth. Following the initial purification of the target stem cell population, we place the cells into a liquid culture containing appropriate growth media. We then allow the culture to grow. During this time, the stem cells divide, producing both additional undifferentiated stem cells as well as differentiated cells. Re-purification. After a specified growth period, we re-purify the target cells using negative immuno-magnetic selection. Re-purification both removes the differentiated cells and eliminates their deleterious impact on the target stem cell population. Repeated Cycles of Growth and Purification. We repeat the growth and purification cycles at specified time points to optimize and control the expansion of the stem cell population and largely eliminate differentiated cells. This technique minimizes culture size and consumption of antibodies, growth factors and media, making it more cost effective than conventional cell culture techniques. Harvest, Characterize and Package. After a final step of reselection and growth, the amplified target cells are harvested, characterized and packaged for use. 6 Table of Contents The following illustration shows the difference between conventional stem cell growth methodologies and Selective Amplification. The Selective Amplification process results in a highly characterized population of stem cells. Our lead product candidate manufactured using this technology is CB001. We are working on other approaches to expand populations of cells in addition to Selective Amplification, including the use of Unrestricted Somatic Stem Cells as a platform for cell expansion. We believe our Selective Amplification and other technologies may have broad range potential applications not just as a potential therapeutic application, but also in cellular therapy. Our Product Candidates in Cellular Therapies CB001 CB001 consists of a highly enriched concentrated and purified population of hematopoietic stem cells derived from umbilical cord blood produced using Selective Amplification. CB001 is currently being studied in a Phase I clinical trial for hematopoietic stem cell reconstitution in the treatment of a variety of cancers. 7 Table of Contents Background. Hematopoietic stem cell therapy is commonly used as a treatment for a variety of cancers and certain serious genetic and acquired diseases to re-establish and maintain the blood and immune system by providing or regenerating healthy, functioning bone marrow. In this type of therapy, hematopoietic stem cells are obtained typically from bone marrow, but also from umbilical cord blood or processed circulating blood, and are infused into the patient’s circulatory system, where they find their way to the bone cavity. Once established in the bone, if the transplant is successful, the stem cells begin to grow, or engraft, and produce cells of the blood and immune systems. The treatment is usually undertaken in patients who are very sick and for whom there are few, if any, alternatives. Even when such a need exists, hematopoietic stem cell therapy may not be an option often because of the lack of available bone marrow donors with HLA matching cells. Umbilical cord blood is another important source of hematopoietic cells. However, a single cord blood unit is generally too small to be suitable to treat an adult patient. CB001 is being developed as a potential source of highly purified stem cells for those for whom a suitable match from other sources is not available. We believe that an expanded umbilical cord blood-derived stem cell product like CB001 has the potential to overcome the current limitations of hematopoietic stem cell therapy by: • Increasing the Likelihood of Locating Compatible Stem Cells. Umbilical cord blood contains a rich supply of stem cells. With approximately 4 million births per year in the United States, cord blood represents a large, natural resource provided it can be efficiently and cost-effectively converted into standardized medicine. Most cord blood units collected, preserved and stored do not contain sufficient stem cells to treat an adult patient. We are studying whether, through Selective Amplification, we will be able to expand the number of stem cells contained in each unit so that every unit is potentially suitable to treat a patient, regardless of size. In addition to size limitations that exist with unexpanded cord blood units, HLA matching limitations exist particularly for racial minorities that are proportionally underrepresented in current donor inventories. If every cord blood unit that is collected, preserved and stored can be expanded, the likelihood of locating compatible stem cells in sufficient quantities is increased. • Increasing the Number of Stem Cells. We have increased hematopoietic stem cell populations by more than 100-fold, with an average of 35-fold expansion within a 14-day period. The potency of a cord blood unit has been correlated with the number of hematopoietic stem cells in the graft. The number of stem cells in an average cord blood unit are generally considered to be insufficient to engraft an adult by a factor of 2 to 10. The increase in stem cell populations that we may be able to achieve may have significance in the potential for therapeutic effect. Program Status. We are currently conducting a ten patient Phase 1 clinical study of CB001. We have enrolled and completed treatment in eight of the ten patients called for in the study. The patient population eligible for participation in this trial includes children and adult patients (ages 12-60) with acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and Non-Hodgkins lymphoma. The patients receive CB001 (produced by Selective Amplification of a donor umbilical cord) plus a standard cord blood transplant (derived from a different donor) following high dose chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Patients are followed for 100 days post transplant. We expect to enroll the final two patients and complete analysis of the study data in 2006. We resumed the study in December 2005 after the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, lifted a clinical hold. The FDA had placed a clinical hold on the study in September 2005 following our decision to suspend enrollment after two patients experienced acute Grade IV graft-versus-host disease, or aGVHD, a potential and common side effect in transplantation. Under the study protocol, two cases of Grade IV aGVHD called for suspension of enrollment. Both patients recovered from Grade IV GVHD, and were released from the hospital. The CB001 Phase 1 clinical study is designed primarily as a safety study. However, we may also be able to differentiate between cells coming from CB001 and cells coming from the standard cord blood transplant due to genetic differences in the two types of donor cells. As a result, we also expect to generate preliminary data on the clinical activity of CB001. 8 Table of Contents Unrestricted Somatic Stem Cells — Cardiac We are working to develop a proprietary type of stem cell called Unrestricted Somatic Stem Cells, or USSCs. USSCs are a pluripotent class of stem cells derived from umbilical cord blood. Scientific findings indicate that USSCs may have the ability to differentiate into many cell types, including fat, bone, cartilage and precursor neuronal cells under specified in vitro culture conditions. Data from animal models suggests that this cell type is also capable of differentiating in a variety of tissue types as shown by positive histo-chemical data from liver, bone, cartilage, brain and heart of transplanted animals. We are currently studying the potential for this technology in the treatment of cardiac disease. Background. Acute myocardial infarction, or heart attack, occurs when the blood supply to part of the heart muscle is severely reduced or stopped. This occurs when one of the heart’s arteries is blocked by an obstruction, such as a blood clot or a plaque formed by arteriosclerosis. If the blood supply is cut off for a prolonged period of time, heart muscle cells suffer irreversible injury and die. According to a statistical report from the American Heart Association (Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics — 2005 Update), there are approximately 1.2 million cases of myocardial infarction and fatal coronary heart disease each year in the United States, with a terminal outcome in about 42% of cases. Many patients who survive develop a chronic form of heart disease called congestive heart failure, or CHF, which is associated with a progressive deterioration of the heart muscle. According to the American Heart Association, about 5 million patients suffer from CHF in the United States. Although patient survival rates have been improved by using catheters or drugs to remove thrombotic occlusions (blood vessel blockages), there is no proven therapy for repairing damaged heart tissue or generating new tissue. Scientists have theorized that stem cells may be able to play a role in tissue repair and regeneration in the heart, and may help restore heart function after a heart attack. Using rodent models, scientists conducting research in the area have generated data that suggests that adult stem cells when injected into the damaged area of the heart can lead to improved function and increased survival. In other experimental applications, scientists conducting research in the area have used preparations of stem cells isolated from a patient’s own bone marrow, and have seen improvement in cardiac function. This area of investigation is still in the early stages. Scientists are working to confirm the effect of introducing stem cells to damaged areas in the heart and to determine which types of stem cells might work, how to expand the cells so that an adequate amount is delivered and how to effectively deliver the cells to the impacted area. We are studying the potential for USSCs in this area given their ability to differentiate into myogenic (endothelial and myocardiocyte) cells such as those found in cardiac muscle tissue. Status of Program. We continue to conduct preclinical studies of USSCs in the cardiac area. We are focused on using animal models to confirm that USSCs have the potential to improve heart function, and on finding a catheter-based mode of administration to deliver cells in a targeted manner to the infarct region that can be applied by interventional cardiologists. If we successfully complete preclinical development, we expect to file an investigational new drug application (“IND”) with the FDA in late 2006 or early 2007. Pancreatic Stem Cells — Diabetes We are conducting an early-stage research program in collaboration with Genzyme Corporation to explore the potential for pancreatic adult stem cells in the treatment of diabetes. Type 1 diabetes, also known as juvenile-onset diabetes, is caused by destruction of the insulin-producing islet cells of the pancreas. In the absence of insulin, a sugar called glucose cannot enter the cells and accumulates in abnormally high levels in the blood. Patients with Type 1 diabetes must monitor their blood sugar levels and take insulin several times a day. In the most serious cases, doctors have had success in the treatment of Type 1 diabetes with pancreas transplants. Researchers have also experimented with use of transplanted islet cells rather than transplant of the entire pancreas. One challenge in the transplant area is the need for immune suppressive drugs to prevent rejection. A second challenge, and the one that stem cell therapy might help to address, is the lack of availability of donor organs. We are conducting early-stage research into the use of a novel population of adult stem cells isolated from donated cadaver pancreatic tissue in the treatment of Type 1 diabetes. Pancreatic stem cells have shown the ability to produce insulin in mouse models of diabetes. We are currently 9 Table of Contents investigating these findings with additional animal studies and working to better understand how to isolate these cells and expand them while still preserving their ability to produce insulin. Our diabetes program is based on technology that has been licensed to us by Massachusetts General Hospital. Other Areas of Interest We expect to supplement our internal research and product development efforts through the acquisition or licensing from third parties of products and technologies that support our business strategy. We also expect to continue to look to structure high value collaborative relationships with industry leaders particularly where the involvement of a strategic partner may significantly improve the chances of commercial success or where a partner possesses the resources and expertise to develop and commercialize products for indications outside the scope of our internal development programs. Our ViaCord Reproductive Health Business Our ViaCord Reproductive Health business unit is responsible for marketing and sales of our ViaCord product offering for the collection, testing, processing and storage of umbilical cord stem cells, and for development of ViaCyte, our product candidate for the cryopreservation of human eggs for future in vitro fertilization use. ViaCord: Umbilical Cord Blood Preservation Through our ViaCord product offering, we offer expectant families the chance to preserve their baby’s umbilical cord blood for possible future use by the child or potentially a related family member. Stem cells derived from umbilical cord blood are currently a treatment option for over 40 diseases, including cancers such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia and Non-Hodgkins lymphoma, certain bone marrow failure syndromes such as severe aplastic anemia and neuroblastoma, certain blood disorders such as sickle cell anemia and other diseases such as Hurler syndrome and severe combined immune deficiency, or SCID. Studies have shown that umbilical cord stem cells transplants from a person’s own umbilical cord blood or a related matching donor such as a sibling have a higher survival rate and a lower incidence of GVHD, a serious potential side effect of transplants, than transplants from an unrelated donor. Through our ViaCord product offering, we provide the following services to each customer: Collection. We provide a kit that contains all of the materials necessary for collecting the newborn’s umbilical cord blood at birth and packaging the unit for transportation to our laboratory. The kit also provides for collecting a maternal blood sample for later testing. Comprehensive Testing. At our laboratory, we conduct several tests on the cord blood unit which are essential in the event the unit is ever needed for transplant. These tests include volume collected, number and viability of nucleated cells, sterility, blood typing and the percent of stem cells. The maternal blood sample is tested for infectious diseases. Processing. At our state-of-the-art laboratory, we process the cord blood using a process designed to maximize the number of stem cells preserved. Cryopreservation. After processing and testing, we freeze the cord blood unit in a controlled-manner and store it using liquid nitrogen. Published data indicates that cord blood retains viability and function for 15 years, and potentially longer, when stored in this manner. All of our processing and storage of cord blood products is handled at our own cord blood processing and storage facility located in Hebron, Kentucky. Our ViaCell Reproductive Health business sales and marketing organization consists of sales and marketing professionals supporting our ViaCord product. We have an expanding field sales organization, with representatives in territories which cover the largest birthing centers in the United States who educate obstetricians, child birth educators, and hospitals on the benefits of cord blood preservation. In addition, our internal marketing staff targets two primary segments: high-birthing obstetrics practices and expectant 10 Table of Contents families. We educate expectant families through many mediums, including targeted advertising, direct mail and web-based marketing activities. Over the past several years, the number of families choosing to preserve their baby’s umbilical cord blood has grown significantly. In 2005, we generated revenue of $43.8 million from ViaCord compared to $36.8 million in 2004. We currently store over 90,000 cord blood units for customers. We have established a leading position in this emerging field, with an estimated market share of approximately 24% total units stored, based on estimates by the independent organization Parent’s Guide to Cord Blood Banks of total units stored in family cord blood banks (356,000 as of the end of 2005). We believe that, based on the demographic profile of our average ViaCord customer, the total available target market for the industry could grow to 30% of the approximately 4 million annual births in the United States in the next several years. ViaCyte We are working to leverage our ViaCord Reproductive Health business unit by developing a proprietary media intended for the cryopreservation of human oocytes. We believe that, if successfully developed, an oocyte cryopreservation product could allow a woman to have a child later in life, using one of her own younger oocytes, and may also address currently unmet needs of female cancer patients who, as a result of chemotherapy and radiation treatment, may be at risk of compromised fertility. Women diagnosed with cancer could preserve their oocytes in order to preserve their ability to have a child in the future. Oocyte cryopreservation may also be an attractive option for women (or couples) who require IVF, but who have ethical concerns about embryo cryopreservation as well as for those individuals seeking donor oocytes, but for whom the logistics of coordinating a donor-recipient cycle present a challenge. Background. In the United States and elsewhere in the world, more women are choosing to have children later in life. The average age for a woman having her first child is almost 25, as compared to age 21 in 1970, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. This trend is driven in part by rising birth rates for women in their 30’s and 40’s. Despite this trend, female fertility actually begins to decline at around age 26, and declines more rapidly after age 35. Declining oocyte viability due to the natural aging process is one of the major factors contributing to compromised fertility in women. While methods for preserving sperm and embryos are well-established and have been utilized in in vitro fertilization procedures for the past three decades, methods for preserving oocytes have not been widely employed due to difficulties encountered in freezing this cell. The oocyte is the largest cell in the body and, due to its large liquid volume, tends to form ice crystals during the freezing process. Formation of ice crystals can damage this cell, making it unsuitable to develop into a healthy embryo. These obstacles represent a significant barrier to the cryopreservation of oocytes for treatment of chemotherapy-treated, donor-recipient, IVF and age-related infertility patients. ViaCyte Product Candidate. We have licensed a proprietary high choline cryopreservation media that is designed for use with a slow freezing technique to help protect oocytes from damage during cryopreservation. We believe that, if successfully developed, our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate would complement our existing ViaCord product by: • using our existing operational infrastructure and facilities, including our cell processing and storage facility in Hebron, Kentucky where long-term storage of oocytes would be maintained; and • utilizing our sales, marketing and clinical support staff and our current marketing channels to educate consumers and healthcare professionals, including obstetricians, gynecologists, and oncologists. Status of Program. We are in discussions with the FDA on an Investigational Drug Exemption, or IDE, with the FDA to allow our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate to be used in a clinical trial. The goal of the clinical trial is to generate data to submit to the FDA for a 510(k) application. In response to the original 510(k) application filed by our media supplier, the FDA indicated that the media supplier had not demonstrated substantial equivalence of the media to a predicate device and, as a result, the FDA could not clear the media for commercial use. The FDA indicated that the 510(k) application could be re-submitted when additional data supporting substantial equivalence of the media to a predicate device was available. The FDA has indicated that we will need to conduct a clinical study of ViaCyte in oocyte cryopreservation that 11 Table of Contents produces pregnancy, birth rate data and safety information to support the application. We are in discussions with the FDA related to the IDE and, in particular, the design and size of the trial. If we are able to reach agreement with the FDA, we expect to commence a clinical trial of our ViaCyte oocyte cryopreservation product candidate in late 2006. Collaborations, Licenses and Strategic Relationships Our most significant collaborations, licenses and strategic relationships are described below: Amgen In December 2003, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Amgen Inc. under which we received a royalty-free, worldwide, non-exclusive license to certain Amgen growth factors for use as reagents in producing stem cell therapy products. In August 2005, we expanded the collaboration to include an additional growth factor. Amgen has an option to collaborate with us on any product or products that incorporate a licensed Amgen growth factor or technology. Each time Amgen exercises a collaboration option, it must partially reimburse our past development costs based on a pre-determined formula, share in the future development costs, and take primary responsibility for clinical development, regulatory matters, marketing and commercialization of the product. For each collaboration product that receives regulatory approval, Amgen will pay us a cash milestone payment for the first regulatory approval for the first indication of the product in the United States. The parties will share in profits and losses resulting from the collaboration product’s worldwide sales. Either we or Amgen may later opt-out of any product collaboration upon advance notice; however, we will retain our license to the Amgen growth factors if either we or Amgen opts out of any product collaboration. In the event Amgen does not exercise its option to collaborate on a particular product, we will owe Amgen a royalty on any sales of such product, if successfully developed. Under this agreement, we can purchase current Good Manufacturing Practices grade growth factors manufactured by Amgen at a specified price. Upon the mutual agreement of both parties, we also may receive a license to additional Amgen growth factors or technologies that may be useful in stem cell therapy. The agreement may be terminated by either party following an uncured material breach by the other party, by mutual consent or by Amgen in certain events involving our bankruptcy or insolvency. Unless earlier terminated, the agreement terminates on the later of the expiration of the licensed Amgen patents or when no products are being co-developed or jointly commercialized between us and Amgen or solely developed by us. The expiration of the issued licensed Amgen patents will occur no earlier than 2013, subject to extension upon the issuance of a patent based on a pending application or a renewal, reissuance, reexamination or other continuation or extension of a covered patent. In conjunction with this license and collaboration agreement, Amgen made a $20 million investment in our preferred stock. As part of this agreement, we may offer Amgen the right to make an additional investment of up to $15 million in connection with a future strategic transaction by us that would further our collaboration with Amgen. Amgen also holds a warrant to purchase 560,000 shares of our common stock at $12.00 per share as consideration for a previous license agreement that was superceded by this license and collaboration agreement. In connection with the expansion of the collaboration agreement, we issued Amgen a warrant to purchase 200,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $7.85 per share. The warrant will vest upon the successful treatment of a human in a Phase 2 clinical trial utilizing the specific growth factor that is the subject of the amendment. The term of the warrant is seven years from the effective date of the amendment. The warrant will be recognized as in-process research and development expense when and if it vests, based on the fair value at that time. Tyho Galileo Research Laboratory On September 1, 2004, we entered into a License Agreement with Tyho Galileo Research Laboratory, or Galileo, under which we received exclusive rights to a patent covering proprietary media for use in the field of oocyte cryopreservation. As part of this agreement, we also entered into a research collaboration with Galileo which is focused on the development of technologies in the field of oocyte and embryo cryopreservation. Our 12 Table of Contents agreement with Galileo includes funding by us of research at Galileo, annual license fees, milestone payments to Galileo upon achievement of certain events and a royalty on revenues generated from the sale of ViaCyte, our oocyte cryopreservation product candidate, if successfully developed. The agreement may be terminated by either party following an uncured breach by the other party. The license expires on a product-by-product, media-by-media and country-by-country basis as the underlying patents in such country expire (if the product or media is covered by a patent claim under the license), or ten years from the date of the first commercial sale in such country (if the product or media is not covered by a patent claim under the license). The patent licensed expires in 2017 if not extended. Genzyme In December 2004, we entered into a Research Agreement with Genzyme under which we provide islet stem cells from donated pancreases to Genzyme, and Genzyme conducts specified research using the islet stem cells. We have granted Genzyme a right of first negotiation to enter into an agreement with us in the field of diseases and disorders of glucose metabolism or insulin insufficiency, including diabetes, using the results of the research conducted by Genzyme. If we do not reach an agreement in such negotiations, we cannot, for a period of 12 months following such negotiations, enter into an agreement with another party on terms more favorable than those we last offered to Genzyme without first offering such terms to Genzyme. The agreement may be terminated by either party following an uncured breach by the other party or by Genzyme if it holds a good faith belief that further research efforts are not commercially practicable. Jan van Heek, former Executive Vice President of Genzyme and currently an employee of that company, is a member of our board of directors. Johns Hopkins University License In August 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Johns Hopkins University and Zhejiang University for an exclusive license to inventions entitled “Ex vivo Expansion of Cord Mononuclear Cells on Umbilical Cord Blood derived Stromal Cells”. This license agreement allows us to develop and market a new technology for the expansion of hematopoietic stem cells that is based on a different principle than our proprietary method of Selective Amplification. The agreement also includes annual license fees, milestone payments upon achievement of certain events, coverage of patent and legal fees and a royalty on revenues generated from the sale of a resulting product, if successfully developed. The term of the license is for 20 years and can be cancelled by us at anytime without cause with specified amount of notice. Massachusetts General Hospital In March 2002, we entered into a license agreement with Massachusetts General Hospital, or MGH under which we received exclusive, worldwide rights to develop and commercialize products based on patents (currently pending) covering inventions of Dr. Joel Habener pertaining to pancreatic stem cells for the treatment of diabetes. The agreement provides for the payments of milestones to MGH upon certain events and royalties based on sales of products covered by the license. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property is a strategic part of our business. We currently own or have exclusively in-licensed six US patents. Three of our owned and issued US patents are directed to methods of manufacturing target populations of cells for use as cellular medicines. These patents broadly cover the use of selection elements to select a target population of cells continuously, intermittently during, or after a culture phase. The Selective Amplification technology covered by two of these patents is core to the manufacture of our lead stem cell product candidate, CB001. These patents expire in 2015 if not extended. One of our owned and issued US patents is directed to the method of isolating and expanding hemangioblast cells from a non-fetal source. This patent expires in 2017 if not extended. Corresponding international applications are pending. One of our in-licensed US patents has been exclusively licensed from Galileo, and is directed to a method of cryopreserving human oocytes using proprietary media so that the oocytes enter into a dormant state and are then stored for future use. This patent expires in 2017 if not extended. Another of our US patents, exclusively 13 Table of Contents in-licensed from MGH, broadly covers methods for the treatment of type I insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and other conditions using nestin-positive islet derived progenitor cells, or NIPs, which can be expanded and differentiated into pancreatic islet cells, i.e., insulin-producing beta cells. This patent will expire in 2020 if not extended. We own two pending US patent applications directed to compositions and methods of using USSCs to treat a broad class of diseases. Furthermore, we own outright or have exclusively in-licensed 52 international patent applications covering a variety of areas, and have non-exclusive licenses to 30 US patents and patent applications and 86 foreign patents and patent applications, including patents covering growth factors used in our Selective Amplification process. The patent positions of companies like ours present complex legal and factual issues and, as a result, the enforceability of our patents cannot be predicted with any certainty. Our issued patents, those licensed to us, and those that may issue to us in the future may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights granted under our patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us. There may be existing patents in the U.S. or in foreign countries or patents issued in the future that might be asserted to be infringed by our products, and that are unavailable to license on acceptable terms. Our inability to obtain such licenses may hinder our ability to develop or commercialize our products. We expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights, or to determine the validity, scope and non-infringement of patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to our activities. For example, Pharmastem Therapeutics, Inc. has filed suit against us claiming that our ViaCord cord blood preservation product offering infringes certain of Pharmastem’s patents. For a description of this litigation, see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. Intellectual property litigation could create business uncertainty and consume substantial financial and human resources. Ultimately the outcome of such litigation could hinder our ability to market our products. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be approved for sale and commercialized, our relevant patent rights may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization. Expiration of patents we own or license could adversely affect our ability to protect future product development and, consequently, our operating results and financial position. Patent rights and other proprietary rights are important in our business and for the development of our product candidates. We have sought, and intend to continue to seek patent protection for our inventions and rely upon patents, trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and in-licensing opportunities to develop and maintain a competitive advantage. In order to protect these rights, know-how and trade secrets, we typically require employees, consultants, collaborators, and advisors to enter into agreements with us, generally stating that they will not disclose any confidential information about us to third parties for a certain period of time, and will otherwise not use confidential information for anyone’s benefit but ours. In the case of our employees and certain of our consultants, the agreements also provide that all inventions conceived by such persons will be our exclusive property. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of breach. Competition We are aware of products manufactured or under development by competitors that are used for the prevention or treatment of diseases and health conditions which we have targeted for product development. Stem cell therapy competitors with products that could potentially compete with CB001 include commercial and development-stage companies offering or intending to offer stem cell products derived from bone marrow, cord blood or mobilized peripheral blood, or devices or services for processing and producing cells derived from these tissues, for use in stem cell transplants. Specific competitors include Aastrom Biosciences, Celgene Corporation, Cellerant Therapeutics, Inc., Gamida-Cell Ltd. and Osiris Therapeutics Inc. In particular, Gamida-Cell, a private company based in Israel, has completed a Phase 1/2 trial of a hematopoietic stem cell product candidate made from umbilical cord blood similar to CB001 that is intended for use in hematopoietic stem cell transplants. Enrollment for this trial was completed in August 2004. 14 Table of Contents If successfully developed, CB001 would also face competition from the increasing availability of cord blood units and the increasing use of multiple cord transplants. If public cord blood banks are able to increase their inventories and obtain more units with a higher volume of stem cells, then public cord blood banks may be able to better compete with our potential cell therapy. In addition to these cell therapy products, competition for CB001 may be in the form of new and better non-cell based drugs to treat leukemias, lymphomas, myelomas and certain genetic diseases. We are aware of several competitors developing stem cell therapies for the treatment of cardiac disease, including Genzyme, Bioheart Inc., Cytori Therapeutics, Osiris Therapeutics, and potentially others. Genzyme and Bioheart are developing products consisting of skeletal myoblasts isolated from muscle, expanded in culture, and injected into a patient’s heart to repair dead tissue. Genzyme recently announced that it has ceased enrollment of new patients in its Phase 2 trial after its Data Monitoring Committee concluded there was a low likelihood that the trial would result in the hypothesized improvements in heart function. Bioheart is conducting a Phase 1/2 study. Osiris is conducting a Phase 1 study of its product candidate in the cardiac area which consists of mesenchymal stem cells isolated from donor bone marrow, expanded in culture. Cytori is developing adipose-tissue derived stem cells intended to be used in cardiac patients in an autologous manner and is in preclinical investigations using large animal models. Other companies, including Hydra Biosciences, have preclinical development efforts using growth factors to stimulate repair of endogenous heart tissue. In addition, many other companies are marketing or developing non-cell based drugs for the treatment of cardiac disease. At this time, we cannot evaluate how our product candidates in cell therapy, if successfully developed, would compare technologically, clinically or commercially to any other potential cellular and non-cellular products being developed by or currently marketed by competitors because our product candidates are in the early stages of development and we cannot predict the cost, efficacy and safety of those products nor when any such products would be available for sale. Our competitors in the cord blood preservation industry include the approximately 20 other private family cord blood banks in the United States, including Cbr Systems (Cord Blood Registry), Cryo-Cell International, California Cryo-bank, CorCell, LifeBankUSA, and New England Cord Blood Bank. Some of our competitors, including Cryo-Cell, CorCell, and LifeBankUSA, charge a lower price for their products than we do. Other competitors such as LifeBankUSA, a division of Celgene, a publicly traded corporation, may have greater financial resources than we do. There are also more than fifty public cord blood banks throughout the world, including the New York Blood Center (National Cord Blood Program), University of Colorado Cord Blood Bank, Milan Cord Blood Bank, Düsseldorf Cord Blood Bank, and others. In 2005, President Bush signed into law the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005, or the Stem Cell Therapeutic Act. The Stem Cell Therapeutic Act provides federal funding for a national system of public cord blood banks in order to increase the number of available cord blood units to at least 150,000 units. It also contains provisions designed to encourage cord blood donations from an ethnically diverse population. We expect that the Stem Cell Therapeutic Act will increase the number of public cord banks. Our ability to compete with other private family and public cord blood banks will depend on our ability to distinguish ourselves as a leading provider of comprehensive, quality cord blood preservation products with clinical stem cell transplant experience and a research and development organization focused on the development and commercialization of cell therapies derived from cord blood. Our ability to compete with public cord blood banks will also depend on the extent to which related cord blood transplants show better efficacy and safety than unrelated cord blood transplants. Our competitors in the development of oocyte cryopreservation include IVF centers and individual companies that already offer oocyte cryopreservation, though none has taken its product through the rigors of the FDA approval process. We are aware of approximately 20 IVF centers already offering oocyte cryopreservation, which may make it more difficult for us to establish our product if successfully developed, or to achieve a significant market share. IVF centers currently offering this service include Florida Institute for Reproductive Medicine, Stanford University, The Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine, and Egg Bank USA (through Advanced Fertility Clinic). Companies offering oocyte cryopreservation include Extend 15 Table of Contents Fertility. We are in discussion with the FDA on a clinical trial of our ViaCyte oocyte cryopreservation product candidate. If we are able to reach agreement with the FDA and are successful in our development efforts, our ability to compete with these entities will depend on our ability to demonstrate the success of our oocyte cryopreservation method in producing healthy births from previously cryopreserved oocytes, as well as our ability to distinguish ourselves as a leading provider of a high quality oocyte cryopreservation product and our ability to prevent others from using our proprietary method. We expect that companies with alternative forms of media and other techniques for cryopreservation will also seek FDA approval. We anticipate that, if we are successful in our development efforts, we will face increased competition in the future from new companies and individual IVF centers that offer oocyte cryopreservation using these alternative methods. Government Regulation Regulations Relating to ViaCell Virtually all of the products we develop will require regulatory approval or licensure by governmental agencies, including the FDA, prior to commercialization. We must obtain similar approvals from comparable agencies in most foreign countries. Regulatory agencies have established mandatory procedures and safety standards that apply to preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as to the manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. State, local and other authorities may also regulate pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. This regulatory process can take many years and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. FDA Regulation of Biologics, Drugs, and Medical Devices The FDA regulates human therapeutic products in one of three broad categories: biologics, drugs, or medical devices. Premarket Approval of Biologics and Drugs. The FDA generally requires the following steps for premarket approval or licensure of a new biological product or new drug product: • preclinical laboratory and animal tests to assess a drug’s biological activity and to identify potential safety problems; • submission to the FDA of an IND, which must receive FDA clearance before clinical trials may begin; • adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended indication; • compliance with cGMP regulations and standards; • submission to the FDA of a biologics license application, or BLA, or new drug application, or NDA, for marketing that includes adequate results of preclinical testing and clinical trials; and • FDA review of the marketing application in order to determine, among other things, whether the product is safe, effective and potent for its intended uses. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process although the phases may overlap. Phase 1 clinical trials typically involve a small number of volunteers or patients and are designed to provide information about both product safety and the expected dose of the drug. Phase 2 clinical trials generally provide additional information on efficacy and safety in a limited patient population. Phase 3 clinical trials are generally large-scale, well-controlled studies designed to provide statistically valid proof of efficacy, as well as safety and potency. During all phases of clinical development, regulatory agencies require extensive monitoring and auditing of all clinical activities, clinical data and clinical trial investigators. Preparing marketing applications involve considerable data collection, verification, analysis and expense. In responding to the submission of a BLA or NDA, the FDA must first accept the filing and review the BLA or NDA for a specific indication. Following review of the BLA or NDA, the FDA may request additional clinical data or deny approval or licensure of the application if it determines that the application does not satisfy its approval criteria. On occasion, regulatory authorities may require larger or additional studies leading to unanticipated delay or expense. In addition, the manufacturing facilities must be inspected and found to be 16 Table of Contents in full compliance with cGMP standards before approval for marketing and must continue to comply with cGMP standards post approval. Further clinical trials may be required after approval to continue to monitor safety or to gain approval to promote the use of the product for any additional indications. Our cellular therapeutic products will be regulated as biologics and subject to the above requirements. Premarket Clearance or Approval of Medical Devices. Medical devices are also subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, including 510(k) clearance or Premarket Approval, or PMA, prior to commercial distribution in the United States. Depending on the risk posed by the medical device, there are two pathways for FDA marketing clearance of medical devices. For devices deemed by FDA to pose relatively less risk (Class I or Class II devices), manufacturers must submit a premarket notification requesting permission for commercial distribution; this is known as 510(k) clearance. To obtain 510(k) clearance, the premarket notification must demonstrate that the proposed device is substantially equivalent in intended use and in safety and effectiveness to a previously 510(k) cleared device or a device that was commercially distributed before May 28, 1976 and for which FDA has not yet called for submission of a PMA. Some low risk devices are exempt from 510(k) clearance requirements. The other pathway, PMA approval, is required for devices deemed to pose the greatest risk (e.g., life-sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices) or devices deemed not substantially equivalent to a previously 510(k) cleared device or to a class III device for which PMA applications have not been called. The PMA approval pathway is much more costly, lengthy and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance pathway. A PMA applicant must provide extensive preclinical and clinical trial data as well as information about the device and its components regarding, among other things, device design, manufacturing, and labeling. As with BLA and NDA submissions, FDA must first accept the filing and review the PMA for a specific indication. FDA review of the PMA typically takes one to three years, but may last longer, especially if the FDA asks for more information or clarification of information already provided. As part of the PMA review, the FDA will typically inspect the manufacturer’s facilities for compliance with the Quality System Regulation, or QSR, requirements, which impose specific testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures. Assuming we are successful in our efforts to reach agreement with the FDA on a clinical trial design and size, and if the results of such trial are favorable, we expect to seek 510(k) clearance for our ViaCyte oocyte cryopreservation product candidate. There is no assurance, however that the FDA will agree that we meet the standards for 510(k) clearance. The FDA could at any time determine that some or all of the components used to cryopreserve the oocytes will require PMA approval, which would involve additional time and expense. Compliance Requirements after Licensure, Approval or Clearance. Manufacturers of biologics, drug products and devices licensed, approved or cleared by the FDA must comply with FDA requirements for labeling, advertising, promotion, record keeping, reporting of adverse experiences and other reporting requirements. Violations of FDA or other governmental regulatory requirements during either the pre- or post-marketing stages may result in various adverse consequences. Adverse Event Reporting. We are required to comply with FDA regulations on reporting of side effects and adverse effects that are reported during clinical trials and post-marketing. Regulatory authorities track this information. Side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede or prevent marketing approval. Similarly, adverse events that are reported after marketing approval can result in additional limitations being placed on the product’s use, and potentially, withdrawal or suspension of the product from the market. Outside the U.S. To market a biologic drug product or device outside the United States, we will most likely have to obtain approval for manufacturing and marketing of each product or device from foreign regulatory authorities. The approval procedure varies among countries, may involve additional preclinical testing and clinical trials, and the time required may differ from that required for FDA approval or licensure. Although there is now a centralized European Union approval mechanism in place, each European country may nonetheless impose its own procedures and requirements, many of which could be time-consuming and expensive. Additionally, European approval standards for cellular therapy are still under development and consequently approval of cell therapy products in Europe may require additional data that we may not be able to satisfy. 17 Table of Contents Regulations Relating To ViaCord FDA Regulations. We have registered ViaCord with the FDA as a cord blood preservation service, listed our products with the FDA, and are subject to FDA inspection. In addition, the FDA has recently adopted good tissue practice, or GTP, regulations that establish a comprehensive regulatory program for human cellular and tissue-based products and finalized rules for donor eligibility that became effective in May 2005. We believe that we comply with applicable regulatory requirements. These regulations do not require licensing of minimally manipulated homologous, cryopreserved hematopoietic stem cells for autologous use or use for a first or second degree blood relative. As a result, ViaCord cord blood collection kits, and the collected cells, while regulated, do not need to be licensed or cleared. The FDA could, however, in the future require us to file an IND or BLA and seek approval for the cell product kits or could impose other regulatory requirements applicable to the collection and storage of cord blood. Medical device clearance or approval for the cord blood collection kits or compliance with any new requirements that may be imposed in the future might involve the submission of a substantial volume of data and might require a lengthy substantive review. In such event, the FDA could require that we cease distributing the collection kits and require us to obtain 510(k) clearance or PMA approval prior to further distribution of the kits. State Regulations. Of the states in which we provide cord blood preservation services, only New Jersey, New York, Maryland, Kentucky, Illinois and Pennsylvania currently require that cord blood services be licensed, permitted or registered. We are currently licensed, permitted or registered to operate in all of these states. If other states adopt requirements for licensing, permitting or registration of cord blood services, we would have to obtain licenses, permits or registration to continue providing services in those states. Privacy Laws. Federal and state laws govern our ability to obtain and, in some cases, to use and disclose data we may need to conduct certain of our activities. Through the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, Congress required the Department of Health and Human Services to issue a series of regulations establishing standards for the electronic transmission of certain health information. Among these regulations were standards for the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Because ViaCell does not engage in certain electronic transactions related to reimbursement for health care and because blood and tissue procurement and banking activities are exempt, ViaCell is not a covered health care provider subject to HIPAA. Many of the health care providers and research institutions with whom we collaborate and the hospitals, obstetricians, and other healthcare providers who collect umbilical cord blood for our ViaCord customers, however, are subject to HIPAA. These entities may share identifiable patient information with ViaCell only as permitted by HIPAA (for example, with written patient authorizations which comply with certain detailed requirements). Although ViaCell is not directly subject to HIPAA, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a research collaborator or health care provider who has not satisfied HIPAA’s disclosure requirements. HIPAA does not preempt or override state privacy laws that provide even more protection for an individual’s health information. The requirements of these laws could further complicate our ability to obtain necessary research data from our collaborators or patient information related to our ViaCord customers. In addition, certain state privacy and genetic testing laws may directly regulate our research activities, affecting the manner in which we use and disclose an individual’s health information, potentially increasing our cost of doing business, and exposing us to liability claims. In addition, patients, research collaborators and healthcare providers may have contractual rights that further limit our ability to use and disclose individually identifiable health information. Claims that we have violated an individual’s privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Other Regulations. In addition to regulations enforced by the FDA and privacy law requirements, we also are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro-organisms and various radioactive compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. These laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. 18 Table of Contents Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury to employees and third parties from these materials will not occur. We may not have adequate insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we employed 211 individuals. Of our 211 employees, 202 are based in the United States, and 9 are in Singapore. All of our employees are at-will employees, other than Marc Beer, Stephen Dance, Morey Kraus, Stephan Wnendt, Mary Thistle and Anne Marie Cook, who have employment agreements. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and believe we maintain satisfactory relations with our employees. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT RESULTS NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our current projections as to future financial performance, our expectations as to the potential and anticipated results of our development programs, and our views as to the possible outcome of pending litigation and actions related to our intellectual property portfolio. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about such future events. While we believe these expectations are reasonable, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those discussed in this report under this heading “Risk Factors That May Affect Results”. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place substantial weight on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of these statements. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and may never become profitable. We have generated operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2005, we had cumulative net losses of approximately $173.4 million. These losses have resulted principally from the costs of our research and development activities, which have totaled approximately $101.6 million since our inception. We expect our losses to continue for the next several years as we make substantial expenditures to further develop and commercialize our product candidates. In particular, we expect that our rate of spending will accelerate over the next several years as a result of increased costs and expenses associated with research, clinical trials, submissions for regulatory approvals, and the expansion of clinical and commercial scale manufacturing facilities. Furthermore, we expect to make additional sales and marketing investments in the near term in our ViaCell Reproductive Health business, as we seek to expand the market for our ViaCord product offering. Our ability to become profitable will depend on many factors, including our ability to increase sales of our ViaCord product offering particularly in the face of significant competition, and our ability to establish the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, obtain necessary regulatory approvals for such product candidates and successfully commercialize the resulting products. We cannot assure you that we will ever become profitable. Factors that may affect our ability to become profitable are described in more detail elsewhere in this “Risk Factors that May Affect Results” Section. We may not be able to sustain our current level of revenues or our recent growth rates. Revenues from ViaCord have grown significantly over the past several years, from $7.1 million in fiscal year 2001, to $20.1 million, $30.9 million, $36.8 million, and $43.8 million in fiscal years 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005, respectively. We believe that this is a result of our increased marketing efforts and from increased awareness by the public generally of the concept of umbilical cord blood banking. We may not be able in the 19 Table of Contents future, however, to sustain this growth rate nor the current level of ViaCord’s revenues. The principal factors that may adversely affect our revenues include competition from other private cord blood banks, the risks of associated litigation, in particular, the pending PharmaStem litigation, the risks of operational issues and the risks of reputational damage. These and other risks that may affect our future revenues are described in more detail elsewhere in this “Risk Factors That May Affect Results” section. If we are unable to sustain our revenues, we may need to reduce our product development activities or raise additional funds earlier than anticipated or on unfavorable terms, and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we do not prevail in the PharmaStem litigation, we may be prevented from selling our ViaCord product, or may have to incur significant expenses. In 2002, PharmaStem Therapeutics, Inc. filed suit against us and several other defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging infringement of US Patents No. 5,004,681 (‘681) and No. 5,192,553 (‘553), relating to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood. We believe that we do not infringe these patents and that the patents are invalid. In 2003, a jury ruled against us and the other defendants, Cbr Systems Inc, CorCell, Inc. and Cryo-Cell International Inc, who represent a majority of the family cord blood preservation industry finding that the patents were valid and enforceable, and that the defendants infringed the patents. A judgment was entered against us for approximately $2.9 million, based on 6.125% royalties on our revenue from the processing and storage of umbilical cord blood since April 2000. In 2004, the District Court judge in the case overturned the jury’s verdict and entered judgment in our favor and against PharmaStem, stating that PharmaStem had failed to show infringement. PharmaStem has appealed the judge’s decision. We have appealed the jury’s finding as to validity of the patents. A hearing on the appeal is scheduled for April 4, 2006. In July 2004, PharmaStem filed a second complaint against us. The second complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging infringement of U.S. Patents No. 6,461,645 (‘645) and 6,569,427 (‘427), which also relate to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood. We believe that the patents in this new action are invalid and that we do not infringe them in any event. On January 7, 2005, PharmaStem filed a Motion for Preliminary Injunction in the Massachusetts litigation. That motion is currently stayed. We believe the issues presented in this case are substantially the same as the issues presented in the original Delaware litigation. Accordingly, we filed a motion to consolidate the Massachusetts case with six other actions against other defendants in a single proceeding in the District of Delaware. On February 16, 2005, our request was granted. The cases have been consolidated in Delaware. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO, has ordered the re-examination of both the ‘553 method patent and the ‘681 composition patent at issue in the first case and the ‘645 and the ‘427 patents at issue in the second case based on prior art. A second re-examination of the ‘427 patent was ordered in order to determine whether certain claims of the patent should expire in 2008, rather than in 2010. Final decisions on the re-examinations have not yet been issued. On October 6, 2005, the Delaware court granted our motion to stay all discovery in the second lawsuit pending decisions from the Federal Circuit on PharmaStem’s appeal of the District Court of Delaware’s ruling in the original case and from the U.S. PTO on the patent re-examinations. In either of the pending cases, if we are ultimately found to infringe, we could have a significant damages award entered against us. If we are found to infringe or at any other time during the course of either case, including possibly if the court of appeals were to overturn the district court’s non-infringement ruling, we could also face an injunction which could prohibit us from further engaging in the umbilical cord stem cell business absent a license from PharmaStem. PharmaStem would be under no legal obligation to grant us a license or to do so on economically reasonable terms, and previously informed us that it would not do so after October 15, 2004. While we do not believe this outcome is likely, in the event of an injunction, if we are not able to obtain a license under the disputed patents on economically reasonable terms or at all and we cannot operate under an equitable doctrine known as “intervening rights,” we will be required to stop preserving and storing cord 20 Table of Contents blood and to cease using cryopreserved umbilical cord blood as a source for stem cell products. We may enter into settlement negotiations with PharmaStem regarding the litigation. We cannot predict whether any such negotiations would lead to a settlement of these lawsuits or what the terms or timing of any such settlement might be, if it occurs at all. A loss in either of the PharmaStem lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from our ViaCord product offering, which is currently our only commercialized product, and could create business uncertainty. Even if we ultimately prevail, we are likely to incur significant legal expenses during the course of the cases. If we are not able to successfully develop and commercialize new products, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations. No company has yet been successful in its efforts to develop and commercialize a stem cell product. Stem cell products in general may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit its approval or commercial use. Our cellular therapy product candidates are in the early stages of development. Only one of our therapeutic product candidates, CB001, has entered human clinical trials. CB001 consists of a highly enriched population of hematopoietic stem cells which are expanded from umbilical cord blood using our Selective Amplification technology. While stem cell populations expanded using our Selective Amplification technology have shown promising results in preclinical research, those results have not been obtained in humans and may not be indicative of results we may encounter in clinical trials. We may discover that manipulation of stem cells using Selective Amplification or any of our other expansion technologies changes the biological characteristics of the stem cells. For this or other reasons, therapeutic products developed with our stem cell expansion technology may fail to work as intended, even in areas where stem cell therapy is already in use. This may result from the failure of our product candidates to: • properly engraft into the recipient’s body in the desired manner; • provide the intended therapeutic benefits; or • achieve benefits or a safety profile that is acceptable and better or equal to existing therapies. Drug development in general involves a high degree of risk. We are likely to encounter hurdles and unexpected issues as we proceed in our development of any particular product candidate. For example, in the second half of 2005, the FDA put our Phase I clinical trial of CB001 on clinical hold while we assessed two cases of Grade IV aGVHD, a potential and sometimes fatal side effect of transplantation. The FDA lifted the clinical hold in December 2005. However there is no assurance that we will not encounter additional safety issues that may cause us to further delay or discontinue the trial, including additional cases of aGVHD. Several other factors could also prevent completion or cause further delay in this trial, including if we are unable to enroll the final two patients. To date, enrollment in our Phase 1 clinical trial for CB001 has been slower than anticipated and we cannot predict whether or when we will be able to enroll the final patients to complete the trial. We also may encounter hurdles related to the clinical path for CB001. For example, in improving our Selective Amplification process, the resulting product candidate may be viewed by the FDA as sufficiently different from the product candidate being used in our current Phase 1 clinical trial. If so, the FDA may require that we conduct new Phase 1 clinical trials using the product candidate manufactured using the improved process to generate appropriate safety data to support later stage clinical trials. Also, there is evidence that clinicians are increasingly using a new procedure for stem cell transplant patients involving less toxic doses of chemotherapy and radiation than used in conventional transplants. This so called “mini-transplant” procedure is not being used in our Phase 1 trials. If we need to redesign trials for CB001 that incorporate mini-transplants, it could require repeating earlier trials. Repeating clinical trials for any reason would significantly delay in our development efforts related to CB001. As we obtain results and safety information from preclinical or clinical trials of our product candidates, we may elect to discontinue development or delay additional preclinical studies or clinical trials in order to 21 Table of Contents focus our resources on more promising product candidates. There is no assurance, for example, that the results of the CB001 Phase 1 clinical trial will warrant further clinical development or ultimately prove to be safe and effective. We may also change the indication being pursued for a particular product candidate or otherwise revise the development plan for that candidate. Moreover, product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through earlier clinical testing. We cannot market any product candidate until regulatory agencies grant marketing approval or licensure. The industry and the FDA have relatively little experience with therapeutics based on cellular medicine generally. As a result, the pathway to regulatory approval for our stem cell-based product candidates, including CB001, may be more complex and lengthy than the pathway for approval of a new conventional drug. Similarly, to obtain approval to market our stem cell products outside of the United States, we will need to submit clinical data concerning our products and receive regulatory approval from the appropriate governmental agencies. Standards for approval outside the United States may differ from those required by the FDA. We may encounter delays or rejections if changes occur in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a product candidate or during the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and we may never gain necessary approvals. Any difficulties that we encounter in developing our product candidates and in obtaining regulatory approval may have a substantial adverse impact on our operations and cause our stock price to decline significantly. If we are not able to successfully develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval, we will not be able to commercialize such products, and therefore may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to support our business. We expect that none of our cellular therapy product candidates will be commercially available for at least several years, if at all. We will need to devote significant additional research and development, financial resources and personnel to develop commercially viable products and obtain regulatory approvals. We may not be able to successfully develop our ViaCyte oocyte cryopreservation product candidate. We are in discussions with the FDA on an IDE to allow our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate to be used in a clinical trial. The goal of the clinical trial is to generate data to submit to the FDA for a 510(k) application. In response to the original 510(k) application filed by our media supplier, the FDA indicated that the media supplier had not demonstrated substantial equivalence of the media to a predicate device and, as a result, the FDA could not clear the media for commercial use. The FDA indicated that the 510(k) application could be re-submitted when additional data supporting substantial equivalence of the media to a predicate device were available. The FDA has indicated that we will need to conduct a clinical study of ViaCyte in oocyte cryopreservation that produces pregnancy and birth rate data to support the application. We are in discussions with the FDA related to the IDE and, in particular, the design and size of the trial. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to reach agreement with the FDA on a trial design or size that is feasible and acceptable to both the FDA and us. In addition, even if we undertake the clinical trial, there is no assurance that we will be able to show that our ViaCyte cryopreservation product is safe and effective for its intended use. While methods for preserving sperm and embryos are well-established and have been utilized in in vitro fertilization procedures for the past three decades, methods for cryopreserving oocytes have not been widely employed due to difficulties encountered in freezing this cell. The oocyte is the largest cell in the body and, due to its large liquid volume, tends to form ice crystals during the freezing process. Formation of ice crystals can damage this cell, making it unsuitable to develop into a healthy embryo. These obstacles represent a significant barrier to the cryopreservation of oocytes. There is no assurance that we will be able to generate the number of live births needed to show that our product candidate is effective and there is no assurance that we will not encounter unexpected safety issues. Even if we are successful in our efforts to reach agreement with the FDA on a clinical trial design and size and the results of such trial are favorable, there is no assurance that the FDA will agree that we have met the standards for 510(k) clearance. The FDA could at any time determine that some or all of the components used to cryopreserve the oocytes will require PMA approval and additional trials, which would involve additional time and expense. Even if we are successful in our efforts to 22 Table of Contents develop and gain approval for the ViaCyte oocyte cryopreservation product candidate, the FDA could ask for post-approval safety monitoring which would entail additional expense. We may not be able to raise additional funds necessary to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $60.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. In order to develop and bring our new products to market, we must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials. While we anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our current operations for the next three years, we may need or want to raise additional funding sooner, particularly if our business or operations change in a manner that consumes available resources more rapidly than we anticipate. We expect to attempt to raise additional funds well in advance of completely depleting our available funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the level of cash flows from sales of our ViaCord product; • the scope and results of our research and development programs; • the clinical pathway for each of our product candidates, including the number, size, scope and cost of clinical trials required to establish safety and efficacy; • the results of litigation; • the timing of and the costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates, which could be more lengthy or complex than obtaining approval for a new conventional drug given the FDA’s relatively little experience with cellular-based therapeutics; • the costs of research and development work focused on developing clinical and commercial scale processes for manufacturing cellular products and the costs of building and operating our manufacturing facilities, both in the near-term to support our clinical activities, and also in anticipation of growing our commercialization activities; • funds spent in connection with acquisitions of related technologies or businesses, including contingent payments that may be made in connection with our acquisition of Kourion Therapeutics; • the costs associated with expanding our portfolio of product candidates through licensing, collaborations or acquisitions; • the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including litigation costs and liabilities; and • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements and obtain milestones, royalties and other payments from collaborators. We may seek additional funding through collaborative arrangements and public or private financings. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we obtain additional capital through collaborative arrangements, these arrangements may require us to relinquish greater rights to our technologies or product candidates than we might otherwise have done. If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to our then existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of debt, our business may be affected by the amount of leverage we incur. For instance, such borrowings could subject us to covenants restricting our business activities, servicing interest would divert funds that would otherwise be available to support research and development, clinical or commercialization activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of our equity investors. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 23 Table of Contents We depend on patents and other proprietary rights that may fail to protect our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our product candidates, technologies and trade secrets. We own or have exclusive licenses to six U.S. patents and three international patents. We also own or have exclusive licenses to 14 pending applications in the United States and over 50 pending applications in foreign countries. Our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. Neither the U.S. PTO nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many biotechnology patents. The claims of our existing U.S. patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may not offer significant protection of our Selective Amplification and other technologies. Our patents on Selective Amplification, in particular, are quite broad in that they cover selection and amplification of any targeted cell population. While Selective Amplification is covered by issued patents and we are not aware of any challenges to the validity of these patents, patents with broad claims tend to be more vulnerable to challenge by other parties than patents with more narrowly written claims. Our patent applications covering USSCs claim these cells as well as their use in the treatment of many diseases. It is possible that these cells could be covered by other patents or patent applications which identify, isolate or use the same cells by other markers, although we are not aware of any. Third parties may challenge, narrow, invalidate or circumvent any patents we obtain based on these applications. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. PTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. Although we have not needed to take such action to date, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement or unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. For instance, our patents on Selective Amplification will expire in 2015. To the extent our product candidates based on that technology are not commercialized significantly ahead of this date, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such products, those products would not be protected by patents beyond 2015. Without patent protection, those products might have to compete with identical products by competitors. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how as trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Also, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary informa- 24 Table of Contents tion and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications that are infringed by our technologies or product candidates. Our success depends in part on our not infringing other parties’ patents and proprietary rights as well as not breaching any licenses relating to our technologies and product candidates. In the United States, patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, there may be patent applications of which we are unaware that will result in issued patents in our field, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We may inadvertently infringe third party patents or patent applications. These third parties could bring claims against us, our collaborators or our licensors that, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could additionally cause us to pay substantial damages. For example, some aspects of our Selective Amplification technology involve the use of antibodies, growth factors and other reagents that are, in certain cases, the subject of third party rights. We believe we have the rights to third party patents for use of all growth factors employed in manufacturing our current product candidates for preclinical and clinical testing, including licenses from Amgen for SCF and Flt3-L and GlaxoSmithKline for TPO mimetic. The media in which we amplify the cells is available from several commercial sources. Before we commercialize any product utilizing this technology, including CB001, we may need to obtain additional license rights to use reagents from third parties not covered by these patents or licenses. If we are not able to obtain these rights on reasonable terms or redesign our Selective Amplification process to use other reagents, we may not be able to commercialize any products, including CB001. If we must redesign our Selective Amplification process to use other reagents, we may need to demonstrate comparability in subsequent clinical trials or be required to repeat earlier clinical trials, which would be costly and time consuming. We may be required to pay substantial damages to a patent holder in an infringement case in the event of a finding of infringement. Under some circumstances in the United States, these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurred, and we could be ordered to pay the costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by the patent holder. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing, or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. Further, if patent infringement suits are brought against us, our collaborators or our licensors, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. In addition, payments under such licenses would reduce the earnings otherwise attributable to the related products. Patent infringement cases often involve substantial legal expenses. For example, we are involved in two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us by PharmaStem. As of December 31, 2005, we have incurred total legal expenses of approximately $7.1 million related to these cases. Depending upon the results of PharmaStem’s appeal of the District Court’s decision to overturn the jury verdict against us in this case, and the extent to which we are required to litigate the second lawsuit brought by PharmaStem and any related appeals, we estimate that we could incur at least an additional $1.0 million to $5.0 million in litigation expenses. In addition to the two PharmaStem patent infringement lawsuits we are contesting, we are aware that PharmaStem owns an additional patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,605,275, in the umbilical cord blood preservation field, which is the field in which we currently do business with our ViaCord product and potentially might relate to our CB001 product candidate, if approved and commercialized. This patent expires in 2010. We are 25 Table of Contents also aware of two patents relating to compositions of purified hematopoietic stem cells and their use in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, which could impact our stem cell therapeutics business. We believe, based on advice of our patent counsel, that we do not infringe any valid claims of this additional PharmaStem patent or of these two other patents. There is no assurance, however, that if we are sued on any of these patents we would prevail. Proving invalidity, in particular, is difficult since it requires a showing of clear and convincing evidence to overcome the presumption of validity enjoyed by issued patents. If we are found to infringe these patents and are not able to obtain a license, we may not be able to operate our business. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products by us based on similar technology and may also delay the regulatory approval process for future product candidates. Furthermore, we may suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any infringement action against us may harm our competitive position, be very costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Our success will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships and collaborations. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to technology and critical raw materials, to expand or complement our research, development or commercialization capabilities, or to reduce the cost of developing or commercializing products on our own. While we are continually in discussions with a number of companies, universities, research institutions, cord blood banks and others to establish additional relationships and collaborations, we may not reach definitive agreements with any of them. Even if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, or may have other terms that are burdensome to us, and may involve the acquisition of our securities. Our partners may decide to develop alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others. If any of our partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our technology and potential products may be substantially delayed. Our cell preservation activities are subject to regulations that may impose significant costs and restrictions on us. Cord blood preservation. The FDA has adopted GTP regulations that establish a comprehensive regulatory program for human cellular and tissue-based products. Our ViaCord product is subject to these GTP regulations. We have registered with the FDA as an umbilical cord blood preservation service, listed our products with the FDA, and we are subject to FDA inspection. We believe that we comply with the new GTP regulations as adopted, though we have not yet been inspected by the FDA. However, we may not be able to maintain this compliance or comply with future regulatory requirements that may be imposed on us, including product standards that may be developed. Moreover, the cost of compliance with government regulations may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Regulation of our cord blood preservation services in foreign jurisdictions is still evolving. Consistent with industry practice, the ViaCord collection kits have not been cleared as a medical device. The FDA could at any time require us to obtain PMA approval or 510(k) clearance for the collection kits, or new drug application supplement, or sNDA, approval for a drug component of the kits or file an IND/ BLA and seek approval for the cell product. Securing any necessary medical device 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for the cord blood collection kits, or sNDA approval for a drug component of the kits or BLA, may involve the submission of a substantial volume of data and may require a lengthy substantive review. The FDA also could require that we cease distributing the collection kits and require us to obtain medical device 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for the kits or sNDA approval of a drug component of the kits or BLA approval prior to further distribution of the kits on product use. 26 Table of Contents Of the states in which we provide cord blood banking services, only New Jersey, New York, Maryland, Kentucky, Illinois and Pennsylvania currently require that cord blood services be licensed, permitted or registered. We are currently licensed, permitted or registered to operate in all of these states. If other states adopt requirements for the licensing, permitting or registration of cord blood preservation services, we would have to obtain licenses, permits or registration to continue providing services in those states. Oocyte cryopreservation. There are no established precedents for U.S. and international regulation of oocyte cryopreservation. The FDA has informed us that it will require a clinical study to support approval of the technology used in oocyte cryopreservation. Even if such a study is conducted, we cannot assure you that the FDA will find the data sufficient to grant 510(k) clearance. If we conduct a clinical study and submit a new 510(k), and the FDA does not find the information adequate to support 510(k) clearance, we would need to obtain PMA approval. This requirement would substantially lengthen our planned developmental timeline and increase the costs of developing and commercializing this product candidate. We cannot assure you that this product candidate will receive either 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. We believe that the time to conduct a clinical study, prepare a new 510(k), and receive FDA clearance for our oocyte cryopreservation product candidate, will take several years. We have not investigated the regulations for the cryopreservation of oocytes in foreign jurisdictions. There is no assurance that we will ever be able to generate sufficient data to receive approval to market technology for the cryopreservation of oocytes. We have only limited experience manufacturing cell therapy product candidates, and we may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in quantities sufficient for clinical studies or for commercial scale. We currently produce limited quantities of stem cells using our Selective Amplification and USSC technologies. We have not built commercial scale manufacturing facilities, and have no experience in manufacturing cellular products in the volumes that will be required for later stage clinical studies or commercialization. If we successfully obtain marketing approval for any products, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products at an acceptable cost. Commercial-scale production of therapies made from live human cells involves production in small batches and management of complex logistics. Cellular therapies are inherently more difficult to manufacture at commercial-scale than chemical pharmaceuticals, which are manufactured using standardized production technologies and operational methods. We may encounter difficulties in production due to, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and component supply. These difficulties could reduce sales of our products, increase our cost or cause production delays, all of which could damage our reputation and hurt our profitability. We are dependent on our existing suppliers and establishing relationships with certain other suppliers for certain components of our product candidates. The loss of such suppliers or our inability to establish such relationships may delay development or limit our ability to manufacture our stem cell therapy products. In order to produce cells for use in clinical studies and produce stem cell products for commercial sale, certain biological components used in our production process will need to be manufactured in compliance with cGMP. To meet this requirement, we will need to maintain supply agreements with firms who manufacture these components to cGMP standards. Once we engage these third parties, we may be dependent on them for supply of cGMP grade components. If we are unable to obtain cGMP grade biological components for our product candidates, we may not be able to market our stem cell product candidates. Certain antibodies, growth factors and other reagents are critical components used in our stem cell production process. Our Selective Amplification process currently uses components sold to us by certain manufacturers, and we need to establish relationships with other suppliers to manufacture cGMP grade products for commercial sale. We are dependent on our suppliers for such components as SCF, Flt3-L, TPO mimetic and cGMP grade antibodies conjugated with magnetic particles. Some of these components are 27 Table of Contents currently supplied to us by Amgen, GlaxoSmithKline and Miltenyi Biotec, who are currently single-source suppliers. Other components, such as research grade materials that are suitable for production of stem cells used for research and in Phase 1 human clinical studies, are purchased as catalog products from vendors, such as StemCell Technologies and R&D Systems, with whom we do not have relationships. In order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize our Selective Amplification product candidates, we will need to establish relationships with some of these suppliers. In the event that our suppliers are unable or unwilling to produce such components on commercially reasonable terms, and we are unable to find substitute suppliers for such components, we may not be able to commercialize our stem cell product candidates. We depend on our suppliers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations. In the event that any of these suppliers becomes unwilling or unable to continue to supply necessary components for the manufacture of our stem cell products, we will need to repeat certain development work to identify and demonstrate the equivalence of alternative components purchased from other suppliers. If we are unable to demonstrate the equivalence of alternative components in a timely manner, or purchase these alternative components on commercially reasonable terms, development of our product candidates may be delayed and we may not be able to complete development of or market our stem cell product candidates. If our cord blood processing and storage facility or our clinical manufacturing facilities are damaged or destroyed, our business and prospects would be negatively affected. We process and store our customers’ umbilical cord blood at our facility in Hebron, Kentucky. If this facility or the equipment in the facility were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored cord blood units. Depending on the extent of loss, such an event could reduce our ability to provide cord blood stem cells when requested, could expose us to significant liability from our cord blood banking customers and could affect our ability to continue to provide umbilical cord blood banking services. We have a clinical manufacturing facility located in Worcester, Massachusetts that is capable of producing stem cells for Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials. We have built out a facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts that we intend to replace our Worcester facility and be capable of producing stem cells for Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials and initial commercialization. For the next several years, we expect to manufacture all of our stem cell product candidates in our new Cambridge facility. If this facility or the equipment in it is significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace our manufacturing capacity. In the event of a temporary or protracted loss of this facility or equipment, we may be able to transfer manufacturing to a third party, but the shift would likely be expensive, and the timing would depend on availability of third party resources and the speed with which we could have a new facility approved by the FDA. While we believe that we have insured against losses from damage to or destruction of our facilities consistent with typical industry practices, if we have underestimated our insurance needs, we will not have sufficient insurance to cover losses above and beyond the limits on our policies. Currently, we maintain insurance coverage totaling $21.9 million against damage to our property and equipment, and an additional $19.0 million to cover incremental expenses and loss of profits resulting from such damage. Our competitors may have greater resources or capabilities or better technologies than we have, or may succeed in developing better products or develop products more quickly than we do, and we may not be successful in competing with them. The private umbilical cord banking business is highly competitive. In private umbilical cord blood banking, we compete with companies such as Cbr Systems, Cryo-Cell International, Inc., CorCell, Inc. and LifeBank USA. Any of these companies may choose to invest more in sales, marketing, research and product development than we have. In cord blood banking, we also compete with public cord blood banks such as the New York Blood Center (National Cord Blood Program), University of Colorado Cord Blood Bank, Milan Cord Blood Bank, Düsseldorf Cord Blood Bank, and approximately 50 other cord blood banks around the world. Public cord blood banks provide families with the option of donating their cord blood for public use. 28 Table of Contents There is no cost to donate and, as public banks grow in size and increase in diversity, which is, for instance, the aim of the Stem Cell Therapeutic Act, the probability of finding suitably matched cells for a family member may increase, which may result in a decrease in demand for private cord blood banking. In addition, if the science of HLA typing advances, then unrelated cord blood transplantation may become safer and more efficacious, similarly reducing the clinical advantage of related cord blood transplantation. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology businesses are also highly competitive. We compete with many organizations that are developing cell therapies for the treatment of a variety of human diseases, including companies such as Aastrom Biosciences, Cellerant, Celgene, Gamida-Cell, Genzyme, Bioheart, and Osiris. We also face competition in the cell therapy field from academic institutions and governmental agencies. We are also aware that some larger pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies have programs in the cell therapy area. Some of these competitors, and future competitors, may have similar or better product candidates or technologies, greater financial and human resources than we have, including more experience in research and development and more established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. Specifically, Gamida-Cell, a private company based in Israel, is developing a hematopoietic stem cell therapy product candidate similar to CB001. This product has been evaluated in a Phase 1/2 trial. Enrollment for this trial was completed in August 2004. This product candidate, and potentially others, could have equal or better efficacy than CB001 or could potentially reach the market more quickly than CB001. In addition, public cord blood banks may, as a result of a recent legislative initiative, be able to better compete with our potential cell therapy products, such as CB001. The Stem Cell Therapeutic Act provides financing for a national system of public cord blood banks to encourage cord blood donations from an ethnically diverse population. An increase in the number and diversity of publicly-available cord blood units from public banks could diminish the necessity for cord blood-derived therapeutics produced with our Selective Amplification technology. In oocyte cryopreservation, if our ViaCyte product candidate is successfully developed and approved, we expect to compete with IVF centers, including Florida Institute for Reproductive Medicine, Stanford University, the Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine, and Egg Bank USA (through Advanced Fertility Clinic) and individual companies offering oocyte cryopreservation, including Extend Fertility. Current and future competitors in this field, too, may have greater financial and human resources than we have, and may have similar or better product candidates or technologies, or product candidates which are brought to the market more quickly than ours. Specifically, several IVF centers (including all of those mentioned here) are already performing oocyte cryopreservation on a limited basis and Extend Fertility is offering related services, which may make it more difficult for us to establish our product candidate or achieve a significant market share. We anticipate this competition to increase in the future as new companies enter the stem cell therapy, cord blood preservation and oocyte cryopreservation markets. In addition, the health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and new product introductions or other technological advancements could make some or all of our product candidates obsolete. Due to the nature of our cell preservation activities, harm to our reputation could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition, and damage to or loss of our customers’ property held in our custody could potentially result in significant legal liability. Our reputation among clients and the medical and birthing services community is extremely important to the commercial success of our ViaCord product. This is due in significant part to the nature of the product and service we provide. For instance, as part of our ViaCord product, we are assuming custodial care of a child’s umbilical cord blood tissue entrusted to us by the parents for potential future use as a therapeutic for the child or its siblings. We believe that our reputation enables us to market ourselves as a premium provider of cord blood preservation among our competitors. While we seek to maintain high standards in all aspects of our provision of products and services, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience problems. Like family cord blood banks generally, we face the risk that a customer’s cord blood unit could be lost or damaged while in transit from the collection site to our storage facility, including while the unit is in the possession of third party commercial carriers used to transport the units. There is also risk of loss or damage to the unit during the 29 Table of Contents preservation or storage process. Any such problems, particularly if publicized in the media or otherwise, could negatively impact our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and business prospects. In addition to reputational damage, we face the risk of legal liability for loss of or damage to cord blood units. We do not own the cord blood units banked by our ViaCord customers; instead, we act as custodian on behalf of the child-donor’s guardian. Thus loss or damage to the units would be loss or damage to the customer’s property, a potentially unique, and depending on the circumstances, perhaps irreplaceable potential therapeutic. Therefore, we cannot be sure to what extent we could be found liable, in any given scenario, for damages suffered by an owner or donor as a result of harm or loss of a cord blood unit. Since we began offering the ViaCord blood preservation product in 1994, two lawsuits have been filed against us, one regarding damage to a customer’s cord blood unit because of a delay in transport to our processing facility and the other regarding the total loss of the unit while in transit. Both cases were settled through mediation for amounts not material to our financial results or financial condition and were substantially covered by our insurance policies. However, we cannot assure you that any future cases could be resolved by payment of immaterial amounts for damages or that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover such damages. The manufacture and sale of products may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury. While we believe that our current liability insurance coverage is adequate for our present commercial activities, we will need to increase our insurance coverage if and when we begin commercializing stem cell therapy products. We may not be able to obtain insurance with adequate coverage for potential liability arising from any such potential products on acceptable terms or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain insurance or any claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. If we are not able to recruit and retain qualified management and other personnel, we may fail in developing our technologies and product candidates. Our success is highly dependent on the retention of the principal members of our scientific, management and sales personnel. Marc D. Beer, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is critical to our ability to execute our overall business strategy. Morey Kraus, our Chief Technology Officer and co-founder, is a co-inventor of our Selective Amplification technology and has significant and unique expertise in stem cell expansion and related technologies. We maintain key man life insurance on the lives of Marc D. Beer and Morey Kraus. Additionally, we have several other employees with scientific or other skills that we consider important to the successful development of our technology. Any of our key employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and, despite any non-competition agreement with us, work for one of our competitors. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified technical, commercial and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or achieve our business objectives. We may face difficulties in managing and maintaining the growth of our business. We expect to continue expanding our reproductive health business and our research and development activities. This expansion could put significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage future growth, we would need to hire, train and manage additional employees. Prior to completing our initial public offering in January 2005, we maintained a small finance and accounting staff because we were a private company. Our new reporting obligations as a public company, as 30 Table of Contents well as our need to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ National Market, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff, on our financial, accounting and information systems and on our internal controls. We have increased the number of our accounting and finance personnel and have taken steps to proactively monitor our networks and to improve our financial, accounting and information systems and internal controls in order to fulfill our responsibilities as a public company and to support growth in our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems procedures and controls will be adequate to support our anticipated growth or that management will be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals or to satisfy our reporting and other obligations as a public company. If we acquire other businesses or technologies the transactions may be dilutive and we may be unable to integrate them successfully with our business, our financial performance could suffer. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire other businesses. We have had limited experience in acquiring and integrating other businesses. Since our incorporation in 1994, we have acquired three businesses: ViaCord in 2000, Cerebrotec, Inc. in 2001 and Kourion Therapeutics AG in 2003. The integration process following any future acquisitions may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. Also, in any future acquisitions, we may issue shares of stock dilutive to existing stockholders, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities, or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets, any of which might harm our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Any financing we might need for future acquisitions may be available to us only on terms that restrict our business or impose costs that increase our net loss. The successful commercialization of our other potential cell therapy products will depend on obtaining reimbursement for use of this product candidate from third party payers. If we successfully develop and obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our therapeutic product candidates, we intend to sell such products initially in the United States and the European Union. In the United States, the market for many pharmaceutical products is affected by the availability of reimbursement from third party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies. Our potential cellular therapy products may be relatively expensive treatments due to the higher cost of production and more complex logistics of cellular products compared with standard pharmaceuticals; this, in turn, may make it more difficult for us to obtain adequate reimbursement from third party payers, particularly if we cannot demonstrate a favorable cost-benefit relationship. Third-party payers may also deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement for our potential products if they determine that the product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA or other government regulators or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. In the countries of the European Union and in some other countries, the pricing of prescription pharmaceutical products and services and the level of government reimbursement are subject to governmental control. Managing and reducing health care costs has been a concern generally of federal and state governments in the United States and of foreign governments. Although we do not believe that any recently enacted or presently proposed legislation should impact our business, we cannot be sure that we will not be subject to future regulations that may materially restrict the price we receive for our products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we may develop in the future. In addition, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, and any of our potential products may ultimately not be considered cost-effective by these payers. Any of these initiatives or developments could materially harm our business. Although we are aware of a small fraction of ViaCord customers receiving reimbursement, we believe our ViaCord cord blood preservation product, like other private cord blood banking, is not generally subject to 31 Table of Contents reimbursement. However, if our potential cell therapy products are not reimbursed by the government or third party insurers, the market for those products would be limited. We cannot be sure that third party payers will reimburse sales of a product or enable us or our partners to sell the product at prices that will provide a sustainable and profitable revenue stream. We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research collaborators or from providers who enroll patients and collect cord blood or human oocytes. Our business relies on the acquisition, analysis, and storage of potentially sensitive information about individuals’ health, both in our research activities and in our reproductive health product and service offerings. These data are protected by numerous federal and state privacy laws. Most health care providers, including research collaborators from whom we obtain patient information, are subject to privacy regulations promulgated under HIPAA. Although we ourselves are not directly regulated by HIPAA Privacy Rule, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider who has not satisfied HIPAA’s disclosure standards. In addition, certain state privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of individuals’ health information. Moreover, patients about whom we obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. Claims that we have violated individuals’ privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our products and product candidates, thereby reducing demand for our products and product candidates. The use of embryonic stem cells for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Although we do not currently use embryonic stem cells as a source for our research programs, the use of other types of human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of stem cell therapy, in general, for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur in the future also may result in greater governmental regulation of our product candidates and potential regulatory delays relating to the testing or approval of our product candidates. In the event that our research becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials that could expose us to environmental and other liability. We have facilities in Massachusetts, Kentucky, and Singapore that are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro-organisms and various radioactive compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the United States, these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these regulations, we cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury to employees and third parties from these materials will not occur. We do not have insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances other than limited clean-up expense coverage for environmental contamination due to an otherwise insured peril, such as fire. 32 Table of Contents Volatility of Our Stock Price The market price for our common stock is highly volatile, and likely will continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including: • material public announcements; • the data, positive or negative, generated from the development of our product candidates; • setbacks or delays in any of our development programs; • the outcome of material litigation; • the financial results achieved by our cord blood preservation business; • the impact of competition; • unusual or unexpectedly high expenses; • developments related to patents and other proprietary rights; • market trends affecting stock prices in our industry; and • economic or other external factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 