Item 1A. Risk Factors There are several factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. Some of these factors, and their impact on the success of our operations and our ability to achieve our goals, are discussed below. Supplier Risks Many of our products utilize raw materials or components that are either single or sole sourced. These sources of supply could encounter manufacturing difficulties or may unilaterally decide to stop supplying us because of product liability concerns or other factors. We currently rely on single source suppliers for the silicone and fabric used in our male prostheses and for the porcine dermis and mesh used in many of our female products. Furthermore, we use single sources for the TherMatrx consoles and disposables. A key component of the InhibiZone antibiotic technology is procured from a single source. We mitigate these risks through appropriate inventory levels, defining alternative sources and comprehensive supplier management. The loss of any of these suppliers could have a materially adverse effect on our financial results in the near term, as we would be required to qualify alternate designs or sources. Potential Product Recalls In the event that any of our products were defective, we could voluntarily recall, or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) or an international regulatory body could require us to redesign or recall, any defective product. There is a possibility that we may recall products in the future and that future recalls could result in significant costs to us and in significant negative publicity which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Continued Physician Use and Endorsement of our Products For us to sell our products, physicians must recommend and endorse them. We may not obtain the necessary recommendations or endorsements from physicians. Many of the products we acquired or are developing are based on new treatment methods. Acceptance of our products is dependent on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, clinical efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to competitive products, and on training physicians in the proper application of our products. We believe our products address major market opportunities, but if we are unsuccessful in marketing them, our sales and earnings could be below expectations. Successful Introduction of New Products and Product Improvements As part of our growth strategy, we intend to introduce a number of new products and product improvements. If we do not introduce these new products and product improvements on schedule, or they are not well accepted by the market, our growth may be reduced. Continued Use of Non-Invasive Treatment Alternatives We predominantly sell devices and kits for invasive or minimally invasive surgical procedures. If patients do not accept our products, our sales may decline. Patient acceptance of our products depends on a number of factors, including the failure of non-invasive therapies, the degree of invasiveness involved in the procedures using our products, the rate and severity of complications, and other adverse side effects from the procedures using our products. Patients are more likely to first consider non-invasive alternatives to treat their urological disorders. The introduction of new oral medications or other less-invasive therapies could cause our sales to decline. 8 Table of Contents Actions Related to Reimbursement for Procedures Using our Products Our physician and hospital customers depend on third party government and non-government entities for reimbursement for services provided to patients. The level of such third party reimbursement may influence whether or not customers purchase our products. Effective January 1, 2004, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) increased reimbursement for certain procedures utilizing inflatable penile prostheses and urinary sphincter devices. This increase partially reversed reductions in such reimbursement rates in 2001 and 2002. Our sales history in the U.S. of these devices does not evidence an obvious correlation with changes in CMS reimbursement rates. The first quarter of 2004, the American Medical Association approved a CPT code for our Her Option cryoablation system to treat excessive uterine bleeding in the physician’s office, which was the first step toward the availability of standard reimbursement for Her Option. In January 2005, CMS published the relative value units to be applied to this therapy, resulting in a national average Medicare allowable payment of $2,602 effective as of January 1, 2005. We do not expect a noticeable effect on sales of Her Option until this data has been incorporated into the reimbursement systems of the individual commercial payers across the country. We can offer no assurances as to the timing or effectiveness the new code and reimbursement level for Her Option procedures will have on the acceptance and practice of this in-office therapy. Regulatory Approvals and Clinical Results Regulatory authorities around the world dictate different levels of manufacturing and design information and/or clinical data for various products in order to ensure their safety and efficacy. In the event the data submitted is deemed inadequate or the clinical study results do not support approval, a product may either not be fit for commercialization or may require a redesign. Intellectual Property Lawsuits The medical device industry is litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to gain a competitive advantage. In the future, we may become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, would draw upon our financial resources and divert the time and efforts of our management. If we lose one of these proceedings, a court, or a similar foreign governing body, could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our products, or prevent us from manufacturing, using or selling our products. In addition to being costly, protracted litigation to defend or prosecute our intellectual property rights could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until resolution of the litigation. Product Liability Lawsuits The manufacture and sale of medical devices exposes us to significant risk of product liability claims. In the past, we have had a number of product liability claims relating to our products. In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims, some of which may have a negative impact on our business. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. We are not currently involved in any material product liability litigation. Costs of Physician Malpractice Insurance Most of our products are used by physicians who are required to maintain certain levels of medical malpractice insurance to maintain their hospital privileges. As the cost of this insurance increases, certain physicians who have used our products to treat their patients may stop performing surgeries. Unless these patients who would have been treated by these physicians are referred to other physicians, sales of our products will decline. 9 Table of Contents Acquisition Integration We have acquired businesses in the past, and we may acquire other businesses in the future. Failure to successfully retain critical employees of an acquired company, failure to gain FDA approval for the products of an acquired company, or the inability to establish and maintain appropriate communications, performance expectations, regulatory compliance procedures, accounting controls, and reporting procedures could have a materially adverse affect on our business. We have integrated TherMatrx into our Minnetonka, Minnesota operations and have obtained FDA approval to transfer the manufacture of certain TherMatrx components to our Minnetonka location. International Sales During the fiscal 2004, approximately 20.9 percent of our sales were to customers outside the United States. Some of these sales were to governmental entities and other organizations with extended payment terms. A number of factors, including political or economic instability in the countries where we do business, could affect payment terms and our ability to collect foreign receivables. We have little influence over these factors and changes could have a materially adverse impact on our business. In addition, foreign sales are influenced by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, mainly in the euro. In recent periods, our sales have been positively impacted by increases in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Decreases in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar would negatively impact our sales. Manufacturing Facility We are currently operating with one manufacturing shift and have adequate physical capacity to serve our business operations for the foreseeable future. We do not have a back up facility, and the loss of our Minnetonka facility would have a materially adverse effect on our sales, earnings, and financial condition. Ongoing Compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 During fiscal 2004, we expended significant resources to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management has concluded the internal controls over financial reporting are adequate and contain no material weaknesses. Furthermore, our 2004 year-end audit resulted in our external auditors’ ability to attest to our satisfactory assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting with no material weaknesses to report. We realize the requirements of this Act must now be maintained quarterly and are likely to evolve as the result of a reassessment of the Act’s initial implementation. Failure to respond to changes in the requirements of the Act or our inability to comply regularly with the Act’s requirements could have a materially adverse affect on our business as represented by investor confidence and possible fluctuation in our stock price. Expensing of Stock Options as Required by SFAS 123(R) In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standard board issued SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, pursuant to which all stock-based compensation awards must be measured and expensed in consolidated financial statements beginning for us with our third fiscal quarter of 2005. Though we have been including footnote disclosure of the impact of the expense that would be recorded under SFAS No. 123 to our earnings and earnings per share in our regularly published SEC filings, the impact of this change to our stock price, and to those throughout the market, is uncertain at this time. 