ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this report or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. 14 Risks Related To Our Business We depend heavily on a limited number of customers, and if we lose any of them or they reduce their business with us, we would lose a substantial portion of our revenues. A substantial portion of our business is conducted with a limited number of customers, including Biotronik, Boston Scientific, Medtronic, the Sorin Group and St. Jude Medical. In 2006, Boston Scientific, Medtronic and St. Jude Medical collectively accounted for approximately 67% of our revenues. Our supply agreements with these customers might not be renewed. Furthermore, many of our supply agreements do not contain minimum purchase level requirements and therefore there is no guaranteed source of revenue that we can depend upon under these agreements. The loss of any large customer or a reduction of business with that customer for any reason would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not respond to changes in technology, our products may become obsolete and we may experience a loss of customers and lower revenues. We sell our products to customers in several industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products and enhancements, our products and services will likely become technologically obsolete over time and we may lose a significant number of our customers. In addition, other new products introduced by our customers may require fewer of our batteries or components. We dedicate a significant amount of resources to the development of our products and technologies and we would be harmed if we did not meet customer requirements and expectations. Our inability, for technological or other reasons, to successfully develop and introduce new and innovative products could result in a loss of customers and lower revenues. If we are unable to successfully market our current or future products, our business will be harmed and our revenues and operating results will be reduced. The market for our medical products has been growing in recent years. If the market for our products does not grow as rapidly as forecasted by industry experts, our revenues could be less than expected. In addition, it is difficult to predict the rate at which the market for our products will grow or at which new and increased competition will result in market saturation. Slower growth in the pacemaker, ICD and CRT markets in particular would negatively impact our revenues. In addition, we face the risk that our products will lose widespread market acceptance. Our customers may not continue to utilize the products we offer and a market may not develop for our future products. We may at times determine that it is not technically or economically feasible for us to continue to manufacture certain products and we may not be successful in developing or marketing them. Additionally, new technologies that we develop may not be rapidly accepted because of industry-specific factors, including the need for regulatory clearance, entrenched patterns of clinical practice and uncertainty over third party reimbursement. If this occurs, our business will be harmed and our revenues and operating results will be negatively affected. 15 We are subject to pricing pressures from customers, which could harm operating results. We have made price reductions to some of our large customers in recent years and we expect customer pressure for pricing reductions will continue. Price concessions or reductions may cause our operating results to suffer. In addition, any delay or failure by a large customer to make payments due to us would harm our operating results and financial condition. We rely on third party suppliers for raw materials, key products and subcomponents and if we are unable to obtain these materials, products and subcomponents on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, our ability to manufacture products will suffer. Our business depends on a continuous supply of raw materials. The principal raw materials used in our business include lithium, iodine, tantalum, platinum, ruthenium, gallium trichloride, tantalum pellets, vanadium pentoxide, iridium, and titanium. Raw materials needed for our business are susceptible to fluctuations due to transportation, government regulations, price controls, economic climate or other unforeseen circumstances. Increasing global demand for some of the raw materials we need for our business, including platinum, iridium, gallium trichloride, tantalum and titanium, has caused the prices of these materials to increase significantly. In addition, there are a limited number of worldwide suppliers of several raw materials needed to manufacture our products, including lithium, gallium trichloride, carbon monofluoride, and tantalum. We may not be able to continue to procure raw materials critical to our business or to procure them at acceptable price levels. We rely on third party manufacturers to supply many of our raw materials. Manufacturing problems may occur with these and other outside sources, as a supplier may fail to develop and supply products and subcomponents to us on a timely basis, or may supply us with products and subcomponents that do not meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements. If any of these problems occur, we may be unable to obtain substitute sources for these products and subcomponents on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, which could harm our ability to manufacture our own products and components profitably or on time. In addition, to the extent the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture products and subcomponents are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable subcomponents from alternative suppliers. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of our total assets. At December 29, 2006, we had $211.4 million of intangible assets, representing 39% of our total assets. These intangible assets consist primarily of goodwill, trademarks, tradenames and patented technology arising from our acquisitions. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized, but are tested annually or upon the occurrence of certain events that indicate that the assets may be impaired. We may not receive the recorded value for our intangible assets if we sell or liquidate our business or assets. In addition, the material concentration of intangible assets increases the risk of a large charge to earnings in the event that the recoverability of these intangible assets is impaired, and in the event of such a charge to earnings, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, intangible assets with definite lives, which represent $28.1 million of our net intangible assets at December 29, 2006, will continue to be amortized. We incurred total amortization expenses relating to these intangible assets of $3.8 million in 2006. These expenses will reduce our future earnings or increase our future losses. 16 Quality problems with our products could harm our reputation for producing high quality products, erode our competitive advantage and result in claims against us. Our products are held to high quality and performance standards. In the event that our products fail to meet these standards, our reputation for producing high quality products could be harmed, which would damage our competitive advantage and could result in lower revenues. Product quality or performance issues may also result in product liability or other legal claims against us, which could harm our operating results or financial condition. Quality problems with our products could result in warranty claims and additional costs. We allow customers to return defective or damaged products for credit, replacement, or exchange. We generally warrant that our products will meet customer specifications and will be free from defects in materials and workmanship. Additionally, we carry a safety stock of inventory for our customers which may be impacted by warranty claims. We accrue for our exposure to warranty claims based upon recent historical experience and other specific information as it becomes available. However, such reserves may not be adequate to cover future warranty claims and additional warranty costs and/or inventory write-offs may be incurred which could harm our operating results or financial condition. If we become subject to product liability claims, our operating results and financial condition could suffer. The manufacturing and sale of our products expose us to potential product liability claims and product recalls, including those that may arise from failure to meet product specifications, misuse or malfunction of, or design flaws in our products, or use of our products with components or systems not manufactured or sold by us. Many of our products are components and function in interaction with our customers' medical devices. For example, our batteries are produced to meet various electrical performance, longevity and other specifications, but the actual performance of those products is dependent on how they are in fact utilized as part of the customers' devices over the lifetime of the products. Product performance and device interaction from time to time have been, and may in the future be, different than expected for a number of reasons. Consequently, it is possible that customers may experience problems with their medical devices that could require device recall or other corrective action, where our batteries met the specification at delivery, and for reasons that are not related primarily or at all to any failure by our product to perform in accordance with specifications. It is possible that our customers (or end-users) may in the future assert that our products caused or contributed to device failure where our product was not the primary cause of the device performance issue. Even if these assertions do not lead to product liability or contract claims, they could harm our reputation and our customer relationships. Provisions contained in our agreements with key customers attempting to limit our damages, including provisions to limit damages to liability for gross negligence, may not be enforceable in all instances or may otherwise fail to protect us from liability for damages. Product liability claims or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or require us to pay significant damages. The occurrence of product liability claims or product recalls could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 17 We carry product liability insurance coverage that is limited in scope and amount. We may not be able to maintain this insurance or to do so at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms. This insurance may not be adequate to protect us against a product liability claim that arises in the future. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may make it difficult to forecast our future performance and may result in volatility in our stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to the following: o the fixed nature of a substantial percentage of our costs, which results in our operations being particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenue; o changes in the relative portion of our revenue represented by our various products and customers, which could result in reductions in our profits if the relative portion of our revenue represented by lower margin products increases; o timing of orders placed by our principal customers who account for a significant portion of our revenues; and o increased costs of raw materials or supplies. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on a combination of patents, licenses, trade secrets and know-how to establish and protect our proprietary rights to our technologies and products. As of December 29, 2006, we held 329 active U.S. patents. However, the steps we have taken or will take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property. In addition to seeking formal patent protection whenever possible, we attempt to protect our proprietary rights and trade secrets by entering into confidentiality and non-compete agreements with employees, consultants and third parties with which we do business. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us and we may be unable to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive advantages. If third parties infringe or misappropriate our patents or other proprietary rights, our business could be seriously harmed. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to detect infringement of these rights and may lose our competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property rights before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies that do not infringe on our proprietary rights. 18 We may be subject to intellectual property claims, which could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management from our business operations. In producing our batteries and other components for IMDs, third parties may claim that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights, and we may be found to have infringed those intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may be used in our technology and products. In addition, third parties may claim that our patents have been improperly granted and may seek to invalidate our existing or future patents. If any claim for invalidation prevailed, the result could be greatly expanded opportunities for third parties to manufacture and sell products that compete with our products and our revenues from any related license agreements would decrease accordingly. We also typically do not receive significant indemnification from parties which license technology to us against third party claims of intellectual property infringement. Any litigation or other challenges regarding our patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved in producing our power sources and other components for IMDs, and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increases these risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may not be able to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of our products. Infringement claims, even if not substantiated, could result in significant legal and other costs and may be a distraction to management. We are dependent upon our senior management team and key personnel and the loss of any of them could significantly harm us. Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. Our products are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop our products. The loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers and companies operating in our industry. To the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company and to develop our products and technology. We may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms. We may not be able to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees to maintain and grow our business. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled employees and management. There is currently aggressive competition for employees who have experience in technology and engineering. We compete intensely with other companies to recruit and hire from this limited pool. The industries in which we compete for employees are characterized by high levels of employee attrition. Although we believe we offer competitive salaries and benefits, we may have to increase spending in order to attract, train and retain personnel. 19 We may make acquisitions that could subject us to a number of operational risks and we may not be successful in integrating companies we acquire into our existing operations. We have made and expect to make in the future acquisitions that complement our core competencies in technology and manufacturing to enable us to manufacture and sell additional products to our existing customers and to expand our business into related markets. Implementation of our acquisition strategy entails a number of risks, including: o inaccurate assessments of potential liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; o the existence of unknown and/or undisclosed liabilities associated with the acquired businesses; o diversion of our management's attention from our core businesses; o potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; o difficulties in integrating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected revenue growth, efficiencies and cost savings; and o increases in our indebtedness and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. If we are not successful in making acquisitions to expand and develop our business, our operating results may suffer. A component of our strategy is to make acquisitions that complement our core competencies in technology and manufacturing to enable us to manufacture and sell additional products to our existing customers and to expand our business into related markets. Our continued growth will depend on our ability to identify and acquire companies that complement or enhance our business on acceptable terms. We may not be able to identify or complete future acquisitions. Some of the risks that we may encounter include expenses associated with and difficulties in identifying potential targets, the costs associated with unsuccessful acquisitions, and higher prices for acquired companies because of competition for attractive acquisition targets. Our failure to acquire additional companies could cause our operating results to suffer. We may face competition from our principal medical customers that could harm our business and we may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established companies with greater resources. Competition in connection with the manufacturing of our products may intensify in the future. One or more of our customers may undertake additional vertical integration initiatives and begin to manufacture some or all of their components that we currently supply them which could cause our operating results to suffer. The market for commercial power sources is competitive, fragmented and subject to rapid technological change. Many other commercial power source suppliers are larger and have greater financial, operational, personnel, sales, technical and marketing resources than our company. These and other companies may develop products that are superior to ours, which could result in lower revenues and operating results. 20 Accidents at one of our facilities could delay production and adversely affect our operations. Our business involves complex manufacturing processes and hazardous materials that can be dangerous to our employees. Although we employ safety procedures in the design and operation of our facilities, there is a risk that an accident or death could occur in one of our facilities. Any accident, such as a chemical spill, could result in significant manufacturing delays or claims for damages resulting from injuries, which would harm our operations and financial condition. The potential liability resulting from any such accident or death, to the extent not covered by insurance, could cause our business to suffer. Any disruption of operations at any of our facilities could harm our business. We intend to expand into new markets and our proposed expansion plans may not be successful, which could harm our operating results. We intend to expand into new markets through the development of new product applications based on our existing component technologies. These efforts have required, and will continue to require us to make substantial investments, including significant research, development and engineering expenditures and capital expenditures for new, expanded or improved manufacturing facilities. We may not be able to successfully manage expansion into new markets and products and these efforts may harm our operating results. Specific risks in connection with expanding into new markets include the inability to transfer our quality standards into new products, the failure of customers in new markets to accept our products, and competition. Our failure to obtain licenses from third parties for new technologies or the loss of these licenses could impair our ability to design and manufacture new products and reduce our revenues. We occasionally license technologies from third parties rather than depending exclusively on our own proprietary technology and developments. For example, we license a capacitor patent from another company. Our ability to license new technologies from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer new and improved products. We may not be able to continue to identify new technologies developed by others and even if we are able to identify new technologies, we may not be able to negotiate licenses on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, we could lose rights granted under licenses for reasons beyond our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent. 21 Our international operations and sales are subject to a variety of risks and costs that could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. Our sales to countries outside the U.S., which accounted for 49% of net sales for the year ended December 29, 2006, and our Tijuana, Mexico operations are subject to certain foreign country risks. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and potential costs, including: o changes in foreign medical reimbursement programs and policies; o changes in foreign regulatory requirements; o local product preferences and product requirements; o longer-term receivables than are typical in the U.S.; o less protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the U.S.; o trade protection measures and import and export licensing requirements; o work force instability; o political and economic instability; and o complex tax and cash management issues. Our sales to countries outside of the U.S. are primarily to customers whose corporate offices are located and headquartered in the U.S. All supply contracts to customers outside the U.S. are denominated in U.S. dollars. We incur certain expenses related to our Tijuana operations that are denominated in a foreign currency. Historically, foreign currency fluctuations have not had a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could have a significant negative impact on our profitability and operating results if the volume of transactions denominated in foreign currencies increases. Risks Related To Our Industries The healthcare industry is subject to various political, economic and regulatory changes that could force us to modify how we develop and price our products. The healthcare industry is highly regulated and is influenced by changing political, economic and regulatory factors. Several of our product lines are subject to international, federal, state and local health and safety, packaging and product content regulations. In addition, IMDs produced by our medical customers are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and similar governmental agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. Compliance with these regulations may be time consuming, burdensome and expensive and could negatively affect our customers' abilities to sell their products, which in turn would adversely affect our ability to sell our products. This may result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenues. These regulations are also complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state levels. In addition, these regulations may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or remedy past violations of these regulations. Any failure by our company to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of portions or all of our operations, impositions of fines and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. 22 Our business is subject to environmental regulations that could be costly for our company to comply with. Federal, state and local regulations impose various environmental controls on the manufacturing, transportation, storage, use and disposal of batteries and hazardous chemicals and other materials used in, and hazardous waste produced by, the manufacturing of power sources and components. Conditions relating to our historical operations may require expenditures for clean-up in the future and changes in environmental laws and regulations may impose costly compliance requirements on us or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. Additional or modified regulations relating to the manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials used to manufacture our batteries and components or restricting disposal of batteries may be imposed. In addition, we cannot predict the effect that additional or modified regulations may have on us or our customers. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could result in greater competition and reduce our IMC revenues and harm our business. Many healthcare industry companies are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide products and services to industry participants will become more intense. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price concessions or reductions for our products. If we are forced to reduce our prices because of consolidation in the healthcare industry, our revenues would decrease and our operating results would suffer. Our IMC business is indirectly subject to healthcare industry cost containment measures that could result in reduced sales of our products. Our healthcare customers rely on third party payors, such as government programs and private health insurance plans, to reimburse some or all of the cost of the procedures in which our products are used. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce those costs could lead to patients being unable to obtain approval for payment from these third party payors. If that occurred, sales of IMDs may decline significantly, and our customers may reduce or eliminate purchases of our products. The cost containment measures that healthcare providers are instituting, both in the U.S. and internationally, could reduce our revenues and harm our operating results. Our ECP revenues are dependent on conditions in the oil and natural gas industry, which historically have been volatile. Sales of our commercial products depend to a great extent upon the condition of the oil and gas industry and, specifically, the exploration and production expenditures of oil and gas companies, which comprise approximately 10% of sales. In the past, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and the oil and gas exploration and production industry has been cyclical, and it is likely that oil and natural gas prices will continue to fluctuate in the future. The current and anticipated prices of oil and natural gas influence the oil and gas exploration and production business and are affected by a variety of political and economic factors beyond our control, including worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas, the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ("OPEC") to set and maintain production levels and pricing, the level of production of non-OPEC countries, the price and availability of alternative fuels, political stability in oil producing regions and the policies of the various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves. An adverse change in the oil and gas exploration and production industry or a reduction in the exploration and production expenditures of oil and gas companies could cause our revenues from commercial products to suffer. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 