ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition and/or operating results could be materially harmed. These factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our business We have a limited operating history and have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies. In addition, we have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $439.3 million. As we continue our research and development and pre-commercial efforts, we will incur increasing losses. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidate, Zerenex (ferric citrate coordination complex). We have not yet commercialized any drug candidate and cannot be sure that we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize Zerenex, or a future drug candidate, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidate, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations and successfully manufacture and commercialize our drug candidate. Risks associated with our product development efforts If we do not receive regulatory approvals to market our product candidate in a timely manner, or at all, our business will be materially harmed and our stock price may be adversely affected. We are developing Zerenex (ferric citrate coordination complex), an oral, ferric iron-based compound that has the capacity to bind to phosphate and form non-absorbable complexes. We have completed a U.S.-based Phase 3 clinical program for Zerenex for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia (elevated phosphate levels) in patients with chronic kidney disease, or CKD, on dialysis, conducted pursuant to a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, agreement with the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and the Company’s New Drug Application, or NDA, was submitted to the FDA for review in August 2013. On October 7, 2013, the FDA accepted for review the NDA that we submitted for Zerenex. We subsequently received the Filing Review Notification, also referred to as the Day 74 letter, which designated a standard 10-month review timeline and a FDA Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, goal date of June 7, 2014, which is the date by which the FDA intends to complete its review and issue a determination. The FDA is not bound by, and has in the past missed, its PDUFA goals, and it is unknown whether the review of our NDA filing for Zerenex will be completed within the FDA review goal or will be delayed. In May 2011, we announced positive Scientific Advice from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for the development of Zerenex for the management and control of serum phosphorus in CKD patients undergoing dialysis, and in non-dialysis dependent CKD patients. The Scientific Advice from the EMA indicates that our successful Phase 3 program in dialysis in the U.S., in conjunction with safety data generated from other clinical studies with Zerenex, will be considered sufficient to support a European marketing authorization application, or MAA, to the EMA for the indication in CKD patients on dialysis. The Scientific Advice also provided us with a regulatory path forward in the non-dialysis dependent CKD setting in Europe. As a result, we believe that since our Phase 3 program in dialysis, and Phase 2 study in non-dialysis dependent CKD, in the U.S. were successful, we will not need to conduct any additional clinical trials to assess the safety or efficacy of Zerenex in order to obtain European approval in CKD, including the dialysis and non-dialysis dependent CKD settings. Accordingly, in March 2014, we submitted a MAA with the EMA for both dialysis and NDD-CKD. Scientific Advice is legally non-binding and is based on the current scientific knowledge, which may be subject to future changes. Many companies which have been provided with positive Scientific Advice by the EMA have ultimately failed to obtain approval of an MAA for their drugs. Additionally, even if the primary endpoint in a Phase 3, or other pivotal, clinical trial is achieved, the Scientific Advice does not guarantee approval. The EMA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power and analyses, patient completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision, which may delay or prevent EMA approval of Zerenex. 19 Table of Contents Obtaining approval of a NDA and MAA by the FDA and EMA, respectively, is highly uncertain and like many product candidates, we may fail to obtain the respective approvals even though our NDA for Zerenex has been filed and accepted for review by the FDA. The NDA and MAA review processes are extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and the FDA and/or EMA may delay, limit or deny approval of Zerenex for many reasons, including: • we may not be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the respective regulatory authority that Zerenex is safe and effective for any indication; • the data arising from the clinical trials, including the Phase 3 results for dialysis patients and our recent Phase 2 results for non-dialysis dependent CKD, the development program or the NDA and/or MAA for Zerenex may not be satisfactory to the FDA and/or EMA; • the respective regulatory authority may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials or conclude that the data fails to meet statistical or clinical significance; • the respective regulatory authority may not find the data from preclinical and clinical studies sufficient to demonstrate that Zerenex’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; • the respective regulatory authority may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials, and may reject conclusions from preclinical studies or clinical trials, or determine that primary or secondary endpoints from clinical trials were not met, or reject safety conclusions from such studies; • the respective regulatory authority may not accept data generated at one or more of our clinical trial sites; • the respective regulatory authority may determine that we did not properly oversee our clinical trials or follow the regulatory authority’s advice or recommendations in conducting our clinical trials; • an advisory committee, if convened by the respective regulatory authority, may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the respective regulatory authority require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions, or even if an advisory committee, if convened, makes a favorable recommendation, the respective regulatory authority may still not approve Zerenex; and • the respective regulatory authority may identify deficiencies in the chemistry, manufacturing and controls, or CMC, sections of our NDA, our manufacturing processes, facilities or analytical methods or those of our third party contract manufacturers, and this may lead to significant delays in the approval of Zerenex or to the rejection of the Zerenex NDA. Additionally, our March 2014 MAA submission to the EMA was our first MAA filing in Europe. The EMA’s review of our MAA submission has not yet commenced and we can provide no assurance that our MAA submission will be accepted for review by the EMA. In addition, during the regulatory review process, regulatory agencies will typically ask questions of drug sponsors. To date, in the NDA review process by the FDA, we have endeavored to answer all such questions in a timely and complete fashion; however, we cannot assure you that our answers to such questions were, and will continue to be, complete and to the satisfaction of the FDA. If certain questions asked by the FDA have not been fully and satisfactorily answered by us, our target PDUFA date may be delayed or our NDA filing may be rejected. We have conducted two Phase 3 clinical trials initiated in May 2010 and September 2010 for Zerenex as a treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with end-stage renal disease pursuant to a SPA agreement with the FDA. Many companies which have been granted SPAs have ultimately failed to obtain final approval to market their drugs. Since we are seeking approval for Zerenex under a SPA, based on protocol designs negotiated with, and agreed to by, the FDA, we may be subject to enhanced scrutiny. Regardless of the success of our Phase 3 clinical trials, a SPA does not guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power and analyses, patient completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an outside advisory committee prior to making its final decision. Additionally, the regulatory approval of new therapies, and other clinical trial results from potential competitors in our proposed indication, could invalidate our SPA agreement, or require us to conduct additional, expensive clinical trials in order to obtain regulatory approval. Accordingly, we may not receive the regulatory approvals needed to market Zerenex. Any failure or delay in completion of the development program or the FDA and/or EMA review processes would delay or foreclose commercialization of Zerenex and severely harm our business and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete our clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze 20 Table of Contents the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are currently conducting or planning clinical trials that seek to enroll patients with the same disease that we are studying. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials in a cost-effective or timely manner or at all. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity and risk. As a result, we may be subject to events affecting countries outside the U.S. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we conduct or unanticipated adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. For example, in May 2012, we abandoned our development efforts and terminated our license for KRX-0401 (perifosine) following negative results from the Phase 3 trial. We may also opt to change the delivery method, formulation or dosage which could affect efficacy results for the drug candidate. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete our current or future clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. If our drug candidate does not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidate, Zerenex. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any drug candidate. We may need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we receive product approvals with the FDA, EMA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product. It requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA, EMA or a regulatory authority of another country, as applicable, may pose additional questions or request further toxicological, drug-drug interaction, pre-clinical or clinical data or substantiation. For example, while ferric citrate is a Generally Recognized as Safe, or GRAS, substance in the U.S., and the FDA and EMA have not requested us to conduct a two-year carcinogenicity study in animals, there is no assurance that the FDA, EMA or some other regulatory authority will not ask us to conduct such a study in order to obtain regulatory approval. In addition, the FDA and EMA have not requested us to conduct reproductive toxicity, genotoxicity and single-dose toxicity studies and we are referencing such studies from the published scientific literature in our regulatory submissions. However, we can provide no assurance that the FDA or EMA will not ask us to conduct additional studies. Similarly, while the results of drug-drug interaction studies conducted in vitro have been submitted in the NDA and the MAA, we are currently in the process of conducting additional in-vitro drug-drug interaction studies as requested by the FDA during the NDA review process, which need to be completed prior to the target PDUFA date. While we believe that we will be able to complete these in-vitro studies, as requested, prior to the target PDUFA date, we cannot assure you that such studies will be completed to the satisfaction of the FDA, which could extend the target PDUFA date. In addition, while no requests have been made by the FDA or EMA for in-vivo (human) drug-drug interaction studies, we cannot assure you that the FDA or EMA will not request such studies in the future. Consequently, it may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidate and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Negative, inconclusive, or insufficient results or medical events during a pre-clinical or clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. Furthermore, interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be obtained in later studies. Safety signals detected during clinical studies and pre-clinical animal studies, such as the gastrointestinal bleeding and liver toxicities that have been seen in some high-dose, ferric citrate canine studies, may require us to perform additional safety studies or analyses, which could delay the development of the drug or lead to a decision to discontinue development of the drug. We have submitted to the FDA data from our short-term and long-term rat and canine pre-clinical studies for Zerenex. While the FDA has reviewed the data from these studies and we have conducted our Phase 3 clinical program for CKD patients on dialysis, and Phase 2 study in non-dialysis dependent CKD patients, we can provide no assurance that the FDA will not raise any safety concerns in the future from these studies. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired traits of safety and efficacy despite positive results in earlier clinical testing. Moreover, the risk remains that the safety and efficacy data from our pivotal Phase 3 program for dialysis dependent CKD patients may be insufficiently persuasive for the approval of the drug, or may raise safety concerns that may prevent approval of the drug, for the indication sought. The risk also remains that a clinical program conducted by one of our partners may raise efficacy or safety concerns that may prevent approval of the drug. In addition, qualitative, quantitative and statistical interpretation of any of the prior pre-clinical and clinical safety and efficacy data of our drug candidate may be viewed as flawed by the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory agency. In addition, there can be no assurance that safety and/or efficacy concerns from the prior data were not overlooked or misinterpreted by us or our consultants, which in subsequent, larger studies might appear and prevent approval of such drug candidate. In addition, top-line results reported on completed clinical trials are based on a preliminary analysis of 21 Table of Contents then available data (both safety and efficacy) and there is the risk that such findings and conclusions could change following a more comprehensive review of the data by a regulatory authority. For example, in January 2013, we announced successful top-line results from our long-term Phase 3 study of Zerenex for the treatment of elevated serum phosphorus levels, or hyperphosphatemia, in patients with ESRD on dialysis. Updated results were presented in June 2013 at the World Congress of Nephrology. We can provide no assurance that our findings and conclusions from our long-term Phase 3 study of Zerenex will not change following a more comprehensive review of the data by a regulatory authority. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving what appeared to be promising results in earlier trials. We experienced such a setback with our Phase 3 KRX-0401 (perifosine) results in April 2012, and we can provide no assurance that we will not experience such setbacks with Zerenex or any other drug candidate we develop. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process for our existing drug candidate or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidate may be materially impaired. In addition, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and abroad. Accordingly, we may encounter unforeseen problems and delays in the approval process. Although we engage, from time to time, clinical research organizations with experience in conducting regulatory trials, errors in the conduct, monitoring, data capture and analysis, and/or auditing could potentially invalidate the results. Because all of our proprietary technologies are licensed or sublicensed to us by third parties, termination of these license rights would prevent us from developing and commercializing Zerenex. We do not own our drug candidate, Zerenex. We have licensed and sublicensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to Zerenex from a third party, Panion & BF Biotech, Inc., or Panion, who in turn licenses certain rights to Zerenex from one of the inventors of Zerenex. The license agreement with Panion requires us to meet development milestones and imposes development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under the agreement, we must pay royalties based on a mid-single digit percentage of net sales of product resulting from the licensed technologies (including Zerenex) and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the license. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our license agreement (including upon certain insolvency events), Panion could terminate the agreement, and we would lose the rights to Zerenex. In addition, if Panion breaches its agreement with the inventor from whom it licenses rights to Zerenex, Panion could lose its license, which could impair or delay our ability to develop and commercialize Zerenex. From time to time, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators, or they and/or we may have disagreements with the original inventors, regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development and commercialization of our current, and any future, drug candidate, could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive, or could lead to the termination of a license, or force us to negotiate a revised or new license agreement on terms less favorable than the original. In addition, in the event that the owners and/or licensors of the rights we license were to enter into bankruptcy or similar proceedings, we could potentially lose our rights to our drug candidates or our rights could otherwise be adversely affected, which could prevent us from developing or commercializing our drug candidates. Finally, our rights to develop and commercialize Zerenex, whether ourselves or with third parties, are subject to and limited by the terms and conditions of our licenses to Zerenex and the licenses and sublicenses we grant to others. We rely on third parties to manufacture and analytically test our drug candidate. If these third parties do not successfully manufacture and test our drug candidate, our business will be harmed. We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We intend to continue, in whole or in part, to use third parties to manufacture and analytically test our drug candidate for use in clinical trials and for future sales. We may not be able to enter into future contract agreements with these third-parties on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our ability to conduct clinical trials, manufacture and commercialize our drug candidate will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our drug candidate on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and other regulatory requirements, including requirements from federal, state and local environmental and safety regulatory agencies and foreign regulatory requirements, if applicable. Prior to approval, the FDA must review and approve our validation studies for drug substance and drug product. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may result in unanticipated technical challenges and may require additional validation studies that the FDA must review and approve. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving raw material supplies, production yields, technical difficulties, scaled-up product characteristics, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, capacity constraints, changing priorities within the contract manufacturers, compliance with 22 Table of Contents FDA and foreign regulations, environmental compliance, production costs and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Any of these difficulties, if they occur, and are not overcome to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agency, could lead to significant delays and possibly the termination of the development program for our drug candidate. These risks become more acute as we scale up for commercial quantities, where a reliable source of raw material supplies and drug substance and drug product processes become critical to commercial success. For example, given the large quantity of materials required for Zerenex production and the large quantities of Zerenex that will be required for commercial success, the commercial viability of Zerenex, if approved, will also depend on adequate supply of starting materials that meet quality, quantity and cost standards and the ability of our contract manufacturers to produce drug substance and drug product in large scale. Failure to achieve this level of supply can jeopardize and prevent the successful commercialization of the product. Moreover, issues that may arise in our current transition to commercial batch sizes with our third party manufacturers of Zerenex can lead to significant delays in our development timelines. Our third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market our drug candidate. In addition, our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding foreign governmental agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, as well as other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we periodically audit our contractors for adherence to regulatory requirements, and are ultimately held responsible for their regulatory compliance, we cannot assure you that unforeseen changes at these contractors will not occur that could change their regulatory standing. The same issues apply to contract analytical services which we use for quality, impurity and release testing of our drug candidate. We are required by law to have adequate control over raw materials, components and finished products furnished by our third-party manufacturers, which we establish by contract and through periodic oversight, but unforeseen circumstances could affect our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with applicable regulations and standards. As we continue to scale up production, we continue to develop analytical tools for ferric citrate drug substance and drug product testing. Failure to develop effective analytical tools could result in regulatory or technical delay or could jeopardize our ability to obtain FDA approval. Moreover, even with effective analytical methods available, there is no assurance that we will be able to analyze all the raw materials and qualify all impurities to the satisfaction of the FDA, possibly requiring additional analytical studies, analytical method development, or preclinical studies, which could significantly delay our ability to receive regulatory approval for our drug candidate. Additionally, changes in the analytical specifications required by the FDA or other regulatory authority, such as United States Pharmacopeial Convention standards, from time to time, could delay our ability to receive regulatory approval for our drug candidate. Switching or engaging multiple third-party contractors to produce our drug substance or drug product may be difficult and time consuming because the number of potential manufacturers may be limited and the process by which multiple manufacturers make the drug substance or drug product must meet established specifications at each manufacturing facility. It may be difficult and time consuming for us to find and engage replacement or multiple manufacturers quickly and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. For Zerenex, the loss of any of our drug substance or drug product manufacturers would result in significant additional costs and delays in our development program. Moreover, if we need to add or change manufacturers after commercialization, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve any new manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. If we do not establish or maintain manufacturing, drug development and marketing arrangements with third parties, we may be unable to commercialize our products. We do not possess all of the capabilities to fully commercialize our product on our own. From time to time, we may need to contract with additional third parties, or renew or revise contracts with existing third parties, to: • manufacture our product candidate; • assist us in developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing our compound and technologies; and • market and distribute our drug product. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter into agreements with such third parties on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully contract with third parties for these services when needed, or if existing arrangements for these services are terminated, whether or not through our actions, or if such third parties do not fully perform under these arrangements, we may have to delay, scale back or end one or more of our drug development programs or seek to develop or commercialize our product independently, which could result in significant delays. Furthermore, such failure could result in the termination of license rights to our product. If these manufacturing, development or marketing agreements take the form of a partnership or strategic alliance, such arrangements may provide our collaborators with significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the development and commercialization of our product. We cannot predict the form or scope that any such collaboration might take, and we may 23 Table of Contents pursue other strategic alternatives if terms or proposed collaborations are not attractive. To the extent that we rely on third parties to research, develop or commercialize our product, we are unable to control whether such product will be scientifically or commercially successful. Additionally, if these third parties fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform their work in a satisfactory manner, in spite of our efforts to monitor and ensure the quality of such work, we may face delays in achieving the business or regulatory milestones required for commercialization of our current, and any future, drug candidate. Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if such CROs fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we engage CROs and other vendors to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding our products through the FDA review and approval process. If the CROs or applicable vendors fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform clinical trials in a satisfactory or timely manner, we may face significant delays in completing our clinical trials, submitting our regulatory filings, or approval, as well as the commercialization of one or more drug candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of drug candidate(s). Other Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product effectively. In the event our drug candidate is approved by the FDA and or EMA, we may conduct our own sales and marketing effort to support the drug. We currently have limited experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To directly market and distribute any product, we must build and train a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We may attempt to build and train such a sales and marketing organization on our own or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. For some market opportunities, we may want or need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our product. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our product, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive and time consuming than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. From time to time we may consider offers or hold discussions with companies for partnerships or the acquisition of our company or any of our current or future products. Any accepted offer may preclude us from commercializing our product(s) effectively. Even if we obtain regulatory approval to market Zerenex, if it fails to achieve market acceptance, we may never record meaningful revenues. Even if Zerenex is approved for sale, it may not be commercially successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our drug product will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our product candidate, including, but not limited to, the perception of the long-term effects of the potential absorption and/or accumulation of ferric iron or citrate resulting from the use of Zerenex; • the marketing claims that the FDA will permit us to make in the labeling and advertising of Zerenex, including potential marketing claims related to the effect of Zerenex on iron storage parameters and on the reduction in the use of IV iron and ESAs; • the rates of adoption of our product by medical practitioners and the target populations for our product; • the potential advantages that our product offers over existing treatment methods and competing products; • the cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing products, which may be exacerbated as existing treatments go off-patent; • the pricing and pricing strategies for our product; • the availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our product; • the side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our product or similar products; and • the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. 24 Table of Contents Because we expect sales of our product, if approved, to generate substantially all of our revenues in the long-term, the failure of our drug to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or other sources of revenue. In addition, our estimates regarding market size and projected growth are based on third party studies, which while we believe them to be reasonable, may not prove to be accurate when Zerenex becomes available in the market. Some of the studies have also observed a slowdown of growth in the incidence of renal disease and patients on dialysis. In addition, we can provide no assurance that Riona® will be successfully launched and marketed in Japan by our Japanese partner, Japan Tobacco, Inc. and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. If our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug product, or our drug product does not achieve market acceptance vis-à-vis existing treatments, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that could render our drug product obsolete or noncompetitive. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. Zerenex, if approved in the U.S., would have to compete with other FDA approved phosphate binders such as Renagel® (sevelamer hydrochloride) and Renvela® (sevelamer carbonate), both marketed by Genzyme Corporation (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sanofi), PhosLo® (calcium acetate), marketed by Fresenius Medical Care, Fosrenol® (lanthanum carbonate), marketed by Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc, and Velphoro® (sucroferric oxyhydroxide), marketed by Fresenius Medical Care North America, as well as over-the-counter calcium carbonate products such as TUMS® and metal-based options such as aluminum and magnesium. Our strategy to compete against these existing treatments depends in part on physicians and patients accepting that Zerenex is differentiated in the marketplace versus these FDA approved phosphate binders. In addition, we may have to compete against existing treatments on price, which becomes more challenging as generic versions of these existing treatments come to market. For example, a generic formulation of PhosLo® manufactured by Roxane Laboratories, Inc. was launched in the U.S. in October 2008. In addition, upon the expiration of their core patents, generic formulations of Renagel® and Renvela® (expected in the U.S. beginning in March 2014), and generic formulations of Fosrenol®, may be launched, which could have a material effect on the pricing of phosphate binders. In addition, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug product. Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to acquire and develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidate and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our product(s) may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. As of March 1, 2014, we had 41 full and part-time employees. To successfully develop our drug candidate, we must be able to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our limited resources may hinder our efforts to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In addition, if we lose the services of our current personnel, in particular, Ron Bentsur, our Chief Executive Officer and Greg Madison, our Chief Operating Officer, our ability to continue to execute on our business plan could be materially impaired. Although we have employment agreements with Mr. Bentsur and Mr. Madison, such agreements do not prevent either of them from terminating their respective employment with us. Any acquisitions we make may require a significant amount of our available cash and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may effect acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, products, technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. 25 Table of Contents Acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, including: • difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business; • our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; • our inability to maintain the acquired company’s relationship with key third parties, such as alliance partners; • exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; • the diversion of our management’s attention from our core business; and • the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health insurers; • managed care programs; and • other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare and Medicaid, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. In 2003, Congress passed the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, which for the first time established prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, under Medicare Part D. Under this program, beneficiaries purchase insurance coverage from private insurance companies to cover the cost of their prescription drugs. However, third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our product, if approved. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product, its market acceptance may be significantly reduced. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business prospects and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally, the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price), and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. For example, drug manufacturers are required to have a national rebate agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, in order to obtain state Medicaid coverage, which requires manufacturers to pay a rebate on drugs dispensed to Medicaid patients. On January 27, 2012, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, issued a proposed regulation covering the calculation of Average Manufacturer Price, or AMP, which is the key variable in the calculation of these rebates. Furthermore, in the U.S., health care reform legislation titled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, was signed into law in March 2010. The impact of this legislation on our business is inherently difficult to predict as many of the details regarding the implementation of this legislation have not been determined. In a decision issued on June 29, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the majority of PPACA. The Court’s decision allows implementation of key provisions impacting drug and device manufacturers to go forward. This includes PPACA changes to the Medicare Part D Program (including closing the “donut hole”), Medicaid Drug Rebate Program (including the definition of AMP), and expansion of the 340B Drug Discount Program. The decision also allows the FDA and CMS to continue with implementation efforts, including related to the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act and the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, both of which were enacted as part of the PPACA. Regulations to implement PPACA could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. Government-financed comparative efficacy research could also result in new practice guidelines, labeling or reimbursement policies that discourages use of our product. 26 Table of Contents For example, in July 2010, CMS released its final rule to implement a bundled prospective payment system for end-stage renal disease facilities as required by the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act, or MIPPA. The final rule delayed the inclusion of oral medications without intravenous equivalents, such as phosphate binders, in the bundle until January 1, 2014; however, on January 3, 2013, the United States Congress passed legislation known as the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, delays by two years the implementation of oral-only end-stage renal disease related drugs, including phosphate binders, in the bundled ESRD prospective payment system, until January 1, 2016. If phosphate binders are included in the bundle beginning in 2016, separate Medicare reimbursement will no longer be available for phosphate binders, as it is today under Medicare Part D. While it is too early to project the impact bundling may have on the phosphate binder industry, the impact could potentially cause dramatic price reductions for phosphate binders, which could significantly reduce the commercial potential of our drug candidate, if approved. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and post-marketing clinical trials related to serious risks, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluation and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s exercise of this authority may result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, which may also increase costs related to complying with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and increase potential FDA restrictions on the sale or distribution of approved products. Finally, on July 9, 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act was enacted to, among other things, renew the drug user fee program, expand the FDA’s inspection records access and require manufacturers to establish appropriate oversight and controls over their suppliers and the supply chain, including raw material suppliers and contract manufacturers, as a part of cGMP compliance. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The use of our drug candidate in clinical trials, and the future sale of any approved drug candidate and new technology, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidate or limit commercialization of any approved product. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of any approved products if marketing approval is obtained; however, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We also may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for a product; • injury to our reputation; • our inability to continue to develop a drug candidate; • withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and • loss of revenues. Consequently, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. Our corporate compliance efforts cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sale, marketing, and reimbursement of our product(s), together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the U.S. and numerous entities outside of the U.S. We are a relatively small company with 41 full and part-time employees as of March 1, 2014. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have a product candidate in clinical development, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we believe that our corporate compliance program is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, we cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, issuance of an enforcement or warning letter, restrictions on our product or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of product(s) from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. 27 Table of Contents Risks related to our financial condition Our existing capital resources may not be adequate to finance our operating cash requirements for the length of time that we have estimated. We currently expect that our existing capital resources combined with future anticipated cash flows will be sufficient to operate our business plan. The actual amount of cash that we will need to operate is subject to many factors, including, but not limited to, the timing and expenditures associated with the build-up of pre-launch/launch inventory and capacity expansion, the timing and expenditures associated with the respective regulatory review processes for our U.S. NDA and EU MAA filings, the timing and expenditures associated with pre-commercial/commercial activities related to Zerenex, and the timing, design and conduct of clinical trials for Zerenex. We may depend upon significant additional financings to provide the cash necessary to execute our current operations, including the commercialization of Zerenex. Our forecast of the period of time through which our existing capital resources will be adequate to support our current operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties. The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • the timing and expenditures associated with the build-up of pre-launch/launch inventory and capacity expansion; • the timing and expenditures associated with the respective regulatory review processes for our U.S. NDA and EU MAA filings; • the timing and expenditures associated with pre-commercial/commercial activities related to Zerenex; • the timing, design and conduct of, and results from, clinical trials for Zerenex; • the timing of expenses associated with manufacturing and product development of Zerenex and those proprietary drug candidates that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired; • the timing of the in-licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities; • the progress of the development efforts of parties with whom we have entered, or may enter, into research and development agreements; • our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangement; • the timing and expenses associated with capital expenditures to expand our manufacturing capabilities; • the timing and expenses associated with building our own commercial infrastructure to manufacture, market and sell our drug candidate and those that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired; • the costs involved in prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and • the costs related to litigation. If our cash is insufficient to meet future operating requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities or sell or license to third parties some or all of our intellectual property. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted. If we need to raise additional funds through the sale or license of our intellectual property, we may be unable to do so on terms favorable to us, if at all. Risks related to our intellectual property and third-party contracts If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability, and the ability of our licensors, to obtain and maintain patent protection on our drug product and technologies, and to successfully defend these patents against third-party challenges. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, the patents we use may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative drug products or technologies or design around our patented drug product and technologies which may have an adverse effect on our business. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the U.S. that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference or derivation proceedings in front of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus 28 Table of Contents reducing any advantage of the patent. The patents we use may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. As many of the patents we use are licensed or sublicensed from third parties, we may not be able to enforce such licensed patents against third party infringers without the cooperation of the patent owner and the licensor, which may not be forthcoming. In addition, we may not be successful or timely in obtaining any patents for which we submit applications. Additionally, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. In addition, in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where we have patent rights, we may be unable to prevent unlicensed parties from selling or importing products or technologies derived elsewhere using our proprietary technology. We also rely on trade secrets and know-how to protect our intellectual property where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require our employees, licensees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, this may not be sufficient to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, we share ownership and publication rights to data relating to our drug product and technologies with our research collaborators and scientific advisors. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of this information, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information will be at risk. The intellectual property that we own or have licensed relating to our drug candidate, Zerenex, is limited, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect the value of Zerenex. The patent rights that we own or have licensed relating to Zerenex are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we obtain regulatory approval to market Zerenex. In particular: • Composition of matter patents can provide protection for pharmaceutical products to the extent that the specifically covered compositions are key, non-interchangeable components of the pharmaceutical product. The first composition of matter and method patent relating to Zerenex in the United States (U.S. Patent No. 5,753,706) expires in February 2017. We cannot assure you that we can obtain any extension of the term of this patent for delays caused by FDA regulatory review (the maximum amount of term of extension available under the Patent Term Extension provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 156 would extend the term of this patent to February 2022). Upon expiration of U.S. Patent No. 5,753,706, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval may potentially offer products with the same composition as our product, so long as the competitors do not infringe any other patents that we may hold, such as other composition of matter patents and/or method of use patents. We license additional composition of matter and use patents expiring in 2024 with independent claims covering forms of ferric citrate (the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, of Zerenex), pharmaceutical compositions that include the API, pharmaceutical compositions having ferric citrate in an amount effective to reduce serum phosphate levels, and methods of treating hyperphosphatemia and metabolic acidosis. • Our methods of use patents only protect the product when used or sold for the claimed methods. However, these types of patents do not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product that is labeled for an indication that is outside of our patented methods, or for which there is a substantial use in commerce outside of our patented methods. • Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or potentially sell our product(s) or in countries where others develop, manufacture and potentially sell products using our technologies. Moreover, our pending patent applications, if issued as patents, may not provide additional protection for our product. • Because any potential date for regulatory approval is currently unknown, it is possible that the life of these patents following regulatory approval will be minimal, even if the above-discussed Patent Term Extension is obtained. Obtaining proof of direct infringement by a competitor for a method of use patent can be difficult because the competitors making and marketing a product may not engage in the patented use. Additionally, obtaining proof that a competitor contributes to, or induces, infringement of a patented method by another can be difficult because, for example, an off-label use of a product could prohibit a finding of contributory infringement. In addition, proving inducement of infringement requires proof of intent by the competitor. If we are required to defend ourselves against claims or to protect our own proprietary rights against others, it could result in substantial costs to us and the distraction of our management. An adverse ruling in any litigation or administrative proceeding could prevent us from marketing and selling Zerenex if we obtain regulatory approval, increase the risk that a generic version of Zerenex could enter the market to compete with Zerenex, limit our development and commercialization of Zerenex, or otherwise harm our competitive position and result in additional significant costs. In addition, any successful claim of infringement asserted against us could subject us to monetary damages or injunction, which could prevent us from making or selling Zerenex. We also may be required to obtain licenses to use the relevant technology. Such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 29 Table of Contents Moreover, physicians may prescribe a competitive identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may directly infringe or contribute to or induce infringement of method of use patents, such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. In addition, any limitations of our patent protection described above may adversely affect the value of our product candidate and may inhibit our ability to obtain a corporate partner at terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition to patent protection, we may utilize orphan drug regulations, pediatric exclusivity or other provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938, as amended, or FDCA, such as new chemical entity exclusivity, or NCE, or new formulation exclusivity, to provide market exclusivity for a drug candidate. Orphan drug regulations provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or, diseases that affect more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. but that the sponsor does not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan drug can seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product. In the U.S., the FDA has the authority to grant additional data protection for approved drugs where the sponsor conducts specified testing in pediatric or adolescent populations. If granted, this pediatric exclusivity provides an additional six months which are added to the term of data protection as well as to the term of a relevant patent, to the extent these protections have not already expired. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the U.S. to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a New Chemical Entity, or NCE. A drug is an NCE if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which consists of the molecule(s) or ion(s) responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an abbreviated new drug application, or ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application (for example, for new indications, dosages, or strengths of an existing drug). This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or tentative approval of a full ANDA; however, an applicant submitting a full ANDA would be required to conduct sufficient studies to demonstrate that their generic product is bioequivalent to Zerenex. We may also seek to utilize market exclusivities in other territories, such as in the EU. We cannot assure that our drug candidate, Zerenex (ferric citrate coordination complex), or any drug candidates we may acquire or in-license, will obtain such orphan drug designation, pediatric exclusivity, new chemical entity exclusivity or any other market exclusivity in the U.S., EU or any other territory, or that we will be the first to receive the respective regulatory approval for such drugs so as to be eligible for any market exclusivity protection. Litigation or third-party claims could require us to spend substantial time and money defending such claims and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product. We may be forced to initiate litigation to enforce our contractual and intellectual property rights, or we may be sued by third parties asserting claims based on contract, tort or intellectual property infringement. In addition, third parties may have or may obtain patents in the future and claim that Zerenex or any other technologies infringe their patents. If we are required to defend against suits brought by third parties, or if we sue third parties to protect our rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs, and our management’s attention may be diverted from operating our business. In addition, any legal action against our licensor or us that seeks damages or an injunction of our commercial activities relating to Zerenex or other technologies could subject us to monetary liability, a temporary or permanent injunction preventing the development, 30 Table of Contents marketing and sale of Zerenex or such technologies, and/or require our licensor or us to obtain a license to continue to use Zerenex or other technologies. We cannot predict whether our licensor or we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of equity in the future. On August 2, 2013, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-190353), which the SEC declared effective on August 16, 2013, providing for the offering of up to $150 million of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. Subsequent to the underwritten public offering that was completed on January 23, 2014, there remains approximately $34.9 million of our common stock and warrants available for sale on this shelf registration statement. Future issuances of common stock could depress the market for our common stock. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes stock or other securities, our stockholders’ holdings may be significantly diluted. In addition, stockholders’ holdings may also be diluted if we enter into arrangements with third parties permitting us to issue shares of common stock in lieu of certain cash payments upon the achievement of milestones. Our stock price can be volatile, which increases the risk of litigation, and may result in a significant decline in the value of your investment. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • developments concerning our drug candidate, including the safety and efficacy results from clinical trials and regulatory filings and approvals; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • introductions or announcements of new products by us or our competitors; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments involving us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; • expectations regarding our financial condition; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • developments relating to our intellectual property and those of our competitors, including but not limited to, the commercialization of generic products; • expectations or investor speculation regarding the strength of our intellectual property position, or the availability of regulatory exclusivity; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • negative comments and sentiment in the media; and • additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. 31 Table of Contents Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 