Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and an investment in our common stock. Additionally, the following risk factors could cause our actual results to materially differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Our revenues and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not achieve future growth projections if we fail to compete successfully against our competitors or fail to develop our presence in new markets and technologies. Our competitors include several large medical device manufacturers, including Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Inc., C.R. Bard, Inc., Boston Scientific Corporation, Coloplast and Hologic, Inc. These and other of our competitors may have greater resources, more widely accepted products, better distribution channels, less invasive therapies, greater technical capabilities and stronger name recognition than we do. This is particularly the case when we enter new markets or develop technologies for new therapies, such as our laser therapy products. We expect our competitors will continue to improve their products and develop new competing products, including less invasive or non-invasive products, pharmaceuticals and cell or gene therapies. These new technologies and products may beat our products to the market, be more effective than our products, render our products obsolete by substantially reducing the prevalence of the conditions our products and therapies treat, or provide the same benefits as our existing products at the same or lower price. We may be unable to compete effectively with our competitors, or achieve our internally established growth targets, if we cannot keep up with existing or new alternative products, techniques, therapies and technologies in the markets we serve. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe the current worldwide economic crisis has resulted and may continue to result in some reduction in the procedures using our products. Although a majority of our products are subject to reimbursement from third party government and non-government entities, some procedures that use our products can be deferred by patients. In light of the current economic conditions, patients may not have employer-provided healthcare, be as willing to take time off from work or spend their money on deductibles and co-payments often required in connection with the procedures that use our products. Beyond patient demand, hospitals and clinics may be less likely to purchase capital equipment given the current economic conditions and credit environment. In addition, economic conditions could affect the financial strength of our vendors and their ability to fulfill their commitments to us, and could also affect the financial strength of our customers and our ability to collect accounts receivable. While we believe current economic conditions may have contributed to a softening in our recent revenue growth rates, the specific impact is difficult to measure. Furthermore, we cannot predict how these economic conditions will impact our future sales, cost of goods sold, or bad debt expense. 8 Table of Contents Disruptions in the global financial markets could impact the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us and our ability to obtain future financing. Recent economic events, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, have considerably disrupted the capital and credit markets. Our credit risk consists of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, trade receivables, derivative instruments, lending commitments and insurance relationships in the ordinary course of business. We place cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments with high quality financial institutions, which we monitor regularly and take action where possible to mitigate risk. We do not hold investments in auction rate securities, mortgage backed securities, collateralized debt obligations, individual corporate bonds, special investment vehicles or any other investments which have been directly impacted by the financial crisis. The carrying value of accounts receivable approximates fair value due to the relatively short payment terms on these instruments, or current payment patterns of our customers. To date, all lending commitments remain available to us, and we have not incurred any charges specific to the increased credit risks. Insurance programs are with carriers that remain highly rated and we have no significant pending claims. However, these disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations or commitments to us under our contracts with them. While all of our debt maturities are long-term, any debt amendment or requirement for financing in the future would have a significant negative impact on our financing costs. If our strategies to improve the performance of our laser therapy business are unsuccessful, our growth and profitability may be negatively impacted. We plan to implement a number of strategies in 2009 to improve the growth and profitability of our laser therapy business. These strategies include an internal reorganization and hiring of a general manager for BPH therapies, to focus dedicated resources to this part of our business. We also plan to reorganize our sales force and grow our relationships with mobile providers to increase revenues and continue to reduce costs and improve reliability of our laser therapy products to improve profitability. If these strategies are unsuccessful our growth and profitability may be negatively impacted. Our sales may be adversely affected if physicians do not recommend, endorse or accept our products. We rely upon physicians to recommend, endorse and accept our products. Many of the products we acquired or are developing are based on new treatment methods. Acceptance of our products is dependent on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, clinical efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to competitive products, and on training physicians in the proper application of our products. We believe our products address major market opportunities, but if we are unsuccessful in marketing them to physicians, or our products are identified in regulatory agency public health communications, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, most of our products are used by physicians who are required to maintain certain levels of medical malpractice insurance to maintain their hospital privileges. As the cost of this insurance increases, certain physicians who have used our products to treat their patients may stop performing surgeries or providing therapies. Unless the patients who would have been treated by these physicians are referred to other physicians who would use our products, sales of our products could decline. Our growth will be slowed if new products are delayed or are not accepted. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to introduce a number of new products and product improvements. Product introductions depend upon a variety of factors, including timely receipt of appropriate regulatory approvals. If we do not introduce these new products and product improvements on schedule, for any reason, or if they are not well accepted by the market or approved, in a timely manner or at all, by applicable regulatory authorities, our business may be adversely affected. Our sales could decline if our procedures are not accepted by patients. We predominantly sell implants and therapies for surgical procedures or treatments. If patients do not accept our products and therapies, our sales may decline. Patient acceptance of our products and therapies depends on a number of factors, including the failure of non-invasive therapies, the degree of invasiveness involved in the procedures using our products, the rate and severity of complications, and other adverse side effects from the procedures using our products. Patients are more likely to first consider non-invasive alternatives to treat their urological and related 9 Table of Contents disorders. Broader patient acceptance of alternative therapies or the introduction of new oral medications or other less-invasive therapies could adversely affect our business. Our products face the risk of technological obsolescence, which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We depend on our medical device technology and products to generate revenue. Therefore, we face the risk that third parties will succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, new, less invasive procedures and medications could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current procedures that use our products or may cause our customers to delay or defer purchasing our products. Accordingly, our success depends in part upon our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes through the development and introduction of new products. The relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance or approval processes, train physicians in the use of our products, gain reimbursement acceptance, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are expected to be important competitive factors. Any delays could result in a loss of market acceptance and market share. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and we cannot provide assurance that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. Changes in third party reimbursement for our products and therapies may influence our customers’ purchasing activity. Our physician and hospital customers depend on third party government and non-government entities around the world to reimburse them for services provided to patients. The level of such third party reimbursement has fluctuated from time to time in the past, may fluctuate in the future, and is subject to review or withdrawal at any time. The level of reimbursement may influence whether customers purchase our products. Further, as we expand our offerings from implants surgically delivered to patients in hospital settings to minimally-invasive therapies delivered to patients in physician offices, we must address the information needs of varied reimbursement systems and processes. Reimbursement rates vary depending on whether the procedure is performed in a hospital, ambulatory surgery center or physician office. While our sales history of devices in the U.S. does not reflect an obvious correlation between sales levels and changes in the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, reimbursement rates, office-based business may be more directly impacted by reimbursement rate fluctuations than our hospital-based business has been historically. For example, CMS is revising the methodology for calculating the physician practice expense component of the physician fee schedule, which accounts for, among other things, the cost of devices when a procedure is performed in a physician office or clinic. A significant change in practice expense payment levels may play a role in physician choices. Furthermore, a significant portion of our international sales are in Europe, where health care regulations and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries. Additionally, as we continue to expand into new global markets, we face the potential for lengthy reimbursement approval timeframes, process delays or a lack of transparency in certain reimbursement approval requirements. In summary, any unfavorable change in reimbursement could have a negative impact on our business. Failure to satisfy our debt obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business. As of January 3, 2009, we have $339.3 million in principal amount of Convertible Notes and $228.8 million outstanding under our Credit Facility as described in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — No. 9, Debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on either of these debt obligations or if we are in material breach of the covenants contained in the loan agreements, we would default under the terms of the applicable loan agreement or indenture. Any such default would likely result in an acceleration of the repayment obligations to such lenders as well as the lenders under any of our other debt agreements under applicable cross default provisions. 10 Table of Contents The terms of our Convertible Notes and our Credit Facility contain conditions which may adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including the following: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt instead of utilizing those funds for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, and acquisitions; • limiting our ability to obtain any necessary additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors who have lower levels of debt; • decreasing our debt ratings and increasing our cost of borrowed funds; • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • subjecting us to the risk of being forced to refinance at higher interest rates than these amounts when due. Conversion of our Convertible Notes into common stock could result in dilution to our shareholders. Our Convertible Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $19.406 per share, subject to adjustment. Upon conversion, in lieu of shares of our common stock, for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes a holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) $1,000 or (ii) the conversion value (determined in the manner set forth in the indenture under which the Convertible Notes were issued) of the number of shares of our common stock as determined based on the conversion rate. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, we will also deliver, in addition to cash, a number of shares of our common stock equal to the sum of the daily share amounts, as defined in the indenture. If a holder elects to convert its Convertible Notes in connection with a designated event that occurs prior to July 1, 2013, we will pay, to the extent described in the indenture, a make whole premium by increasing the conversion rate applicable to such Convertible Notes. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes increases as the market price of our common stock increases, as described in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. All of the above conversion rights are subject to certain limitations imposed by our Credit Facility. Our Credit Facility contains financial covenants and other restrictions which may limit our ability to operate our business. In addition to cash generated from operations, our Credit Facility represents our primary source of liquidity. The Credit Facility contains various restrictive covenants, compliance with which is essential to continued credit availability. Among the most significant of these restrictive covenants are financial covenants which require us to maintain predetermined ratio levels related to leverage, interest coverage, fixed charges, and a limit on capital expenditures. The covenants and restrictions contained in the Credit Facility could limit our ability to fund our business, make capital expenditures, and make acquisitions or other investments in the future. Any failure to comply with any of these financial and other affirmative and negative covenants would constitute an event of default under the credit agreement, entitling a majority of the bank lenders to, among other things, terminate future credit availability under the agreement, and/or increase the interest rate on outstanding debt, and/or accelerate the maturity of outstanding obligations under that agreement. Our borrowing costs are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates, and changes in interest rates may affect our profitability. Because our credit facility carries a floating interest rate tied to LIBOR, we are subject to market risk exposure related to changes in interest rates. During 2008, we began using financial instruments, including interest-swaps, to manage our interest rate risk on our floating rate debt. Under these arrangements, we effectively convert an amount of the principal balance under our credit facility, equal to a notional amount agreed upon in the financial instrument, from a floating rate to a fixed rate in a swap (or a range of floating rates should we utilize a collar or a limit on the floating rate in a cap), for an agreed-upon period of time. There is no certainty that we will continue to enter into financial instruments to hedge our risks in the future. Also, when we enter into a financial arrangement for a portion of our risk, there is no certainty that it would be effective or the rate will be at market for the entire term of the instrument. At the expiration or termination of any such financial instrument, we are again exposed to the market risk of increases in interest rates for our floating rate debt. We are also subject to the conditions of the debt market. 11 Table of Contents Our capital structure includes term loans and convertible note debt which are traded in public and private transactions with fluctuating prices. Any future amendment to our credit facility could result in higher costs due to the trading price or market conditions at that time. We could become obligated to make significant contingent payments or be subject to claims under prior acquisition agreements. We have agreed to make contingent payments, based upon achievement of various milestone and product sales, under various acquisition agreements. We have also made commitments to use commercially reasonable efforts to achieve some of these milestones and, in some cases, product sales. If we achieve these milestones and product sales, we will be obligated to make significant contingent payments. If we fail to achieve milestones or generate product sales related to these acquisitions, we could become involved in disputes or legal proceedings challenging our compliance with our contractual obligations, including the efforts we expended to achieve the relevant milestones or product sales, as applicable. Any such legal proceedings would likely be costly and time-consuming, and, if we were found not to have complied with our contractual obligations, we could be subject to significant damages. We may not be able to supply products that incorporate materials or components which are single or sole-sourced. Some of our products utilize raw materials or components that are either single- or sole-sourced. These sources of supply could encounter manufacturing difficulties or may unilaterally decide to stop supplying us because of product liability concerns or other factors. We currently rely on single source suppliers for the silicone and fabric used in our male prostheses and for the porcine dermis and mesh used in many of our female products. Furthermore, we use single sources for the TherMatrx® consoles and disposables. A key component of the InteXen® and IntePro® antibiotic technology is also procured from a single source. We rely on single and sole source suppliers for certain components in our GreenLight HPS® system. We do not have written agreements with many of our key suppliers requiring them to supply us with these raw materials or components, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to timely or cost-effectively replace any of these sources upon any disruption. The loss of any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the near term, as we would be required to qualify alternate designs or sources. The start-up, transfer, termination or interruption of any of these relationships or products, or the failure of our suppliers to supply product to us on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities, would likely cause us to be unable to meet customer orders for our products and harm our reputation with customers and our business. If we obtain a new supplier for a component, we may need to obtain FDA approval of a PMA supplement to reflect changes in product manufacturing and the FDA may require additional testing of any component from new suppliers prior to our use of these components. Further, if FDA approval of a PMA supplement is required, any delays in delivery of our product to customers would be extended and our costs associated with the change in product manufacturing may increase. Loss of our principal manufacturing and distribution facilities would adversely affect our financial position. We are currently operating with one manufacturing shift at each of our three principal locations, with no redundancy between facilities. We distribute our products from one location for a given product line. Although we believe we have adequate physical capacity to serve our business operations for the foreseeable future, and we carry property insurance on our facilities, we do not have a back up facility, and the loss or impairment of any of our Minnesota, California or Arizona facilities would have a material adverse effect on our sales, earnings, and financial condition. Inadequate data submissions or clinical study results which do not support a product approval may delay or preclude a product’s commercialization. Regulatory authorities around the world dictate different levels of manufacturing and design information and/or clinical data for various products and therapies in order to ensure their safety and efficacy. In the event the data submitted is deemed inadequate or the clinical study results do not support approval by any one or more of these regulatory authorities, a product may either not be fit for commercialization or may require a redesign to satisfy the regulatory authorities and/or clinical study outcomes. In addition, though a product’s clinical results may meet the regulatory requirements for product approval and commercialization, market acceptance and adoption of the product may not meet our expectations. 12 Table of Contents Our sale of products could be reduced if we are unable to comply with regulatory requirements or obtain the regulatory approvals necessary to market our products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If we fail to receive regulatory approval for future products, or for modifications to the design, labeling or indications of existing products, we will be unable to market and sell these products. In the United States, we must obtain approval from the FDA before we can begin commercializing most of our products. The FDA approval processes are typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Products distributed outside of the United States are also subject to foreign government regulations which vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approval from a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. In addition, we are required to comply with medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to FDA or similar governmental bodies in other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Our failure to comply or FDA disagreement with the approach taken to comply with regulatory requirements or obtain the necessary product approvals could result in government authorities: • imposing fines and penalties on us; • preventing us from manufacturing or distributing our products; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • delaying the introduction or denying marketing approval of our new products; • recalling, withdrawing, or seizing our products; and • requiring additional regulatory filings and/or approvals. In the event we fail to comply with manufacturing regulations, we could be prevented from selling our products. In order to commercially manufacture our products, we must comply with the FDA’s and other authorities’ manufacturing regulations which govern design controls, quality systems, labeling requirements and documentation policies and procedures. The FDA and foreign authorities periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these manufacturing regulations may prevent or delay us from marketing or distributing our products, or cause the FDA to take other enforcement actions against us which could have a negative impact on our business. We may experience an interruption in sales of a product and incur significant costs and negative publicity if that product is recalled or withdrawn. In the event that any of our products present a health hazard to the patient or physician, fail to meet product performance criteria or specifications, including labeling, or fail to comply with applicable laws including those administered by the FDA, we could voluntarily recall or withdraw the products. The FDA and similar international regulatory bodies have the authority to require us to recall or withdraw our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. A government mandated or voluntary recall or withdrawal by us could occur as a result of unanticipated safety risks, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. We have initiated product recalls in the past and there is a possibility that we may recall or withdraw products in the future and that future recalls or withdrawals could result in significant costs to us and in significant negative publicity which could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Our business may suffer if our new products are not cleared to market in the United States or any other market. We sell some of our products only in international markets because they have not been approved for marketing in the United States. We may be unable to sell future products in Europe, the United States or any other market for a number of reasons. These reasons include, among others, that the potential products could be: • ineffective or cause harmful side effects during preclinical testing or clinical trials; • difficult to manufacture on a large scale; or • uneconomical for the healthcare reimbursement system. 13 Table of Contents We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or obtain necessary intellectual property rights from third parties which could adversely affect our business, including losing market share to our competitors and the inability to operate our business profitably. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and therapies. We rely on patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. In addition, we cannot be assured that pending patent applications will be issued. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or significantly narrow claims made under patent applications and the issued patents, if any, may not provide us with sufficient commercial protection. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions. We cannot be sure that patents we hold or may hold in the future will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. Others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar or competing technology or design around any of our patents and may have or may in the future seek to apply for and obtain patents that may prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, issue, use and sell our products and product candidates. We have not secured patent protection in certain foreign countries in which our products are sold. The laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, or at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. We seek to protect our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. We cannot ensure, however, that: • these agreements will not be breached; • we will have adequate remedies for any breach; or • our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. Any disclosure of confidential information to third parties or into the public domain could allow our competitors to use such information in competition against us. In addition, we may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Should financial results severely decline, we might have to record a significant goodwill impairment charge. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we are required to evaluate goodwill each year for impairment. If we determine the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. It is likely that if our financial results were to decline substantially and if macroeconomic conditions eroded substantially, we would have to record a non-cash goodwill impairment loss in our statement of operations. We could incur significant costs and/or be required to stop the sale of the related product as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Our success and competitive position depends in part on our ability to effectively prosecute claims against others that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights and to defend against such claims made against us. The medical device industry is highly litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to seek to gain a competitive advantage. In the future, we may become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, would draw upon our financial resources and divert the time and efforts of our management. If we lose one of these proceedings, a court, or a similar foreign governing body, could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties, or require us to redesign our products. If we were unable to develop alternative technologies or acquire a license upon reasonable terms we may be prevented from manufacturing, using or selling our products. In addition to being costly, protracted litigation to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until the litigation is resolved. 14 Table of Contents We could incur significant costs or other negative impacts if significant product liability claims are made against us. The manufacture and sale of medical devices exposes us to risk of product liability claims. In the past, and at present, we have a number of product liability claims relating to our products. In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims, some of which may damage our reputation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, require us to pay substantial damage awards as a result of any successful claim, or otherwise have a negative impact on our business. As our product and therapy portfolio broadens into the treatment of additional medical indications, our historical product liability experience may not be a reflection of our longer term future exposure. As a result of our exposure to product liability claims, we currently carry product liability insurance with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that we believe to be adequate. We cannot provide assurance, however, whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover the risks associated with our business or whether such insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of our insurance coverage, our business could suffer. We are required to comply with broad, pervasive and continually changing federal and state “fraud and abuse” laws, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties and our products could be excluded from government healthcare programs. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. These laws, which directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business, include, but are not limited to, the following: • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, lease or order (or the arranging for or recommending of the purchase, lease or order) of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and corresponding state laws; • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; and • the federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. In the recent past, federal and state enforcement authorities, as well as private “whistleblowers” operating under the “qui tam” provisions of the federal False Claims Act, have sought to enforce these laws against manufacturers of medical devices, alleging, among other things, that certain financial relationships with physicians are not bona fide consulting or other legitimate agreements, but are instead intended to induce those physicians to use and recommend company products. These actions have resulted in some instances in substantial fines, penalties, and governmental supervision of those companies’ operations. Because our business necessitates frequent contact with physicians and other healthcare professionals, including financial relationships such as consulting agreements, training programs, and cooperative marketing arrangements, we have implemented a broad-based corporate compliance program, and voluntarily follow the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, in order to inform our employees regarding and maintain compliance with the foregoing laws and regulations. However, if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we or our officers may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation especially when considering the high public scrutiny in this area. If enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action. 15 Table of Contents Our international operations expose us to various risks, including risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in international markets. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, 29.1 percent and 28.0 percent, respectively, of our sales were to customers outside the United States. Some of these sales were to governmental entities and other organizations with extended payment terms. A number of factors, including differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political or economic instability in the countries where we do business, could affect payment terms and our ability to collect foreign receivables. We have little influence over these factors and changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, foreign sales are influenced by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the Euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, and Great Britain pound. Increases in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would positively impact our earnings and decreases in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would negatively impact our earnings. We use derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to hedge a portion of estimated currency exposures. The use of derivatives would only offset the portion hedged for adverse effects of an unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates and would also offset a portion of favorable movements in rates. The risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing components and products internationally may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations, such as various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export control laws, customs and import laws, and anti-boycott laws Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could impact us in a variety of ways that include, but are not limited to, significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including imprisonment of individuals, fines and penalties, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, some countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; • the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom the company does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; • economic instability; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and • exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in several foreign countries. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 