Risk Factors Relating to Us Grupo Galicia may be unable to repay its financial obligations due to a lack of liquidity it may suffer because of being a holding company Grupo Galicia, as a holding company, conducts its operations through its subsidiaries. Consequently, it does not operate or hold substantial assets, except for equity investments in its subsidiaries. Except for such assets, Grupo Galicia’s ability to invest in its business developments and/or to repay obligations is subject to the funds generated by its subsidiaries and their ability to pay cash dividends. In the absence of such funds, Grupo Galicia may be forced to resort to financing options at unappealing prices, rates and conditions. Additionally, such financing could be unavailable when Grupo Galicia may need it. Grupo Galicia’s subsidiaries are under no obligation to pay any amount to enable Grupo Galicia to carry out investment activities and/or to cancel its liabilities, or to give Grupo Galicia funds for such purposes. Each of the subsidiaries is a legal entity separate from Grupo Galicia, and due to certain circumstances, legal or contractual restrictions, as well as to the subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating requirements, Grupo Galicia’s ability to receive dividends and its ability to develop its business and/or to comply with payment obligations, could be limited. Under certain regulations and agreements, Banco Galicia has restrictions related to dividend distribution. In particular, effective as of the end of 2011, the Argentine Central Bank implemented new regulations regarding dividend distribution. These new regulations established that after paying dividends, financial institutions must still have an excess of computable capital over the new minimum requirement of 75%, an increase from the previous requirement of 30%. As a result of these regulations, Banco Galicia was unable to declare dividends for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, and therefore the ability of Grupo Financiero Galicia to pay dividends has been negatively impacted. In addition, the Federal Public Revenue Authority enacted new regulation (effective since February, 2013), requiring an Anticipated Affidavit of (Financial) Payments Abroad (named “DAPE”) in order to complete payments of dividends to non-residents (among other concepts which are also subject to the mandatory DAPE). Notwithstanding the fact that the repayment of such obligations could be afforded by Grupo Galicia through other means, such as bank loans or new issues in the capital market, investors should take notice of the above prior to deciding on their investment in debt or equity of Grupo Galicia. For further information on dividend distribution restrictions, see Item 5.B. “Liquidity and capital Resources.” Corporate governance standards and disclosure policies that govern companies listing their shares as part of the public offerings system in Argentina may differ from those regulating highly-developed capital markets, such as the U.S. As a foreign private issuer, Grupo Galicia applies disclosure policies and requirements that differ from those governing U.S. domestic registrants. Argentine disclosure requirements, are more limited than those in the United States in important respects and, as a foreign private issuer, Grupo Galicia may be subject to different disclosure and other requirements than a domestic U.S. registrant. For example, as a foreign private issuer in the U.S., Grupo Galicia is not subject to the same requirements and disclosure policies as a domestic U.S. registrant under the Exchange Act, including the requirements to prepare and issue financial statements, report on significant events and the standards applicable to domestic U.S. registrants under Section 14 of the Exchange Act or the insider reporting and short-swing profit rules applicable to domestic U.S. registrants. In addition, although Argentine laws provide for certain requirements that are similar to those prevailing in the U.S. in relation to publicly listed companies (including, for example, those related to price manipulation), in general, applicable Argentine laws are different to those in the U.S. and in certain aspects may provide different or fewer protections or remedies as compared to U.S. laws. Further, Grupo Galicia relies on exemptions from certain Nasdaq rules that are applicable to domestic companies. Accordingly, the information available about Grupo Galicia to you is not the same as, and may be more limited than, the information available to shareholders of a U.S. company. -16- Table of Contents Adverse conditions in the credit, capital and foreign exchange markets may have a material adverse effect on Grupo Galicia’s financial position and results of operations and adversely impact it by limiting its ability to access funding sources. Grupo Galicia may sustain losses relating to its investments in fixed- or variable-income securities on the exchange market and its monetary position due to, among other reasons, changes in market prices, defaults and fluctuations in interest rates and in exchange rates. A deterioration in the capital markets may cause Grupo Galicia to record net losses due to a decrease in the value of its investment portfolios, in addition to losses caused by the volatility in financial market prices, even if the economy overall is not affected. Any of these losses could have an adverse effect on Grupo Galicia’s results of operations. A percentage of Banco Galicia’s liquidity is derived from local banks and the local capital market. As of December 31, 2014, Banco Galicia’s liquidity ratio was 38.6%, as measured by liquid assets as a percentage of total deposits (liquid assets that include cash, bank loans, holdings of securities issued by the Argentine Central Bank (“Lebac” and “Nobac”), net interbank loans, short-term placements with correspondent banks and repurchase agreement transactions in the local market). Any disruptions in the local capital market or in the local financial market, as have been experienced by Argentina in the past, may result in a reduction in availability and/or increased cost of financing for liquidity obtained from such sources. These conditions may impact Banco Galicia’s ability to replace, in a cost effective and/or timely manner, maturing liabilities and/or access funding to execute its growth strategy. Any such event may adversely affect Banco Galicia’s financial position and/or results of operations. Grupo Galicia’s subsidiaries estimate and establish reserves for potential credit risk or future credit losses, which may be inadequate or insufficient, and which may, in turn, materially and adversely affect its financial position and results of operations. Grupo Galicia’s subsidiaries estimate and establish reserves for potential credit risk and losses related to changes in the levels of income of debtors/borrowers, increased rates of inflation, increased levels of non-performing loans or an increase in interest rates. This process requires a complex and subjective analysis, including economic projections and assumptions regarding the ability of debtors to repay their loans. Therefore, if in the future Grupo Galicia’s subsidiaries are unable to effectively control the level of quality of their loan portfolio, if loan loss reserves are inadequate to cover future losses, or if they are required to increase their loan loss reserves due to an increase in the amount of their non-performing loans, the financial position and the results of operations of Grupo Galicia’s subsidiaries may be materially and adversely affected. If Grupo Galicia’s main subsidiary, Banco Galicia, should fail to detect money laundering and other illegal or inappropriate activities in a comprehensive or timely manner, the business interests and reputation of Banco Galicia, and consequently, that of Grupo Galicia, may be harmed. Banco Galicia must be in compliance with all applicable laws against money laundering, funding of terrorist activities and other regulations. These laws and regulations require, among other things, that Banco Galicia adopt and implement control policies and procedures which involve “know your customer” principles that comply with the applicable regulations and reporting suspicious or unusual transactions to the applicable regulatory authorities. While Banco Galicia has adopted policies and procedures intended to detect and prevent the use of its network for money laundering activities and by terrorists, terrorist organizations and other types of organizations, those policies and procedures may fail to fully eliminate the risk that Banco Galicia has been or is currently being used by other parties, without its knowledge, to engage in activities related to money laundering or other illegal activities. To the extent that Banco Galicia has not detected or does not detect those illegal activities, the relevant governmental agencies to which it reports have the power and authority to impose fines and other penalties on Banco Galicia. In addition, its business and reputation could be adversely affected if customers use it for money laundering activities or other illegal activities. A disruption or failure in Grupo Galicia’s information technology system could adversely affect its operations and financial position. The success of Grupo Galicia’s subsidiaries is dependent upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of their communications and computer hardware systems, including those systems related to the operation of their ATM networks. Grupo Galicia’s communications, systems or transactions could be harmed or disrupted by fire, floods, power failures, defective telecommunications, computer viruses, electronic or physical theft and similar events or disruptions. Any of the foregoing events may cause disruptions in Grupo Galicia’s systems, delays and the loss of critical data, and could prevent it from operating at optimal levels. In addition, the contingency plans in place -17- Table of Contents may not be sufficient to cover all those events and, therefore, this may mean that the applicable insurance coverage is limited or inadequate, preventing Banco Galicia from receiving full compensation for the losses sustained as a result of such a disruption. If any of these events occur, it could damage the reputation, entail serious costs and affect Grupo Galicia’s transactions, as well as its results of operations and financial position. 