Risk Factors Associated with Our Product Development Efforts.” Sulonex is currently in Phase III and Phase IV clinical trials. We estimate that the cost to complete the Phase III will be approximately $10 million to $20 million, and we believe that the Phase III will be completed in the first half of 2008. With respect to KRX-0401, KRX-0402, KRX-0601 and Zerenex, we are unable to estimate the cost to complete the current phase of each drug and also unable to project a time for the completion of the current phase. Each of KRX-0401, KRX-0402, KRX-0601 and Zerenex are in Phase II clinical development. Phase II clinical development is exploratory by design and looks at different doses and disease settings and thus is highly unpredictable, and the length of time required and results will vary based on patient enrollment, response rates in the trials, and the potential need for additional trials or increases in patients included, among other factors. Due to the nature of a Phase II and our inability to predict the results of such studies, we cannot estimate when such a program will end, and it is equally difficult to project the cost to complete such phase. 14 KRX-0404 and KRX-0501 are currently pre-clinical drug candidates. The timing and results of pre-clinical studies are highly unpredictable. Due to the nature of pre-clinical studies and our inability to predict the results of such studies, we cannot estimate when such pre-clinical development will end, and it is equally difficult to project the cost to complete such development. AccuminTM On April 6, 2006, Accumin Diagnostics, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition of AccuminTM, a novel, patent protected, diagnostic for the direct measurement of total, intact urinary albumin, from AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc. We believe that the acquisition of Accumin may help increase our exposure to physicians that treat diabetes, the target market for Sulonex, by emphasizing the importance of early detection of microalbuminuria. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PATENTS General Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to the development of our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. It is our intention to seek and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our drug candidates and our proprietary technologies. As part of our business strategy, our policy is to actively file patent applications in the United States and, when appropriate, internationally to cover methods of use, new chemical compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and dosing of the compounds and compositions and improvements in each of these. We also rely on trade secret information, technical know-how, innovation and agreements with third parties to continuously expand and protect our competitive position. We have a number of patents and patent applications related to our compounds and other technology, but we cannot guarantee the scope of protection of the issued patents, or that such patents will survive a validity or enforceability challenge, or that any the pending patent applications will issue as patents. Generally, patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for a period of 18 months or more. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we are not certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file those patent applications. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents, or their enforceability. To date, there has been no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Third parties or competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications, if issued. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. If a patent is issued to a third party containing one or more preclusive or conflicting claims, and those claims are ultimately determined to be valid and enforceable, we may be required to obtain a license under such patent or to develop or obtain alternative technology. In the event of a litigation involving a third party claim, an adverse outcome in the litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to such third party, require us to seek a license for the disputed rights from such third party, and/or require us to cease use of the technology. Further, our breach of an existing license or failure to obtain a license to technology required to commercialize our products may seriously harm our business. We also may need to commence litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation would involve substantial costs. Sulonex Pursuant to our license for Sulonex, we initially had the rights to ten patent families, including nine families of issued United States patents and foreign counterparts, and one family of a pending United States patent application and foreign counterparts. However, we determined that several of the licensed patents were not material to our business strategy and relinquished all rights to those patents. The four remaining patent families currently under license cover the use of Sulonex or glycosaminoglycans for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, retinopathy or neuropathy. In addition, we subsequently filed five additional United States patent applications and certain foreign counterparts relating to this product, which applications are currently pending. The remaining licensed patents, and the additional patent applications, are being maintained throughout the territories in which they were filed. 15 U.S. Patent No. 5,496,807 covers the use of sulodexide to treat a patient with diabetic nephropathy exhibiting microalbuminuria or macroalbuminuria. This patent expires in 2014. Based on the provisions of the Patent Term Extension Act, we currently believe that we would qualify for patent term extension of at least three years, thereby extending our patent exclusivity, for the issued United States patent to at least 2017. We believe that we will have sufficient time to commercially utilize the inventions directed to the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. Other Clinical-Stage Compounds, including KRX-0401 Pursuant to our acquisition of ACCESS Oncology, Inc., or ACCESS Oncology, in February 2004, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patents and patent applications in the United States, Canada and Mexico related to KRX-0401. These patents and patent applications cover composition of matter and methods of treatment. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, we have obtained a United States patent and foreign counterparts directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising KRX-0402 expiring in 2010 (with extension expected through 2015) and a series of United States patents and foreign counterparts directed to derivatives of KRX-0402 expiring in 2011 to 2019. Pursuant to our license agreement for KRX-0601, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patent applications worldwide excluding Japan. These patents and patent applications cover composition of matter and process of making for UCN-01 and liposomal formulations of UCN-01. The composition of matter patent expires in June 2007. The method of use patents expire from 2013 to 2017. Pursuant to our license for Zerenex with Panion & BF Biotech, Inc., or Panion, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patent applications worldwide, excluding certain Asian-Pacific countries. These patents and patent applications cover a method of treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with ESRD, as well as a method for the manufacture of Zerenex. Panion holds one use patent expiring 2017 (with extensions expected through 2020) and two manufacturing process patents (expiring 2023). Other Intellectual Property Rights We depend upon trademarks, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, scientific advisors, consultants and collaborators, upon commencement of a relationship with us, to execute confidentiality agreements and, in the case of parties other than our research and development collaborators, to agree to assign their inventions to us. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed in connection with their relationship with us. These agreements may not, however, provide protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. In addition to patent protection, we may utilize orphan drug regulations to provide market exclusivity for certain of our drug candidates. The orphan drug regulations of the FDA provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or, diseases that affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States but that the sponsor does not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan drug can seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product. We believe that certain of the indications for our drug candidates will be eligible for orphan drug designation; however, we cannot assure you that our drugs will obtain such orphan drug designation or that we will be the first to receive FDA approval for such drugs so as to be eligible for market exclusivity protection. With respect to KRX-0402 and KRX-0601, we may rely predominantly on the market exclusivity provided under the orphan drug regulations as the patents on these drugs may expire prior to commercialization. LICENSING AGREEMENTS AND COLLABORATIONS We have formed strategic alliances with a number of companies for the manufacture and commercialization of our products. Our current key strategic alliances are discussed below. 16 Alfa Wassermann S.p.A. Under a license agreement with Alfa Wassermann, we have the exclusive rights to sulodexide (Sulonex) for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, neuropathy and retinopathy in the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Israel. The license entitles Alfa Wassermann to annual license fees, royalties and certain milestone payments. Under the license, we must use our reasonable best efforts to commercially exploit and market sulodexide. In certain circumstances Alfa Wassermann is entitled to use proprietary information developed by us and, if it chooses to do so, will be liable to pay a percentage of the expenses incurred by us to develop such proprietary information. If the license is not terminated sooner, it will terminate upon the later of the date of expiration of the last claim under the licensed patent rights or ten years from our first commercial sale of a licensed product. Collaborative Study Group In June 2005, we announced that the CSG will be conducting our pivotal Phase III and Phase IV clinical program of Sulonex for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. The CSG receives a monthly fee and reimbursement of expenses from us as compensation for its work in connection with this clinical program. The CSG also has the right to publish data arising from the clinical program. The agreement remains in force through June 2009, unless extended by the parties. Either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon 30 days written notice to the other party. Opocrin, S.p.A. Pursuant to a license with Opocrin, S.p.A., a private drug manufacturer, we have a non-exclusive worldwide license to the manufacturing process of sulodexide (Sulonex) for a period of twelve years from the date of the first commercial sale of the product. Notwithstanding this right, Opocrin shall have the right to terminate the agreement on 60 days notice in the event that we have not submitted an NDA to the FDA by December 31, 2007. AEterna Zentaris Inc. In September 2002, we signed a commercial license agreement with Zentaris AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of AEterna Zentaris Inc., relating to the development of KRX-0401 covering composition of matter and methods of treatment. This agreement grants us the exclusive rights to KRX-0401 in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Zentaris is entitled to certain royalty payments, as well as additional compensation upon successful achievement of certain milestones. The license terminates upon the later of the expiration of all underlying patent rights or ten years from the first commercial sale of KRX-0401 in any of the covered territories. We also have the right to extend the agreement for an additional five years beyond the expiration of all underlying patents. The National Institutes of Health In October 2000, we entered into a worldwide, exclusive commercial sub-license agreement with Procept, Inc., or Procept, a wholly owned subsidiary of Paligent, Inc., relating to the development and marketing of KRX-0402. In March 2005, we entered into an agreement with Procept and the NIH, which amended the license agreement between Procept and the NIH whereby we obtained all of Procept's rights and interests, and assumed all of Procept's obligations, under the agreement. The NIH is entitled to certain milestone payments, as well as royalty payments on net sales of KRX-0402. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights. Panion & BF Biotech, Inc. In November 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Panion. Under the license agreement, we have acquired the exclusive worldwide rights, excluding certain Asian-Pacific countries, for the development and marketing of Zerenex. Panion is entitled to certain milestone payments, as well as royalty payments on net sales of Zerenex. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights. Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. In September 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, or Kyowa, for the worldwide development and commercialization rights, excluding Japan, to KRX-0601. Kyowa is entitled to milestone payments as well as royalties on product sales, if any. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights. 17 AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc. In April 2006, Accumin Diagnostics, Inc., or ADI, our wholly-owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition of AccuminTM, a novel, patent protected, diagnostic for the direct measurement of total, intact urinary albumin, from AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc., or AusAm. ADI may be required to pay up to a maximum of $16.1 million in royalties on revenue from a next generation product following FDA marketing approval. In addition, payment of AusAm liabilities by ADI under license agreements in the amount of $180,000 remains outstanding as of December 31, 2006, to be paid over the next 27 months. COMPETITION Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. Our competitors include pharmaceuticals companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. The drugs that we are attempting to develop will have to compete with existing therapies. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. Other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We have entered into a relationship with a U.S.-based contract manufacturer for Sulonex which we believe will be adequate to satisfy our current clinical supply needs. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with the same manufacturer to build a larger scale manufacturing suite within their current facility, which they will operate on our behalf. We believe this suite will be suitable to manufacture launch and initial commercialization (1 to 3 years) quantities of Sulonex. As we move forward, we plan to build additional manufacturing capacity to meet the future demands for Sulonex. As with all heparin-like compounds, the end product is highly sensitive to the manufacturing process utilized. Accordingly, as we scale-up, we will need to accurately reproduce the established process on the larger scale to ensure successful commercialization of Sulonex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this endeavor. Additionally, as we scale-up, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital expenditures to enable larger scale production. To date, we have spent over $9 million in capital expenditures building the current manufacturing suite. The creation of a reproducible process is also critical in successfully sourcing Sulonex from multiple suppliers to create back-up manufacturing capabilities and/or to meet market demand. We believe that multi-sourcing is possible provided we can demonstrate that the manufacturing process is the same at all suppliers and the product produced by them is equivalent. Key raw materials for Sulonex, our lead product candidate, are derived from porcine mucosa. Long-term supplies for Sulonex could be affected by limitations in the supply of porcine mucosa and the demand for other heparin products, over which we will have no control. We estimate, in part, based on the number of pigs killed worldwide and estimates of projected supplies of porcine mucosa, that there is enough potential supply of this raw material to commercialize Sulonex. If our estimates of the potential supply of this key raw material are not accurate or we cannot secure adequate amounts of the potential supply of such material, then the market potential of Sulonex will not be realized. Additionally, diseases affecting the world supply of pigs could have an actual or perceived negative impact on our ability, or the ability of our contract manufacturers, to source, make and/or sell Sulonex. All of these factors could materially affect the commercial success of Sulonex. We have established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of Zerenex to ensure that we will have sufficient material for clinical trials. In addition, we are establishing the basis for commercial production capabilities. As with any supply program, obtaining raw materials of the correct quality cannot be guaranteed and we cannot ensure that we will be successful in this endeavor. We have also established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of KRX-0401 and KRX-0402. 18 At the time of commercial sale, to the extent possible and commercially practicable, we would seek to engage a back-up supplier for each of our product candidates. Until such time, we expect that we will rely on a single contract manufacturer to produce each of our product candidates under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. Our third-party manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced and will have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in quantities sufficient for conducting clinical trials or for commercialization. Our third-party manufacturers will have other clients and may have other priorities that could affect their ability to perform the work satisfactorily and/or on a timely basis. Both of these occurrences would be beyond our control. We expect to similarly rely on contract manufacturing relationships for any products that we may in-license or acquire in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contract with such manufacturers on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other state and federal regulations. Our contractors in Europe face similar challenges from the numerous European Union and member state regulatory agencies. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, other than through contractual obligations. If we need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these new manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA regulations and standards and may require significant lead times and delay. Furthermore, switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY REGULATION Numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies, impose substantial regulations upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of our drug candidates, as well as our ongoing research and development activities. None of our drug candidates have been approved for sale in any market in which we have marketing rights. Before marketing in the United States, any drug that we develop must undergo rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938, as amended. The FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, efficacy, approval, manufacturing, record keeping, adverse event reporting, packaging, labeling, storage, advertising, promotion, export, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We are required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication or use to establish a drug candidate’s safety and efficacy before we can secure FDA approval. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or surveillance. Before commencing clinical trials in humans, we must submit an IND to the FDA containing, among other things, pre-clinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and control information, and an investigative plan. Our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. The FDA may permit expedited development, evaluation, and marketing of new therapies intended to treat persons with serious or life-threatening conditions for which there is an unmet medical need under its fast track drug development programs. A sponsor can apply for fast track designation at the time of submission of an IND, or at any time prior to receiving marketing approval of the NDA. To receive fast track designation, an applicant must demonstrate: · that the drug is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition; · that the drug is intended to treat a serious aspect of the condition; and · that the drug has the potential to address unmet medical needs, and this potential is being evaluated in the planned drug development program. The FDA must respond to a request for fast track designation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the request. Over the course of drug development, a product in a fast track development program must continue to meet the criteria for fast track designation. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs must be in regular contact with the reviewing division of the FDA to ensure that the evidence necessary to support marketing approval will be developed and presented in a format conducive to an efficient review. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs ordinarily are eligible for priority review and also may be permitted to submit portions of an NDA to the FDA for review before the complete application is submitted. In 2001, Sulonex received fast track designation. 19 Sponsors of drugs designated as fast track also may seek approval under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations under subpart H. Pursuant to subpart H, the FDA may grant marketing approval for a new drug product on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely, based on epidemiologic, therapeutic, pathophysiologic, or other evidence, to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. Approval will be subject to the requirement that the applicant study the drug further to verify and describe its clinical benefit where there is uncertainty as to the relation of the surrogate endpoint to clinical benefit or uncertainty as to the relation of the observed clinical benefit to ultimate outcome. Post-marketing studies are usually underway at the time an applicant files the NDA. When required to be conducted, such post-marketing studies must also be adequate and well-controlled. The applicant must carry out any such post-marketing studies with due diligence. In November of 2002, we announced that the FDA agreed in principal that the NDA for Sulonex may be filed under subpart H. Final approval will be based on a determination by the FDA of the safety and efficacy of Sulonex based on a surrogate endpoint. We have submitted a subpart H clinical development plan to the FDA for the clinical development of Sulonex for diabetic nephropathy. In March 2005, we announced that we had finalized an SPA agreement with the FDA for the Phase III and Phase IV clinical trials of Sulonex. The clinical plan to support an NDA approval for Sulonex under subpart H, as agreed upon with the FDA under an SPA, consists of: (i) a single Phase III trial in patients with microalbuminuria based on the surrogate marker of regression of microalbuminuria as the primary endpoint; (ii) supportive data from previously conducted clinical studies; and (iii) substantial recruitment into our Phase IV confirmatory study that will measure clinical outcomes in patients with overt nephropathy, or macroalbuminuria. The subpart H process is complex and requires careful execution. No assurance can be given that we will be able to meet the requirements set forth in the SPA. Even if we meet those requirements, the FDA is not obligated to grant approval of our NDA for Sulonex. If the FDA approves Sulonex for marketing on the basis of our Phase III trial, our Phase IV clinical trial may yield insufficient efficacy data or give rise to safety concerns, which could result in withdrawal of such approval or could cause us to withdraw the product from the market. Many companies who have been granted the right to utilize an accelerated approval approach have failed to obtain approval. Moreover, negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we hope to conduct or adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. Clinical testing must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices, and must be conducted pursuant to an IND, unless exempted. For purposes of NDA approval, clinical trials are typically conducted in the following sequential phases: · Phase I: The drug is administered to a small group of humans, either healthy volunteers or patients, to test for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, excretion, and clinical pharmacology. · Phase II: Studies are conducted on a larger number of patients to assess the efficacy of the product, to ascertain dose tolerance and the optimal dose range, and to gather additional data relating to safety and potential adverse events. · Phase III: Studies establish safety and efficacy in an expanded patient population. · Phase IV: The FDA may require Phase IV post-marketing studies to find out more about the drug’s long-term risks, benefits, and optimal use, or to test the drug in different populations. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or that may increase the costs of these trials, include: · slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the clinical trial plan, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for participation in the study or other factors; 20 · inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials or delays in approvals from a study site’s review board; · longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or determine the appropriate product dose; · insufficient supply of the drug candidates; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and · ineffectiveness of the drug candidates. In addition, the FDA may place a clinical trial on hold or terminate it if it concludes that subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Any drug is likely to produce some toxicity or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for a sufficiently long period of time. Unacceptable toxicity or side effects may occur at any dose level at any time in the course of studies in animals designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as toxicological studies, or clinical trials of drug candidates. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our drug candidates and could ultimately prevent approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for its intended use by submitting to the FDA an NDA containing the pre-clinical and clinical data that have been accumulated, together with chemistry and manufacturing and controls specifications and information, and proposed labeling, among other things. The FDA may refuse to accept an NDA for filing if certain content criteria are not met and, even after accepting an NDA, the FDA may often require additional information, including clinical data, before approval of marketing a product. As part of the approval process, the FDA must inspect and approve each manufacturing facility. Among the conditions of approval is the requirement that a manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP. Manufacturers must expend time, money and effort to ensure compliance with cGMP, and the FDA conducts periodic inspections to certify compliance. It may be difficult for our manufacturers or us to comply with the applicable cGMP and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we, or our contract manufacturers, fail to comply, then the FDA will not allow us to market products that have been affected by the failure. If the FDA grants approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states, conditions and patient populations for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical studies. Further, a product may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved in the NDA. Certain changes to an approved NDA, including, with certain exceptions, any changes to labeling, require approval of a supplemental application before the drug may be marketed as changed. Any products that we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including compliance with cGMP and the reporting of adverse experiences with the drugs. The nature of marketing claims that the FDA will permit us to make in the labeling and advertising of our products will be limited to those specified in an FDA approval, and the advertising of our products will be subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA. Claims exceeding those that are approved will constitute a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or regulatory requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or after approval may result in agency enforcement actions, including withdrawal of approval, recall, seizure of products, injunctions, fines and/or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Should we wish to market our products outside the United States, we must receive marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, companies are typically required to apply for foreign marketing authorizations at a national level. However, within the European Union, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one European Union member state. Typically, if the regulatory authority is satisfied that a company has presented adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy, then the regulatory authority will grant a marketing authorization. This foreign regulatory approval process, however, involves risks similar or identical to the risks associated with FDA approval discussed above, and therefore we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the appropriate marketing authorization for any product in any particular country. 21 Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of new drugs are subject to future changes. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, effect or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Company-sponsored research and development expenses (excluding non-cash compensation and acquired in-process research and development expenses) totaled $9,805,000 in 2004, $24,182,000 in 2005, and $56,139,000 in 2006. “Other research and development expenses” consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs, fees paid to consultants and outside service providers for clinical and laboratory development, facilities-related and other expenses relating to the design, development, testing, and enhancement of our product candidates and technologies, as well as expenses related to in-licensing of new product candidates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview.” EMPLOYEES As of March 1, 2007, we had 40 full- and part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 22 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. These factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies. In addition, we have incurred operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $188.2 million. As we expand our research and development efforts, we will incur increasing losses. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates and cannot be sure we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations and successfully commercialize our drug candidates. Risks Associated with Our Product Development Efforts If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are planning clinical trials that will seek to enroll patients with the same diseases as we are studying. In addition, one of our current trials for Sulonex is designed to continue until a pre-determined number of events have occurred to the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from lower than expected event rates and may also incur increased costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials on a cost-effective or timely basis. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity and risk as we are subject to events affecting countries outside the United States. Additionally, we have finalized an SPA agreement with the FDA for the Phase III and Phase IV clinical trials of Sulonex. The clinical plan to support a new drug application, or NDA, approval for Sulonex under subpart H, as agreed upon with the FDA under an SPA, consists of: (i) a single Phase III trial in patients with microalbuminuria based on the surrogate marker of regression of microalbuminuria as the primary endpoint; (ii) supportive data from previously conducted clinical studies; and (iii) substantial recruitment into our Phase IV confirmatory study that will measure clinical outcomes in patients with overt nephropathy, or macroalbuminuria. The subpart H process is complex and requires careful execution. No assurance can be given that we will be able to meet the requirements set forth in the SPA. Even if we meet those requirements, the FDA is not obligated to grant approval of our NDA for Sulonex. If the FDA approves Sulonex for marketing on the basis of our Phase III trial, our Phase IV clinical trial may yield insufficient efficacy data or give rise to safety concerns, which could result in withdrawal of such approval or could cause us to withdraw the product from the market. Many companies who have been granted the right to utilize an accelerated approval approach have failed to obtain approval. Moreover, negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we hope to conduct or adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. 23 If our drug candidates do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. We will need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we can apply for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Negative or inconclusive results or medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. Furthermore, interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be obtained in later studies. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite positive results in initial clinical testing. There can be no assurance that the results from the Sulonex Phase III study will track the data from the pilot CSG Phase II study or the DiNAS Phase II study, or that the results from the Sulonex Phase IV study will yield sufficient efficacy data. Results from these earlier Sulonex studies may not be indicative of results from future clinical trials and the risk remains that the pivotal program for Sulonex may generate efficacy data that will be insufficient for the approval of the drug, or may raise safety concerns that may prevent approval of the drug. Interpretation of the prior safety data of Sulonex, or our other drug candidates, may also be flawed and there can be no assurance that safety concerns from the prior data were overlooked or misinterpreted, which in subsequent, larger studies appear and prevents approval of Sulonex or our other drugs candidates. Clinical trials also have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be materially impaired. In addition, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval in the United States and abroad and, accordingly, may encounter unforeseen problems and delays in the approval process. Because all of our proprietary technologies are licensed to us by third parties, termination of these license agreements would prevent us from developing our drug candidates. We do not own any of our drug candidates. We have licensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to our drugs candidates from third parties. These license agreements require us to meet development or financing milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the licenses. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our license agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. We rely on third parties to manufacture our products. If these third parties do not successfully manufacture our products, our business will be harmed. We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We intend to continue, in whole or in part, to use third parties to manufacture our products for use in clinical trials and for future sales. We may not be able to enter into future third-party contract manufacturing agreements on acceptable terms to us, if at all. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, compliance with FDA and foreign regulations, production costs and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Our third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market our drug candidates. In addition, our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding foreign governmental agencies to ensure strict compliance with, among other things, current good manufacturing practices, in addition to other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We will not have control over, other than by contract, third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. Switching or engaging multiple manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and, particularly in the case of Sulonex, the process by which multiple manufacturers make the drug substance must be identical at each manufacturing facility. It may be difficult for us to find and engage replacement or multiple manufacturers quickly and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, if we need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. 24 If third-party manufacturers fail to deliver the required quantities of our drug candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we will not be able to commercialize our products as planned. We have entered into a relationship with a U.S.-based contract manufacturer for Sulonex which we believe will be adequate to satisfy our current clinical supply needs. In addition, we have entered into an agreement with the same manufacturer to build a larger scale manufacturing suite within their current facility, which they will operate on our behalf. We believe this suite will be suitable to manufacture launch and initial commercialization (approximately one to three years) quantities of Sulonex. As we move forward, we plan to build additional manufacturing capacity to meet the future demands for Sulonex. As with all heparin-like compounds, the end product is highly sensitive to the manufacturing process utilized. Accordingly, as we scale-up we will need to accurately reproduce the established process on the larger scale to ensure successful commercialization of Sulonex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this endeavor. Additionally, as we scale-up, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital expenditures to enable larger scale production. Through December 31, 2006, we have spent over $8 million in capital expenditures building the current manufacturing suite. If we are not able to obtain the raw materials required for the manufacture of our lead product candidate, Sulonex, our ability to develop and market this product candidate will be substantially harmed. Key raw materials for Sulonex, our lead product candidate, are derived from porcine mucosa. Long-term supplies for Sulonex could be affected by limitations in the supply of porcine mucosa and the demand for other heparin products, over which we will have no control. We estimate, in part, based on the number of pigs killed worldwide and estimates of projected supplies of porcine mucosa, that there is enough potential supply of this raw material to commercialize Sulonex. If our estimates of the potential supply of this key raw material are not accurate or we cannot secure adequate amounts of the potential supply of such material, then the market potential of Sulonex will not be realized. Additionally, diseases affecting the world supply of pigs could have an actual or perceived negative impact on our ability, or the ability of our contract manufacturers, to source, make and/or sell Sulonex. Such negative impact could materially affect the commercial success of Sulonex. If we do not establish or maintain manufacturing, drug development and marketing arrangements with third parties, we may be unable to commercialize our products. We are an emerging company and do not possess all of the capabilities to fully commercialize our products on our own. From time to time, we may need to contract with third parties to: · manufacture our product candidates; · assist us in developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing some of our compounds and technologies; and · market and distribute our drug products. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter into agreements with such third parties on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully contract with third parties for these services when needed, or if existing arrangements for these services are terminated, whether or not through our actions, or if such third parties do not fully perform under these arrangements, we may have to delay, scale back or end one or more of our drug development programs or seek to develop or commercialize our products independently, which could result in delays. Furthermore, such failure could result in the termination of license rights to one or more of our products. If these manufacturing, development or marketing agreements take the form of a partnership or strategic alliance, such arrangements may provide our collaborators with significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the development and commercialization of our products. Accordingly, to the extent that we rely on third parties to research, develop or commercialize our products, we are unable to control whether such products will be scientifically or commercially successful. Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we engage CROs to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding our products through the FDA review and approval process. If the CROs fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of one or more drug candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of drug candidates. 25 Other Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our products effectively. In the event Sulonex is approved by the FDA, we currently plan to conduct our own sales and marketing effort to support the drug, and we may adopt this strategy with respect to future drug products. We currently have no experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To directly market and distribute any products, we must build a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We may attempt to build such a sales and marketing organization on our own or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. For some market opportunities, we may need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. Even if we obtain FDA approval to market our drug products, if they fail to achieve market acceptance, we will never record meaningful revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be commercially successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our drug products will depend on a number of factors, including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; · the rates of adoption of our products by medical practitioners and the target populations for our products; · the potential advantages that our products offer over existing treatment methods; · the cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; · the availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our products; · the side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products; and · the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Because we expect sales of our products, if approved, to generate substantially all of our revenues in the long-term, the failure of our drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or other sources of revenue. If our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that could render our drug products obsolete or noncompetitive. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. 26 The drugs that we are attempting to develop will have to compete with existing therapies. In addition, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products. Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. As of March 1, 2007, we had 40 full and part-time employees. To successfully develop our drug candidates, we must be able to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In addition, if we lose the services of our current personnel, in particular, Michael S. Weiss, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our ability to continue to execute on our business plan could be materially impaired. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Weiss, this agreement does not prevent him from terminating his employment with us. Any acquisitions we make may require a significant amount of our available cash and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may effect acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, products, technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. Acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, including: · difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business; · our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; · our inability to maintain the acquired company's relationship with key third parties, such as alliance partners; · exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; · the diversion of our management's attention from our core business; and · the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: · government and health administration authorities; · private health insurers; · managed care programs; and · other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, their market acceptance may be reduced. In particular, we are currently projecting that the price of Sulonex will be at a significant premium to the currently marketed products that are approved for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. The inability to obtain adequate reimbursement for Sulonex would limit our ability to generate revenue and prevent us from realizing the market potential of Sulonex. 27 Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price) and government control of prescription drug pricing. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials, the future sale of any approved drug candidates and new technologies, and the sale of Accumin, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates or limit commercialization of any approved products. We believe that we have obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and the sale of Accumin. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of any approved products if marketing approval is obtained; however, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We also may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for a product; · injury to our reputation; · our inability to continue to develop a drug candidate; · withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and · loss of revenues. Consequently, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. In connection with providing our clinical trial management and site recruitment services, we may be exposed to liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Online Collaborative Oncology Group, Inc., or OCOG, a subsidiary we acquired through our acquisition of ACCESS Oncology, provides clinical trial management and site recruitment services to us as well as other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. In conducting the activities of OCOG, any failure on our part to comply with applicable governmental regulations or contractual obligations could expose us to liability to our clients and could have a material adverse effect on us. We also could be held liable for errors or omissions in connection with the services we perform. In addition, the wrongful or erroneous delivery of health care information or services may expose us to liability. If we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any such claims, the losses could be material. Our corporate compliance efforts cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company with 40 full and part-time employees. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have a product candidate in late-stage clinical development, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we believe that our corporate compliance program is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, we cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. 28 Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our current cash, cash equivalents and investment securities may not be adequate to support our operations for approximately the next 18 to 24 months as we have estimated. We believe that our $125.6 million in cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable and investment securities as of December 31, 2006 will be sufficient to enable us to meet our planned operating needs and capital expenditures for approximately the next 18 to 24 months. Our forecast of the period of time through which our cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable and investment securities will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties. The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: · the timing of completion and results from clinical trials for our drug candidates, especially Sulonex; · the timing of expenses associated with manufacturing and product development of the proprietary drug candidates within our portfolio and those that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired; · the timing of the in-licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities; · the progress of the development efforts of parties with whom we have entered, or may enter, into research and development agreements; · our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; and · the costs involved in prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, our business would be harmed. We expect to use, rather than generate, funds from operations for the foreseeable future. Based on our current plans, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable and investment securities will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements for approximately the next 18 to 24 months; however, the actual amount of funds that we will need prior to or after that date will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result, we may need funds sooner or in different amounts than we currently anticipate, depending upon: · the timing of completion and results from clinical trials for our drug candidates, especially Sulonex; · the progress of our development activities; · the progress of our research activities; · the number and scope of our development programs; · the costs associated with commercialization activities, including manufacturing, marketing and sales; · our ability to establish and maintain current and new licensing or acquisition arrangements; · our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; · the costs involved in enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and · the costs and timing of regulatory approvals. If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities or sell or license to third parties some or all of our intellectual property. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted. If we need to raise additional funds through the sale or license of our intellectual property, we may be unable to do so on terms favorable to us. 29 Our prior restructurings may result in additional Israeli-related liabilities. In July 2003, our Israeli subsidiary vacated its Jerusalem facility, after giving advance notice to the landlord. On May 1, 2005, the landlord of the Jerusalem facility filed suit in Israel claiming that we were liable as a result of the alleged breach of the lease agreement by our subsidiary. The amount demanded by the landlord totals 4,345,313 New Israeli Shekels, or approximately $1,032,000, and includes rent for the entire remaining term of the lease, as well as property taxes and other costs allegedly incurred by the landlord. In August 2003, the landlord claimed a bank deposit, in the amount of $222,000, which was previously provided as security in connection with the lease agreement. We intend to vigorously defend the suit. In July 2005, Keryx (Israel) Ltd. and Keryx Biomedical Technologies Ltd. filed an answer to the landlord’s complaint. In October 2005, Keryx filed an answer to the landlord’s complaint. Generally, each answer challenges the merits of the landlord’s cause of action as to each defendant. All defendants, except Keryx (Israel) Ltd., have also filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiff has filed a response to each answer. At this time, the Circuit Court of Jerusalem has not issued a decision with respect to the motion to dismiss. A hearing on a motion by Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. to vacate service of process outside of Israel was held in June 2006. In October 2006, the Circuit Court of Jerusalem held that the service of process on Keryx was valid. We appealed this determination and the appeal is currently pending. To date, we have not yet recorded a charge to reflect any potential liability associated with this lawsuit as it is too early to accurately estimate the amount of the charge, if any. In September 2001, one of our Israeli subsidiaries received the status of an "Approved Enterprise," a status which grants certain tax benefits in Israel in accordance with the "Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959." Through December 31, 2003, our Israeli subsidiary, which ceased operations in 2003, has received tax benefits in the form of exemptions of approximately $744,000 as a result of our subsidiary's status as an "Approved Enterprise." As part of the restructuring implemented during 2003, we closed down our Jerusalem laboratory facility. In October 2003, the subsidiary received a letter from the Israeli Ministry of Industry and Trade that its Approved Enterprise status was cancelled as of July 2003 and that past benefits would not need to be repaid. The Israeli tax authorities have yet to confirm this position; however, we believe that, based on the letter received from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it is unlikely that past benefits will need to be repaid, and therefore, we have not recorded any charge with respect to this potential liability. There can be no assurances that the Israeli tax authorities will confirm this position. As a result, we may be liable to repay some or all of the tax benefits received to date, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. We are party to a motion filed by AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc. in Bankruptcy Court that may result in us making an additional payment to AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc. We acquired the assets of the diagnostics business of AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc., a debtor in a pending Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, in a court-approved transaction. Subsequent to the closing, disputes arose between the debtor and Keryx relating to the determination of the purchase consideration under the acquisition agreement. On July 31, 2006, the debtor filed a motion purporting to seek to enforce the terms of the acquisition agreement and alleging damages in the amount of $818,145. The parties have agreed to a settlement in principle of the matter, subject to documentation and Bankruptcy Court approval, pursuant to which Keryx will pay AusAm approximately $110,000. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our drug products and technologies and successfully defend these patents against third-party challenges. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, the patents we use may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative drug products or technologies or design around our patented drug products and technologies. The patents we use may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require our employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, this may not be sufficient to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, we share ownership and publication rights to data relating to some of our drug products and technologies with our research collaborators and scientific advisors. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of this information, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information will be at risk. 30 Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money defending such claims and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Third parties may assert that we are using their proprietary intellectual property without authorization. In addition, third parties may have or obtain patents in the future and claim that our drug products or technologies infringe their patents. If we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we sue third parties to protect our patent rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs, and our management's attention may be diverted from operating our business. In addition, any legal action against our licensors or us that seeks damages or an injunction of our commercial activities relating to our drug products or technologies could subject us to monetary liability and require our licensors or us to obtain a license to continue to use our drug products or technologies. We cannot predict whether our licensors or we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of equity in the future. On December 30, 2005, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, that was declared effective by the SEC on January 13, 2006, providing for the offering of up to $150 million of our common stock. Following our registered direct offering of common stock to two institutional investors that was completed in March 2006, there remains approximately $67 million available for sale on this shelf registration statement. Future sales pursuant to this registration statement could depress the market for our common stock. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes stock or other securities, our stockholders may be significantly diluted. We may be required to issue up to 3,372,422 shares of our common stock to former stockholders of ACCESS Oncology upon the achievement of certain milestones. In addition, we may enter into arrangements with third parties permitting us to issue shares of common stock in lieu of certain cash payments upon the achievement of milestones. Our stock price can be volatile, which increases the risk of litigation, and may result in a significant decline in the value of your investment. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · developments concerning our drug candidates; · announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; · introductions or announcements of new products by us or our competitors; · announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; · expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; · conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; · changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and · additions or departures of key personnel. 31 In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 