ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our current projections as to future financial performance, our expectations as to events and potential results related to our research and development programs, and our views as to the possible outcome of pending litigation related to our intellectual property portfolio and other disputes. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about such future events. While we believe these expectations are reasonable, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various reasons, including those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place substantial weight on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this report are made only as of the date of this report. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any of these statements. We may not achieve our goal of becoming cash flow positive, and may never become profitable. We have generated operating losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2006, we had cumulative net losses of approximately $194.5 million. These losses have resulted principally from the costs of our research and development activities, which have totaled approximately $115.6 million since our inception. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase over the next several years as a result of increased costs and expenses associated with our ViaCyte clinical trial and possible future clinical trials of other product candidates, if pre-clinical data supports moving forward. Future research and development expenses may also include costs associated with product candidates that we might license or acquire, and, if our programs are successful, costs and expenses associated with submissions for regulatory approvals and the expansion of clinical and commercial scale manufacturing facilities. However, the amount of these increases is difficult to predict, and will depend on a number of factors, such as results of our clinical programs, the design of future clinical trials, the results of our efforts to acquire or license new technologies, and decisions made with respect to advancement of our clinical programs. Furthermore, we may make additional sales and marketing investments in our Reproductive Health business, if deemed advisable to expand the market for our ViaCord service offering. Our ability to become cash flow positive and to achieve profitability, and the timing of such events, will depend on many factors, including some or all of the following: • our ability to increase sales of our ViaCord service offering particularly in the face of significant competition; • continued acceptance in the marketplace for private cord blood banking; • the impact of any unexpected issues or failures related to the collection, processing, or storage of umbilical cord blood by us or others in the industry; • the impact of any potential adverse outcome in the patent infringement lawsuit brought against us by PharmaStem, including legal expenses, and the material impact on our business if PharmaStem were able to obtain an injunction; • the level of our expenses, including as a result of difficulties or delays related to our research and development programs, and any unexpected expenses; and • the overall net impact on revenues and expenses of new licensing deals, collaborations or other strategic efforts. We cannot assure you that we will ever become cash flow positive or profitable. Other factors that may affect our ability to become cash flow positive and profitable are described in more detail elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. We may not be able to sustain our current level of revenues or our recent growth rates. Revenues from sales of ViaCord have grown significantly over the past several years, from $7.1 million in 2001, to $20.1 million, $30.9 million, $36.8 million, $43.8 million and $54.1 million in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. We believe that this revenue growth is a result of our increased marketing efforts and from 17 Table of Contents increased awareness by the public generally of the concept of umbilical cord blood preservation. We may not be able in the future, however, to sustain this growth rate or the current level of ViaCord’s revenues. The principal factors that may adversely affect our revenues include competition from other private cord blood banks, any decline in the market or market acceptance for cord blood banking, the impact or recommendations as to public banking over private banking from physician groups, such as the recent policy statement issued by the American Academy of Pediatricians, the risks associated with litigation, in particular, the pending PharmaStem litigation, the risk of operational issues, the risks of not being able to maintain relationships with key third party marketing partners, and the risks of reputational damage. These and other risks that may affect our future revenues are described in more detail elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. If we are unable to sustain our revenues, we may need to reduce our research and development activities or raise additional funds earlier than anticipated or on unfavorable terms, and our stock price may be adversely affected. If we do not prevail in the PharmaStem litigation, we may be prevented from selling our ViaCord service offering, or may have to incur significant expenses. In 2002, PharmaStem Therapeutics, Inc. filed suit against us and several other defendants in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging infringement of U.S. Patents No. 5,004,681 (‘681) and No. 5,192,553 (‘553), relating to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood. We believe that we do not infringe these patents and that the patents are invalid. In 2003, a jury ruled against us and the other defendants, Cbr Systems Inc, CorCell, Inc., which is now a subsidiary of Cord Blood America Inc., and Cryo-Cell International Inc, who represent a majority of the family cord blood preservation industry, finding that the patents were valid and enforceable and that the defendants infringed the patents. A judgment was entered against us for approximately $2.9 million, based on 6.125% royalties on our revenues from the processing and storage of umbilical cord blood since April 2000. In 2004, the District Court judge in the case overturned the jury’s verdict and entered judgment in our favor and against PharmaStem, stating that PharmaStem had failed to prove infringement. Consequently, we have not recorded a liability as of December 31, 2006. PharmaStem has appealed the judge’s decision. We have appealed the jury’s finding as to validity of the patents. A hearing on the appeal was held at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit on April 4, 2006. A final ruling has not been issued in the appeal. In July 2004, PharmaStem filed a second complaint against us. The second complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging infringement of U.S. Patents No. 6,461,645 (‘645) and 6,569,427 (‘427), which also relate to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood. We believe that the patents in this new action are invalid and that we do not infringe them. On January 7, 2005, PharmaStem filed a Motion for Preliminary Injunction in the Massachusetts litigation. That motion is currently stayed. We believe the issues presented in this case are substantially the same as the issues presented in the original Delaware litigation. Accordingly, we filed a motion to consolidate the Massachusetts case with six other actions against other defendants in a single proceeding in the District of Delaware. On February 16, 2005, our request was granted. The cases have been consolidated in Delaware. On October 6, 2005, the Delaware court granted our motion to stay all discovery in the second lawsuit pending decisions from the Federal Circuit on PharmaStem’s appeal of the District Court of Delaware’s ruling in the original case and from the U.S. PTO on the patent re-examinations described below. In late 2006, the U.S. PTO issued final decisions in the existing re-examination of both the ‘553 method patent and the ‘681 composition patent at issue in the first case and the ‘645 and the ‘427 patents at issue in the second case based on prior art. The U.S. PTO had ordered a second re-examination of the ‘427 patent in order to determine whether certain claims of the patent should expire in 2008, rather than in 2010. The U.S. PTO issued notice of its intent to allow the remaining claims of all of the patents. In either of the pending cases, if we are ultimately found to infringe valid claims of the PharmaStem patents, we could have a significant damages award entered against us. If we are found to infringe during the course of either case, including if the court of appeals were to overturn the district court’s non-infringement ruling, we could also 18 Table of Contents face an injunction which could prohibit us from further engaging in the umbilical cord stem cell business absent a license from PharmaStem. PharmaStem would be under no legal obligation to grant us a license or to do so on economically reasonable terms, and previously informed us that it would not do so after October 15, 2004. While we do not believe this outcome is likely, in the event of an injunction, if we are not able to obtain a license under the disputed patents on economically reasonable terms or at all and we cannot operate under an equitable doctrine known as “intervening rights,” we could be required to stop preserving and storing cord blood and to cease using cryopreserved umbilical cord blood as a source for stem cell products. We may enter into settlement negotiations with PharmaStem regarding the litigation. We cannot predict whether any such negotiations would lead to a settlement of these lawsuits or what the terms or timing of any such settlement might be, if it occurs at all. A loss in either of the PharmaStem lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from our ViaCord service offering, which is currently our only commercialized product, and would have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and stock price. Even if we ultimately prevail, we are likely to incur significant legal expenses during the course of the cases. A third party could try to challenge the arbitrator’s decision related to our agreement with Mothers Work. We have an agreement with Mothers Work related to the marketing of our ViaCord service offering. The agreement can be terminated early by either company if the other company commits a material breach of the agreement or under certain circumstances arising from claims by a third party alleging that the third party has rights that supersede Mothers Work’s commitment to us. A third party has claimed that it has rights under an agreement with Mothers Work that supersede Mothers Work’s commitment to us. The dispute between Mothers Work and the third party was the subject of an arbitration proceeding. In February 2007, the arbitrator ruled in favor of Mothers Work. There is no assurance that the third party will not challenge the arbitrator’s ruling, although we believe that reversal of the ruling is unlikely. If the third party were to be successful in efforts to overturn the arbitrator’s decision, the termination rights under our agreement with Mothers Work could be triggered. In addition, as a condition to commencing the agreement on January 1, 2007, we agreed to indemnify Mothers Work for any damages that Mothers Work may be assessed in the event that Mothers Work is found to be in breach of its agreement with the third party as a result of having entered into an agreement with us. We also agreed to reimburse Mothers Work for certain legal fees if the fees exceed a specified threshold. Our potential obligation to Mothers Work under the indemnification agreement is unlimited. However, based on our assessment of the low likelihood that we might have to pay damages or legal fees given the arbitrator’s ruling, we concluded the fair value of our indemnification obligation is not material and have not recorded a liability as of December 31, 2006. The Government of Singapore may seek to recover grant funds received by us if we do not agree to extend the term of the current grant. We record revenues from a grant agreement with the Economic Development Board (EDB) of the Government of Singapore related to our research facility in Singapore. Government grants are routinely subject to review. We are in discussions with the EDB regarding conclusion of our current grant, which expires in May 2007. In the course of these discussions, the EDB has taken the position that a prior period increase in the EDB’s cost reimbursement percentage constituted an advance on future grant funding. We, however, believe that the increase constituted a mutually agreed upon increase in the reimbursement percentage for the period, after which the reimbursement rate was to revert to the rate prior to such increase. The amount received by us under the increased reimbursement percentage was approximately $1.0 million. The EDB has asked for repayment of the disputed amount. In connection with this dispute, the EDB is now also asserting that we have not fulfilled a commitment to employ a specified number of people in Singapore that was an original condition of the grant. Under the terms of the grant, a breach by us of a condition of the grant could result in the EDB pursuing repayment of some or all of the amounts disbursed to us. We believe that the EDB has waived this commitment, and that, as a result, we have satisfied all requirements under the grant. If we do not agree to repay the disputed amount, the EDB may seek to recover grant funds previously paid and/or withhold payment of existing or future grant claims that are as yet unpaid. We believe we have met our performance obligations and would be successful in our defense of any such claims. We are attempting to resolve this dispute with the EDB and have proposed the possibility of amending the grant to reduce its term and cumulative funding. Accordingly, we have recorded negative revenues of approximately $0.2 million in 19 Table of Contents the quarter ended December 31, 2006 as estimated settlement costs. As of December 31, 2006, we had received grant payments from EDB totaling approximately $1.9 million and had recognized cumulative grant revenues of approximately $1.7 million as of December 31, 2006. If we are not able to successfully develop and commercialize new products, our future prospects may be limited. Very few companies have been successful in their efforts to develop and commercialize a stem cell product. Stem cell products in general may be susceptible to various risks, including undesirable and unintended side effects, unintended immune system responses, inadequate therapeutic efficacy or other characteristics that may prevent or limit their approval or commercial use. Our cellular therapy product candidates are in the early stages of development. Drug development in general involves a high degree of risk. As we obtain results and safety information from pre-clinical or clinical trials of our product candidates, we may elect to discontinue development or delay additional pre-clinical studies or clinical trials in order to focus our resources on more promising product candidates. For example, we recently made the decision not to advance CB001, one of our product candidates in the area of hematopoietic stem cell therapy, in future clinical trials. We may also change the indication being pursued for a particular product candidate or otherwise revise the development plan for that candidate. Moreover, product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through earlier clinical testing. We cannot market any product candidate until regulatory agencies grant marketing approval or licensure. The industry and the FDA have relatively little experience with therapeutics based on cellular medicine generally. As a result, the pathway to regulatory approval for our stem cell-based product candidates may be more complex and lengthy than the pathway for approval of a new conventional drug. Similarly, to obtain approval to market our stem cell products outside of the U.S., we will need to submit clinical data concerning our products and receive regulatory approval from the appropriate governmental agencies. Standards for approval outside the U.S. may differ from those required by the FDA. We may encounter delays or rejections if changes occur in regulatory agency policies during the period in which we develop a product candidate or during the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is lengthy, expensive and uncertain, and we may never gain necessary approvals. Any difficulties that we encounter in developing our product candidates and in obtaining regulatory approval may have a substantial adverse impact on our operations and cause our stock price to decline significantly. If we are not able to successfully develop our product candidates and obtain regulatory approval, we will not be able to commercialize such products, and therefore may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to support our business. We expect that none of our cellular therapy product candidates will be commercially available for at least several years, if at all. We will need to devote significant additional research and development, financial resources and personnel to develop commercially viable products and obtain regulatory approvals. We may not be able to successfully develop our ViaCyte oocyte cryopreservation product candidate. In June 2006, the FDA gave us conditional approval of our Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, to allow our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate to be used in a clinical trial. We expect to initiate the pivotal clinical trial in March 2007. We are currently planning to conduct a single, pivotal clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of ViaCyte. The goal of the clinical trial is to generate data to submit to the FDA for a 510(k) application. In response to the original 510(k) application filed by our prior media supplier, the FDA indicated that the media supplier had not demonstrated substantial equivalence of the media to a predicate device and, as a result, the FDA could not clear the media for commercial use. The FDA indicated that the 510(k) application could be re-submitted when additional data supporting substantial equivalence of the media to a predicate device were available. There is no assurance that we will be able to show that our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. While methods for preserving sperm and embryos are well-established and have been utilized for in vitro fertilization procedures, methods for cryopreserving oocytes have not been widely 20 Table of Contents employed due to difficulties encountered in freezing this cell. We may not be able to generate the number of live births needed to show that our product candidate is effective. We may also encounter unexpected safety issues. Even if the results of the trial are favorable, there is no assurance that the FDA will agree that we have met the standards for 510(k) clearance. The FDA could at any time determine that some or all of the components used to cryopreserve the oocytes will require pre-market approval, or PMA, and additional trials, which would involve additional time and expense. Even if we are successful in our efforts to develop and gain approval for ViaCyte, the FDA could ask for post-approval safety monitoring which would entail additional expense. The FDA could also restrict the label for the product to limited patient populations which could limit its commercial potential. We may not be able to raise additional funds necessary to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $51.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. In order to develop and bring new products to market, we must commit substantial resources to costly and time-consuming research and development, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials. While we anticipate that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments will be sufficient to fund our current operations for the next three years, we may need or want to raise additional funding sooner, particularly if our business or operations change in a manner that consumes available resources more rapidly than we anticipate. We expect to attempt to raise additional funds well in advance of completely depleting our available funds. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the level of cash flows from sales of our ViaCord service offering; • the scope and results of our research and development programs; • the clinical pathway for each of our product candidates, including the number, size, scope and cost of clinical trials required to establish safety and efficacy; • the results of litigation and other disputes; • the costs associated with expanding our portfolio of product candidates through licensing, collaborations or acquisitions; • the costs of increasing or expanding our ViaCord sales and marketing efforts; • the costs of research and development work focused on developing clinical and commercial scale processes for manufacturing cellular products and, if we advance our products, the costs of building and operating our manufacturing facilities, both to support our clinical activities and also in anticipation of growing our commercialization activities; • funds spent in connection with acquisitions of related technologies or businesses, including contingent payments that may be made in connection with our acquisition of Kourion Therapeutics; • the costs of maintaining, expanding and protecting our intellectual property portfolio, including litigation costs and liabilities; and • our ability to establish and maintain collaborative arrangements and obtain milestones, royalties and other payments from collaborators. We may seek additional funding through collaborative arrangements and public or private financings. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we obtain additional capital through collaborative arrangements, these arrangements may require us to relinquish greater rights to our technologies or product candidates than we might otherwise have done. If we raise additional capital through the sale of equity, or securities convertible into equity, further dilution to our then existing stockholders will result. If we raise additional capital through the incurrence of debt, our business may be affected by the amount of leverage we incur. For instance, such borrowings could subject us to covenants restricting our business activities, servicing interest would divert funds that would otherwise be available to support research and development, clinical or commercialization activities, and holders of debt instruments would have rights and privileges senior to those of our equity investors. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, 21 Table of Contents reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on patents and other proprietary rights that may fail to protect our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our product candidates, technologies and trade secrets. We own or have exclusive licenses to U.S. patents and international patents. We also own or have exclusive licenses to pending applications in the U.S. and pending applications in foreign countries. Our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. The patent position of biotechnology companies is generally highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has been the subject of much litigation. Neither the U.S. PTO nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many biotechnology patents. The claims of our existing U.S. patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may not offer significant protection of our technologies. For example, our patent applications covering Unrestricted Somatic Stem Cells, or USSCs, claim these cells and/or their use in the treatment of many diseases. It is possible, however, that these cells could be covered by other patents or patent applications which identify, isolate or use the same cells by other markers, although we are not aware of any. Third parties may challenge, narrow, invalidate or circumvent any patents we obtain based on our applications. Interference proceedings brought by the U.S. PTO may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distraction to our management. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. Although we have not needed to take such action to date, we may be required to file infringement claims to counter infringement or unauthorized use. This can be expensive, particularly for a company of our size, and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover its technology. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our products can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. Without patent protection, those products might have to compete with identical products by competitors. In an effort to protect our unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how as trade secrets, we require our employees, consultants, collaborators and advisors to execute confidentiality agreements. These agreements, however, may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, in some situations, these agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants, collaborators or advisors have previous employment or consulting relationships. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S. 22 Table of Contents Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications that are infringed by our technologies or product candidates. Our success depends in part on our not infringing other parties’ patents and proprietary rights as well as not breaching any licenses relating to our technologies and product candidates. In the U.S., patent applications filed in recent years are confidential for 18 months, while older applications are not published until the patent issues. As a result, there may be patent applications of which we are unaware that will result in issued patents in our field, and avoiding patent infringement may be difficult. We may inadvertently infringe third party patents or patent applications. These third parties could bring claims against us, our collaborators or our licensors that, even if resolved in our favor, could cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if resolved against us, could additionally cause us to pay substantial damages. We may be required to pay substantial damages to a patent holder in an infringement case in the event of a finding of infringement. Under some circumstances in the U.S., these damages could be triple the actual damages the patent holder incurred, and we could be ordered to pay the costs and attorneys’ fees incurred by the patent holder. If we have supplied infringing products to third parties for marketing, or licensed third parties to manufacture, use or market infringing products, we may be obligated to indemnify these third parties for any damages they may be required to pay to the patent holder and for any losses the third parties may sustain themselves as the result of lost sales or damages paid to the patent holder. Further, if patent infringement suits are brought against us, our collaborators or our licensors, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of any infringing product in the country or countries covered by the patent we infringe, unless we can obtain a license from the patent holder. Such a license may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, particularly if the third party is developing or marketing a product competitive with the infringing product. Even if we, our collaborators or our licensors were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. In addition, payments under such licenses would reduce the earnings otherwise attributable to the specific products. Patent infringement cases often involve substantial legal expenses. For example, we are involved in two patent infringement lawsuits filed against us by PharmaStem. As of December 31, 2006, we have incurred total legal expenses of approximately $7.4 million related to these cases. Depending upon the results of PharmaStem’s appeal of the District Court’s decision to overturn the jury verdict against us in this case, and the extent to which we are required to litigate the second lawsuit brought by PharmaStem and any related appeals, we estimate that we could incur at least an additional $1.0 million to $5.0 million in litigation expenses. Any successful infringement action brought against us may also adversely affect marketing of the infringing product in other markets not covered by the infringement action, as well as our marketing of other products by us based on similar technology and may also delay the regulatory approval process for future product candidates. Furthermore, we may suffer adverse consequences from a successful infringement action against us even if the action is subsequently reversed on appeal, nullified through another action or resolved by settlement with the patent holder. The damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may be significant. As a result, any infringement action against us may harm our competitive position, be very costly and require significant time and attention of our key management and technical personnel. Our success will depend in part on establishing and maintaining effective strategic partnerships and collaborations. A key aspect of our business strategy is to establish strategic relationships in order to gain access to technology and critical raw materials, to expand or complement our research, development or commercialization capabilities, or to reduce the cost of developing or commercializing products on our own. While we are continually in discussions with a number of companies, universities, research institutions, cord blood banks and others to establish additional relationships and collaborations, we may not reach definitive agreements with any of them. Even if we enter into these arrangements, we may not be able to maintain these relationships or establish new ones in the future on acceptable terms. Furthermore, these arrangements may require us to grant certain rights to third parties, including exclusive marketing rights to one or more products, or may have other terms that are burdensome to us, and may involve the acquisition of our securities. Our partners may decide to develop alternative technologies either 23 Table of Contents on their own or in collaboration with others or commercialize or market competitive products in collaboration with others. If any of our partners terminate their relationship with us or fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization of our technology, potential products or existing products may be substantially delayed or adversely impacted. Our cell preservation activities are subject to regulations that may impose significant costs and restrictions on us. Cord blood preservation. The FDA has adopted good tissue practice regulations, or GTPs, that establish a comprehensive regulatory program for human cellular and tissue-based products. Our ViaCord service offering is subject to GTPs. We have registered with the FDA as an umbilical cord blood preservation service and we are subject to FDA inspection. We believe that we comply with GTPs, though we have not yet been inspected by the FDA. However, we may not be able to maintain this compliance or comply with future regulatory requirements that may be imposed on us, including product standards that may be developed. Unlike our business of private cord blood banking for related use, the collection, processing and storage of umbilical cord blood stem cells intended to be used in a recipient unrelated to the donor is regulated as biological products. In January 2007, the FDA published draft guidance document for comment that would require public cord blood banks to file BLAs. While the draft guidance does not currently apply to us, the FDA could decide to impose these requirements or others on our business. Moreover, the cost of compliance with government regulations may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. If the FDA were to require companies that bank umbilical cord blood for related use to comply with the recommendations set forth in the guidance, we would need to change certain of our processes. The costs of such changes or the cost of compliance with any other new requirements that may be imposed in the future could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Regulation of our cord blood preservation services in foreign jurisdictions is still evolving. We provide cord blood banking services in all 50 states. Several states currently require that cord blood services be licensed, permitted or registered. We believe that we are currently licensed, permitted or registered to operate in all states requiring us to be licensed, permitted or registered. If other states adopt requirements for the licensing, permitting or registration of cord blood preservation services, we would have to obtain licenses, permits or registration to continue providing services in those states. Oocyte cryopreservation. There are no established precedents for U.S. and international regulation of oocyte cryopreservation. The FDA has informed us that it will require a clinical study to support approval of the technology used in oocyte cryopreservation. In June 2006, the FDA gave us conditional approval of an IDE to allow our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate to be used in a clinical trial. We are currently planning to conduct a single, pivotal clinical trial to study the safety and efficacy of ViaCyte. We expect to initiate the pivotal clinical trial in March 2007. The goal of the clinical trial is to generate data to submit to the FDA for a 510(k) application. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete the clinical trial or that we will be able to show that our ViaCyte cryopreservation product candidate is safe and effective for its intended use. If we submit a new 510(k) and the FDA does not find the information adequate to support 510(k) clearance, the FDA could require us to obtain PMA to market ViaCyte. This requirement could substantially lengthen our planned developmental timeline and increase the costs of developing and commercializing ViaCyte. We may not receive either 510(k) clearance or PMA for ViaCyte. We believe that the time to conduct a clinical study, prepare a new 510(k), and receive FDA clearance for our oocyte cryopreservation product candidate will take several years. We have not investigated the regulations for the cryopreservation of oocytes in foreign jurisdictions. We may not be able to generate sufficient data to receive approval to market ViaCyte in the U.S. or any other jurisdictions. We have only limited experience manufacturing cell therapy product candidates, and we may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in quantities sufficient for clinical studies or for commercial scale. We currently produce limited quantities of stem cells using our technologies. We have not built commercial scale manufacturing facilities, and have no experience in manufacturing cellular products in the volumes that will be required for later stage clinical studies or commercialization. If we successfully obtain marketing approval for any products, we may not be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products at an acceptable cost. Commercial- 24 Table of Contents scale production of therapies made from live human cells involves production in small batches and management of complex logistics. Cellular therapies are inherently more difficult to manufacture at commercial-scale than chemical pharmaceuticals, which are manufactured using standardized production technologies and operational methods. We may encounter difficulties in production due to, among other things, quality control, quality assurance and component supply. These difficulties could reduce sales of our products, increase our costs or cause production delays, all of which could damage our reputation and hurt our profitability. We are dependent on our existing suppliers and establishing relationships with certain other suppliers to successfully commercialize our ViaCord service offering, for certain components of our product candidates and to manufacture and supply our ViaCyte product candidate. The loss of such suppliers or our inability to establish such relationships may inhibit our ability to commercialize ViaCord, delay development or limit our ability to manufacture our stem cell therapy products or our ViaCyte product candidate. In order to produce cells for use in clinical studies and produce stem cell products for commercial sale, certain biological components used in our production process will need to be manufactured in compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP. To meet this requirement, we will need to maintain supply agreements with third parties who manufacture these components to cGMP standards. Once we engage these third parties, we may be dependent on them for supply of cGMP grade components. If we are unable to obtain cGMP grade biological components for our product candidates, we may not be able to market our stem cell product candidates. Certain antibodies, growth factors and other reagents are critical components used in our stem cell production process. We depend on our suppliers to perform their obligations in a timely manner and in accordance with applicable government regulations. In the event that any of these suppliers becomes unwilling or unable to continue to supply necessary components for the manufacture of our stem cell products, we will need to repeat certain pre-clinical development work to identify and demonstrate the equivalence of alternative components purchased from other suppliers. If we are unable to demonstrate the equivalence of alternative components in a timely manner, or purchase these alternative components on commercially reasonable terms, development of our product candidates may be delayed and we may not be able to advance the development of our pre-clinical stem cell product candidates. We are utilizing Invitrogen, Inc. to manufacture, supply and package our ViaCyte product candidate for our clinical trial. We are dependent on Invitrogen and our relationships with component and testing service providers to satisfy all regulatory requirements and produce sufficient amounts of cGMP-quality product on commercially reasonable terms for the trial. Invitrogen has the ability to terminate its obligation to manufacture clinical supplies of ViaCyte under certain conditions including if it is unable for reasons outside of its control to consistently meet specifications or there is a change in specifications it cannot meet or due to an uncured material breach of the agreement by us. If ViaCyte is successfully developed, we will need to establish similar relationships for our commercial supply. In the event that we are unable to maintain a suitable contract manufacturer that is willing to produce such products on commercially reasonable terms or the contract manufacturer terminates or breaches its relationship with us or we encounter unexpected manufacturing hurdles or delays, we may not be able to complete our clinical trial or, if successfully developed, to commercialize our ViaCyte product candidate. We also source a substantial portion of the components of our ViaCord collection kits and processing and testing services from a concentrated group of third party contractors. The production of the collection kits and the processing and testing of cord blood units require successful coordination among us and multiple third party providers. Our inability to coordinate these efforts or any other problems with the operations of our third party contractors could increase our costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share, and damage our reputation. Some of the components of the ViaCord collection kits, including the Cell Sentinel bag, are produced by single source providers. For other components, we make every effort to qualify new vendors and to develop contingency plans so that our ViaCord business is not impacted by short-term issues associated with single source providers. Our business could be materially impacted by long-term or chronic issues associated with single source providers or other vendors. 25 Table of Contents If our cord blood processing and storage facility or our clinical manufacturing facilities are damaged or destroyed, our business, programs and prospects could be negatively affected. We process and store our customers’ umbilical cord blood at our facility in Hebron, Kentucky. If this facility or the equipment in the facility were to be significantly damaged or destroyed, we could suffer a loss of some or all of the stored cord blood units. Depending on the extent of loss, such an event could reduce our ability to provide cord blood stem cells when requested, could expose us to significant liability from our cord blood banking customers and could affect our ability to continue to provide umbilical cord blood preservation services. We expect to manufacture all of our stem cell product candidates in our Cambridge manufacturing facility for the next several years. If the Cambridge facility or the equipment in it is significantly damaged or destroyed, we may not be able to quickly or inexpensively replace our manufacturing capacity. In the event of a temporary or protracted loss of this facility or equipment, we may be able to transfer manufacturing to a third party, but the shift would likely be expensive, and the timing would depend on availability of third party resources and the speed with which we could have a new facility approved by the FDA. While we believe that we have insured against losses from damage to or destruction of our facilities consistent with typical industry practices, if we have underestimated our insurance needs, we will not have sufficient insurance to cover losses above and beyond the limits on our policies. Currently, we maintain insurance coverage totaling $22.2 million against damage to our property and equipment, and an additional $18.8 million to cover incremental expenses and loss of profits resulting from such damage. Our competitors may have greater resources or capabilities or better technologies than we have, or may succeed in developing better products or develop products more quickly than we do, and we may not be successful in competing with them. The private umbilical cord banking business is highly competitive. In private umbilical cord blood banking, we compete with companies such as Cbr Systems, Cryo-Cell International, Inc., CorCell, Inc., a subsidiary of Cord Blood America Inc., and LifeBank USA, a division of Celgene Cellular Therapeutics, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Celgene Corporation. Any of these companies may choose to invest more in sales, marketing, research and product development than we have. In cord blood banking, we also compete with public cord blood banks such as the New York Blood Center (National Cord Blood Program), University of Colorado Cord Blood Bank, Milan Cord Blood Bank, Düsseldorf Cord Blood Bank, and other public cord blood banks around the world. Public cord blood banks provide families with the option of donating their cord blood for public use at no cost. The Stem Cell Therapeutic Act provides financing for a national system of public cord blood banks in the U.S. to encourage cord blood donations from an ethnically diverse population. In addition, many states are evaluating the feasibility of establishing cord blood repositories for transplantation purposes. An increase in the number and diversity of publicly-available cord blood units from public banks would increase the probability of finding suitably matched cells for a family member, which may result in a decrease in the demand for private cord blood banking. If the science of human leukocyte antigens, or HLA, typing advances, then unrelated cord blood transplantation may become safer and more efficacious, similarly reducing the clinical advantage of related cord blood transplantation. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology businesses are also highly competitive. We compete with many organizations that are developing cell therapies for the treatment of a variety of human diseases, including companies such as Aastrom Biosciences, Inc., Cellerant Therapeutics, Inc., Celgene Corporation, Cytori Therapeutics, Inc., Gamida-Cell Ltd., Genzyme Corporation, Bioheart, Inc., and Osiris Therapeutics, Inc. We also face competition in the cell therapy field from academic institutions and governmental agencies. We are also aware that some larger pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies have programs in the cell therapy area. Some of these competitors and future competitors may have similar or better product candidates or technologies, greater financial and human resources than we have, including more experience in research and development and more established sales, marketing and distribution capabilities. In addition, public cord blood banks may, as a result of the Stem Cell Therapeutic Act, be able to better compete with our potential cell therapy products. An increase in the number and diversity of publicly-available cord blood units from public banks could diminish the necessity for cord blood-derived therapeutics. 26 Table of Contents In oocyte cryopreservation, if our ViaCyte product candidate is successfully developed and approved, we expect to compete with IVF centers and individual companies offering oocyte cryopreservation, including Extend Fertility. Current and future competitors in this field too may have greater financial and human resources than we have, and may have similar or better product candidates or technologies, or product candidates which are brought to the market more quickly than ours. Specifically, several IVF centers are already performing oocyte cryopreservation on a limited basis and Extend Fertility is offering related services, which may make it more difficult ViaCyte, if successfully developed and approved, to achieve a significant market share. We anticipate this competition to increase in the future as new companies enter the stem cell therapy, cord blood preservation and oocyte cryopreservation markets. In addition, the health care industry is characterized by rapid technological change. New product introductions or other technological advancements could make some or all of our product candidates obsolete. Due to the nature of our cell preservation activities, harm to our reputation could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. Damage to or loss of our customers’ property held in our custody could potentially result in significant legal liability. Our reputation among clients and the medical and birthing services community is extremely important to the commercial success of our ViaCord service offering. This is due in significant part to the nature of the service we provide. For instance, as part of our ViaCord service offering, we are assuming custodial care of a child’s umbilical cord blood stem cells entrusted to us by the parents for potential future use as a therapeutic for the child or its siblings. We believe that our reputation enables us to market ourselves as a premium provider of cord blood preservation among our competitors. While we seek to maintain high standards in all aspects of our provision of products and services, we cannot guarantee that we will not experience problems. Like family cord blood banks generally, we face the risk that a customer’s cord blood unit could be lost or damaged while in transit from the collection site to our storage facility, including while the unit is in the possession of third party commercial carriers used to transport the units. There is also risk of loss or damage to the unit during the preservation or storage process. Any such problems, particularly if publicized in the media or otherwise, could negatively impact our reputation, which could adversely affect our business and business prospects. In addition to reputational damage, we face the risk of legal liability for loss of or damage to cord blood units. We do not own the cord blood units banked by our ViaCord customers; instead, we act as custodian on behalf of the child-donor’s guardian. Loss or damage to the units would be loss or damage to the customer’s property. We cannot be sure to what extent we could be found liable, in any given scenario, for damages suffered by an owner or donor as a result of harm or loss of a cord blood unit, and if we are found liable, whether our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover such damages. The manufacture and sale of products may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products or product candidates are alleged or found to have caused injury. While we believe that our current liability insurance coverage is adequate for our present clinical and commercial activities, we will need to increase our insurance coverage if and when we begin commercializing additional products. We may not be able to obtain insurance with adequate coverage for potential liability arising from any such potential products on acceptable terms or may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we obtain. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain insurance or any claims against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. Our success is dependent upon recruiting and retaining qualified management and other personnel. Our success is highly dependent on the retention of the principal members of our scientific, management and sales personnel. Marc D. Beer, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is critical to our ability to execute our overall business strategy. Morey Kraus, our Chief Technology Officer and co-founder, has significant and unique expertise in stem cell expansion and related technologies. We maintain key man life insurance on the lives of 27 Table of Contents Mr. Beer and Mr. Kraus. Additionally, we have several other employees with scientific or other skills that we consider important to the successful commercialization of our products and development of our technology. Any of our key employees could terminate his or her relationship with us at any time and, despite any non-competition agreement with us, work for one of our competitors. Furthermore, our future growth will require hiring a significant number of qualified technical, commercial and administrative personnel. Accordingly, recruiting and retaining such personnel in the future will be critical to our success. There is intense competition from other companies, universities and other research institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we are not able to continue to attract and retain, on acceptable terms, the qualified personnel necessary for the continued development of our business, we may not be able to sustain our operations or achieve our business objectives. We may face difficulties in managing and maintaining the growth of our business. We expect to continue expanding our reproductive health business and our research and development activities. This expansion could put significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. To manage future growth, we would need to hire, train and manage additional employees. Our reporting obligations as a public company, as well as our need to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ Global Market, place significant demands on our finance and accounting staff, on our financial, accounting and information systems and on our internal controls. We have increased the number of our accounting and finance personnel and have taken steps to proactively monitor our networks and to improve our financial, accounting and information systems and internal controls in order to fulfill our responsibilities as a public company and to support growth in our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems procedures and controls will be adequate to support our anticipated growth or that management will be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. Our failure to manage growth effectively could limit our ability to achieve our research and development and commercialization goals or to satisfy our reporting and other obligations as a public company. Our business could be disrupted or harmed and we could be subject to liability if we are unable to operate our information systems effectively, successfully implement new technologies and protect the confidentiality of our or our customers’ data. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to successfully implement new technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our customers’ data, including credit card information. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, harm our reputation and/or subject us to liability, any of which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we acquire other businesses or technologies the transactions may be dilutive and we may be unable to integrate them successfully with our business, our financial performance could suffer. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire other businesses. We have had limited experience in acquiring and integrating other businesses. Since our incorporation in 1994, we have acquired three businesses: Viacord, Inc. in 2000, Cerebrotec, Inc. in 2001 and Kourion Therapeutics AG in 2003. The integration process following any future acquisitions may produce unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. In any future acquisitions, we may issue shares of stock dilutive to existing stockholders, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities, or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets, any of which might harm our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Any financing we might need for future acquisitions may be available to us only on terms that restrict our business or impose costs that increase our net loss. 28 Table of Contents The successful commercialization of products may depend on patients and physicians obtaining reimbursement for products from third party payers. If we successfully develop and obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our therapeutic product candidates, we intend to sell such products initially in the U.S. and, potentially, outside the U.S. In the U.S., the market for many pharmaceutical products is affected by the availability of reimbursement from third party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies. Our potential cellular therapy products may be relatively expensive treatments due to the higher cost of production and more complex logistics of cellular products compared with standard pharmaceuticals. This, in turn, may make it more difficult for patients and physicians to obtain adequate reimbursement from third party payers, particularly if we cannot demonstrate a favorable cost-benefit relationship. Third-party payers may also deny coverage or offer inadequate levels of reimbursement for our potential products if they determine that the product has not received appropriate clearances from the FDA or other government regulators or is experimental, unnecessary or inappropriate. In the countries of the European Union and in some other countries, the pricing of prescription pharmaceutical products and services and the level of government reimbursement are subject to governmental control. Managing and reducing health care costs has been a concern generally of federal and state governments in the U.S. and of foreign governments. Although we do not believe that any recently enacted or presently proposed legislation should impact our business, we cannot be sure that we will not be subject to future regulations that may materially restrict the price we receive for our products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we may develop in the future. In addition, third party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services, and any of our potential products may ultimately not be considered cost-effective by these payers. Any of these initiatives or developments could materially harm our business. If our potential cell therapy products are not reimbursed by government or third party insurers, the market for those products would be limited. We cannot be sure that third party payers will reimburse sales of a product or enable us or our partners to sell the product at prices that will provide a sustainable and profitable revenue stream. Although we are aware of a small fraction of ViaCord customers receiving reimbursement, we believe our ViaCord service offering, like other private cord blood banking, is not generally subject to reimbursement. We do not currently believe that our ViaCyte product candidate will be subject to reimbursement. In cases of preserving eggs for fertility preservation for cancer patients, it is unknown at this time if it will be covered. We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from research collaborators or from providers who enroll patients and collect cord blood or human oocytes. Our business relies on the acquisition, analysis, and storage of potentially sensitive information about individuals’ health, both in our research activities and in our reproductive health product and service offerings. These data are protected by numerous federal and state privacy laws. Most health care providers, including research collaborators from whom we obtain patient information, are subject to privacy regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. Although we ourselves are not directly regulated by HIPAA, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a health care provider who has not satisfied HIPAA’s disclosure standards. In addition, certain state privacy laws and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and impose restrictions on our use and dissemination of individuals’ health information. Moreover, patients about whom we obtain information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. Claims that we have violated individuals’ privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. 29 Table of Contents Ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of stem cell therapy may negatively affect regulatory approval or public perception of our products and product candidates, thereby reducing demand for our products and product candidates. The use of embryonic stem cells for research and stem cell therapy has been the subject of debate regarding related ethical, legal and social issues. Although we do not currently use embryonic stem cells as a source for our research programs, the use of other types of human stem cells for therapy could give rise to similar ethical, legal and social issues as those associated with embryonic stem cells. The commercial success of our product candidates will depend in part on public acceptance of the use of stem cell therapy, in general, for the prevention or treatment of human diseases. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that stem cell therapy is unsafe, and stem cell therapy may not gain the acceptance of the public or the medical community. Adverse events in the field of stem cell therapy that may occur in the future also may result in greater governmental regulation of our product candidates and potential regulatory delays relating to the testing or approval of our product candidates. In the event that our research becomes the subject of adverse commentary or publicity, the market price for our common stock could be significantly harmed. Our business involves the use of hazardous materials that could expose us to environmental and other liability. We have facilities in Massachusetts, Kentucky and Singapore that are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, the experimental use of animals and the use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including chemicals, micro-organisms and various radioactive compounds used in connection with our research and development activities. In the U.S., these laws include the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Toxic Test Substances Control Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by these regulations, we cannot assure you that accidental contamination or injury to employees and third parties from these materials will not occur. We do not have insurance to cover claims arising from our use and disposal of these hazardous substances other than limited clean-up expense coverage for environmental contamination due to an otherwise insured peril, such as fire. Volatility of Our Stock Price. The market price for our common stock is highly volatile, and likely will continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including: • material public announcements; • the data, positive or negative, generated from the development of our product candidates; • setbacks or delays in any of our development programs; • the outcome of material litigation; • the financial results achieved by our cord blood preservation business; • the impact of competition; • unusual or unexpectedly high expenses; • developments related to patents and other proprietary rights; • market trends affecting stock prices in our industry; and • economic or other external factors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 