Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report, as well as other factors which may be identified from time to time in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, or in the documents where such forward-looking statements appear. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our: · expectations for increases or decreases in expenses; · expectations for the development, manufacturing, regulatory approval, and commercialization of SulonexTM (sulodexide), ZerenexTM (ferric citrate), KRX-0401 (perifosine), and our additional product candidates or any other products we may acquire or in-license; · expectations for incurring capital expenditures to expand our research and development and manufacturing capabilities; · expectations for generating revenue or becoming profitable on a sustained basis; · expectations or ability to enter into marketing and other partnership agreements; · expectations or ability to enter into product acquisition and in-licensing transactions; · expectations or ability to build our own commercial infrastructure to manufacture, market and sell our drug candidates; · estimates of the sufficiency of our existing cash and cash equivalents and investments to finance our business strategy; · expected losses; and · expectations for future capital requirements. The forward-looking statements contained in this report reflect our views and assumptions only as of the date this report is signed. Except as required by law, we assume no responsibility for updating any forward-looking statements. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. In addition, with respect to all of our forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 1 PART I Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to “Keryx,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., our predecessor company and our respective subsidiaries. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. OVERVIEW We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the acquisition, development and commercialization of medically important, novel pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening diseases, including diabetes and cancer. Our lead compound under development is Sulonex™ (sulodexide), which we previously referred to as KRX-101, a first-in-class, oral heparinoid compound for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, a life-threatening kidney disease caused by diabetes. Sulonex is in a pivotal Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical program under a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, with the Food & Drug Administration, or FDA. Additionally, we are developing Zerenex™ (ferric citrate), an oral, iron-based compound that has the capacity to bind to phosphate and form non-absorbable complexes. Zerenex is currently in Phase 2 clinical development for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia (elevated phosphate levels) in patients with end-stage renal disease, or ESRD. We are also developing clinical-stage oncology compounds, including KRX-0401 (perifosine), a novel, potentially first-in-class, oral anti-cancer agent that modulates Akt, a protein in the body associated with tumor survival and growth. KRX-0401 also modulates a number of other key signal transduction pathways, including the JNK and MAPK pathways, which are pathways associated with programmed cell death, cell growth, cell differentiation and cell survival. KRX-0401 is currently in Phase 2 clinical development for multiple tumor types and we expect to move into a Phase 3 clinical program in 2008. We also have an active in-licensing and acquisition program designed to identify and acquire additional drug candidates. To date, we have not received approval for the sale of any of our drug candidates in any market and, therefore, have not generated any product sales from our drug candidates. The table below summarizes the status of our product pipeline. Each of these drugs is discussed more fully under the heading “Products under Development.” Product candidate Target indication Development status Endocrine/Renal Sulonex™ (sulodexide) Diabetic nephropathy Phase 3 & Phase 4 Zerenex™ (ferric citrate) Hyperphosphatemia in patients withend-stage renal disease Phase 2 Oncology KRX-0401 (perifosine) Renal cancer and other multiple forms of cancer Phase 2 KRX-0402 (O6-benzylguanine) or (O6-BG) Brain cancer Phase 2 KRX-0601 (7-hydroxystaurosporine) Multiple forms of cancer Phase 2 KRX-0404 (ErPC) Multiple forms of cancer Pre-clinical Neurology KRX-0701 (dexlipotam) Diabetic neuropathy Phase 2 KRX-0501 Neurological disorders Phase 1 OUR STRATEGY Our mission is to create long-term shareholder value by acquiring, developing and commercializing medically important, novel pharmaceutical products for the treatment of life-threatening diseases, including diabetes and cancer. Our strategy to achieve this mission is to: ● seek to acquire medically important, novel drug candidates in late pre-clinical or early clinical development; ● utilize our clinical development capabilities to manage and drive our drug candidates through the clinical development process to approval; and ● commercialize our drug candidates, either alone or in partnership, which we believe is important to provide maximum shareholder value. 2 Under our strategy, we currently plan over the next twelve months to: ● complete the analysis of our pivotal Phase 3 trial and continue our Phase 4 program for Sulonex; ● prepare a New Drug Application for Sulonex (sulodexide) for filing with the FDA; ● if we meet the primary objective of our pivotal Phase 3 trial for Sulonex, develop the commercial infrastructure required to manufacture, market and sell our drug candidates following approval, if any, by the FDA; ● launch a Phase 3 study for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma; ● continue to build our clinical development and regulatory capabilities and conduct additional pre-clinical, toxicology and clinical trials for our portfolio products, including Zerenex, KRX-0401, KRX-0402, KRX-0501, KRX-0601 and KRX-0701; and ● seek to in-license or acquire additional compounds. CORPORATE INFORMATION We were incorporated in Delaware in October 1998. We commenced operations in November 1999, following our acquisition of substantially all of the assets and certain of the liabilities of Partec Ltd., our predecessor company that began its operations in January 1997. Our executive offices are located at 750 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022. Our telephone number is 212-531-5965, and our e-mail address is info@keryx.com. We maintain a website with the address www.keryx.com. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, nor incorporating it by reference into, this report. PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Endocrine/Renal Sulonex™ (sulodexide) Overview Our lead compound under development is Sulonex (sulodexide), which we previously referred to as KRX-101. We own the exclusive rights to develop, market and sell Sulonex for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy in North America, Japan and certain other markets outside of Europe. Diabetic nephropathy is a long-term complication of diabetes in which the kidneys are progressively damaged. Sulonex is a glycosaminoglycan compound with structural similarities to the broad family of marketed heparins and low molecular weight heparins. This drug has been marketed in a number of European, Asian and South American countries for many years by our licensor for certain cardiovascular conditions and has an established safety profile at the doses used for such indications. Additionally, it has been observed in several clinical trials conducted in Europe and the U.S., including two randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 studies, that Sulonex can reduce urinary protein excretion in patients with diabetic nephropathy. Sulonex is in a pivotal Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical program under an SPA with the FDA. These trials are being conducted by the Collaborative Study Group, or the CSG, the world’s largest standing renal clinical trials group. The Phase 3 trial was completed in the first quarter of 2008. We plan to develop Sulonex in the United States, and possibly other countries where we have exclusive license rights, for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy and potentially for other indications. 3 Market Opportunity According to the American Diabetes Association, or the ADA, there are 20.8 million people in the United States (approximately 7% of the population) who have diabetes. Of this population, approximately 14.6 million have been diagnosed with diabetes, of whom approximately 90-95% have been diagnosed with Type II diabetes. Type II diabetes results from the combination of insulin deficiency and the body's relative insensitivity to the insulin present, as opposed to Type I diabetes, in which severe insulin deficiency results from destruction of the insulin-producing beta cells of the pancreas. Moreover, the ADA estimates that approximately 40% of all diabetics in the United States, or approximately eight million people, have diabetic nephropathy. Capoten® (captopril), an Angiotension Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACE), and Avapro® (irbesartan) and Cozaar® (losartan), Angiotension Receptor Blockers (ARBs), are the only prescription pharmaceutical therapies currently approved to treat diabetic nephropathy in the United States. Despite treatment with these medications, progression of diabetic nephropathy continues in a significant percentage of patients reflecting an unmet medical need. Diabetes is the most common cause of ESRD in the United States and in many other developed nations, and represents approximately 45% of all new cases of ESRD in the United States. Despite advances in clinical care, including improvements in glycemic or blood sugar control and blood pressure control, the number of Type I and Type II diabetes-related cases of ESRD continues to rise. In particular, the incidence of Type II diabetes-related ESRD is rapidly increasing. Approximately 20% of diabetics on dialysis in the United States survive for five years, making the mortality of end-stage renal failure in this group higher than most forms of cancer. Unfortunately, renal transplantation is an option for less than 15% of diabetics with ESRD, as compared to 35-40% of non-diabetics, principally due to age and concomitant vascular disease. Despite recent advances, diabetic nephropathy remains a potentially catastrophic illness for which partial but insufficient treatment is currently available. Scientific Background Both Type I and Type II diabetes are characterized by insufficient insulin effect upon insulin-requiring tissues. As insulin is required for normal metabolism of glucose, fat and protein, diabetes is accompanied by abnormal blood levels of these substances. In the short term, hyperglycemia, or elevated blood glucose, causes the classic symptoms of diabetes: excessive thirst, frequent urination and weight loss. In the long term, hyperglycemia, as well as other effects resulting from insufficient insulin effect, can progressively damage critical anatomic structures resulting in chronic diabetic complications. We are developing Sulonex for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, a long-term complication of diabetes in which the kidneys are progressively damaged. This progressive damage could result in diminished kidney function and progress to ESRD, which ultimately leads to death unless treated by dialysis and/or renal transplant. The kidney consists of two anatomically and functionally distinct components placed in serial configuration. The first component is the glomerulus, which performs the critical filtering function of the kidney. Blood is passed through delicate microscopic glomerular capillary loops, which, acting as sieves, allow waste chemicals and excess water to pass through into the glomerular filtrate while retaining desirable components, such as blood cells and albumin, within the blood. One of the key components of the glomerular capillary filtering membrane is highly anionic, or negatively charged, glycosaminoglycan molecules that are similar to the chemical components of Sulonex. The glomerular filtrate, the precursor of what will eventually be excreted as urine, flows into the next serial component, which is the tubular interstitial structure. In the tubules, further water is extracted from the filtrate and minerals and other body chemicals are absorbed from or secreted into the filtrate. In patients who have diabetic nephropathy, it is the delicate glomerular loops that first sustain damage as a result of the diabetic state. These harmful effects include: · The delicate filtering membranes of the glomerular loops thicken and their crucial anionic glycosaminoglycan molecules are either depleted or altered and lose some or all of their negative charge. Since the negative charge of the glycosaminoglycan components is believed to provide selectivity to the filtration process by the glomerular membranes, this loss of negative charge results in the release of protein, usually albumin, from the blood into the filtrate and urine. The release of abnormal amounts of protein or albumin into the urine is called proteinuria or albuminuria, respectively. · In addition, hyperglycemia induced overproduction of TGF beta, a regulatory protein, by the kidney induces the accumulation of Type IV collagen resulting in scar formation in the area surrounding the glomerular capillaries. Over time, the extrinsic pressure of this scar tissue causes collapse of individual glomeruli, loss of functionality and release of albumin into the filtrate and urine. In normally functioning kidneys, it is believed that interstitial structures are exposed to limited amounts of albumin. It is believed that the exposure of the interstitial structures to excessive albumin ultimately leads to a potent inflammatory and scarring response (mediated in part by TGF beta) in the tubules, as well as in the surrounding interstitial tissues. This scarring results in progressive diminution in kidney function. As might be expected, increasing urinary albumin excretion closely parallels this drop in kidney function. In ESRD, kidney function declines to the point where dialysis or transplantation becomes necessary to sustain life. 4 Clinical Data European Clinical Data In Europe, there have been more than 20 studies published assessing the safety and efficacy of Sulonex in humans. Sulonex has been administered to more than 3,000 patients in clinical trials conducted in Europe for the treatment of certain diabetic and non-diabetic conditions and, to our knowledge, has not demonstrated any significant side effects at the doses tested for those uses. European researchers, with the support of Alfa Wassermann S.p.A., or Alpha Wasserman, the licensor of Sulonex, conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study of the use of Sulonex to treat diabetic nephropathy in 223 patients in Europe between 1996 and 1999. In this study, also known as the DiNAS study, Type I and Type II diabetics with diabetic nephropathy were treated daily for four months with 50, 100 and 200 milligram gelcaps of Sulonex. These patients showed substantial dose-dependent reduction in proteinuria or pathological urinary albumin excretion rates. In this study, the higher the dose administered daily, the greater the demonstrated decrease in albumin excretion versus placebo. The DiNAS study was published in the June 2002 issue of the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology. U.S.-based Clinical Data Our U.S.-based pilot Phase 2 multi-center clinical study was conducted by the CSG. This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compared two doses (200 mg and 400 mg daily) of Sulonex versus placebo for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy in 149 patients between 2003 and 2005. In June 2007, at the American Diabetes Association Annual Meeting, the CSG presented, in a poster presentation, the final Phase 2 data from the U.S.-based pilot Phase 2 multi-center clinical study. Most recently, the results of the study were published in Nephrology Dialysis Transplantation in December, 2007. The design and results of the study are discussed below. Design of the Phase 2 Study The Phase 2 study was designed as a pilot for the fully-powered pivotal SUN-MICRO Phase 3 study. In this Phase 2 study, two doses of Sulonex (200 mg and 400 mg) were compared to placebo in diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria on therapy with the maximum approved or tolerated dose of an ACE, or an ARB. Patients were treated with Sulonex or placebo for six months and followed for an additional two months post-treatment. Patients were randomized 1:1:1, placebo, 200 mg and 400 mg of Sulonex, respectively. In this Phase 2 study, the primary endpoint for the study was the percentage of patients achieving “Therapeutic Success” at six months. This is also the endpoint in the protocol for the Phase 3 clinical trial, and which was agreed to with the FDA under an SPA. A patient is considered a Therapeutic Success if they achieve one of the following outcomes following the six months in the study: (1) 50% reduction in albumin to creatinine ratio or ACR (ACR is a standard measurement used to assess the level of kidney disease in these patients. ACR measures the level of albumin protein in urine, also referred to as albuminuria), or (2) Normalization of ACR with at least a 25% reduction in ACR (in this study the normal laboratory range for albuminuria was defined as less than 20mg of albumin to 1g of creatinine). 5 Phase 2 Study Results A total of 149 patients were randomized into one of three groups (47 patients to placebo, 50 patients to 200 mg/day of sulodexide, and 52 patients to 400 mg/day of sulodexide) and administered study medication (All-Patient Treated Group). Out of the 149 patients in the All-Patient Treated Group (APT), 130 patients were included in the Intent-to-Treat (ITT) analysis at the end of the treatment period (six months). Nineteen patients were excluded from the ITT analysis due to the presence of a urinary tract infection and/or a missing baseline urinary albumin creatinine ratio (uACR) data. The results for the primary composite endpoint of “Therapeutic Success” (defined as normalization with a 25% reduction in the urinary albumin creatinine ratio or a 50% reduction in the urinary albumin creatinine ratio) for the ITT group at six months (end of treatment phase) is shown in the table below: Table 1—Percent of Patients Achieving Therapeutic Success 6 Months (End of Treatment) Placebo 200 mg/day sulodexide 400 mg/day sulodexide Number of Patients 39 42 49 Number of Patients with Therapeutic Success at 6 Months 6 14 9 Proportion or Percentage 15.4% 33.3% 18.4% 95% Confidence Interval 6% - 31% 20% - 50% 9% - 32% The Phase 2 trial was not powered to obtain definitive results for efficacy. However, observed trends were consistent with the hypothesis that administration of sulodexide (at 200 mg/day) is associated with a decreased urine albumin excretion in the patient population studied (table 2 below) and an increase in the number of patients achieving Therapeutic Success, defined as the achievement of normoalbuminuria or 50% decrease in albuminuria, and that effect appeared to be maintained for two months after cessation of therapy (table 4 below). Table 2—Trend for Increased Rate of Therapeutic Success1 Treatment Comparison Outcome % of Outcome Placebo % of Outcome 200 mg/day Odds Ratio p Values 200 mg/day vs. Placebo Normalization 7.7 % 16.7 % 2.40 0.315 200 mg/day vs. Placebo 50% Reduction 12.8 % 28.6 % 2.72 0.105 200 mg/day vs. Placebo Therapeutic Success 15.4 % 33.3 % 2.75 0.075 (1) 95% confidence interval for therapeutic success at six month for the Odds ratio was 0.84 to 9.83. Table 3—Mean Albumin to Creatinine Ratio over Time Treatment Group Baseline 2-Month 4-Month 6-Month (End of Treatment) Post- Treatment Placebo (n=39) 73 70 78 85 87 200 mg/day (n=42) 74 58 65 57 66 400 mg/day (n=49) 67 70 67 73 74 Table 4—Percent of Patients Achieving Therapeutic Success at Eight Months (Two Months Post-Treatment) Placebo n=38 200 mg/day sulodexide n=41 400 mg/day sulodexide n=46 Proportion or Percentage 7.9% 22.0% 13.0% 95% Confidence Interval 1.7% - 21.4% 10.6% - 37.6% 4.9% - 26.3% 6 The number of patients with at least one adverse event of any type, a serious adverse event or possibly related adverse event is shown in the table below. Table 5—Adverse Event Data Any Adverse Event Serious Adverse Event Possibly Related Adverse Event Treatment N % of Patients N of Events N % of Patients N of Events N % of Patients N of Events Placebo (n=47) 38 81 % 102 4 9 % 4 5 11 % 9 200 mg/d (n=50) 46 92 % 174 16 36 % 20 7 14 % 11 400 mg/d (n=52) 42 81 % 114 4 10 % 4 11 21 % 14 During this study, the following coagulation parameters were assessed prior to dosing (baseline) and at the end of treatment (6-month): fibrinogen, APTT, INR ratio, and prothrombin time (PT). There were no significant changes in the coagulation parameters for placebo, 200 mg/day of sulodexide and 400 mg/day of sulodexide when comparing mean endpoint values to mean baseline values for the parameters assessed. Development Status In June 2000, we filed an investigational new drug application, or IND, with the FDA for permission to conduct a clinical trial for the treatment of patients with diabetic nephropathy. In 2001, Sulonex was granted Fast-Track designation for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, and, in 2002, we announced that the FDA had agreed, in principle, to permit us to avail ourselves of the accelerated approval process under subpart H of the FDA’s regulations governing applications for the approval to market a new drug. Generally, subpart H, which allows for the use of surrogate endpoints in Phase 3 trials to support the approval of an NDA with confirmatory studies completed post-approval, could greatly reduce the development time to market. In the third quarter of 2003, we announced that the CSG would conduct the U.S.-based Phase 2/3 clinical program for Sulonex for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. The CSG has conducted multiple large-scale clinical trials resulting in over 40 publications in peer-reviewed journals. In addition, the CSG conducted the pivotal studies for two of the three drugs, including an ACE inhibitor and an ARB that are currently approved for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. In the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated the Phase 2 portion of our Phase 2/3 clinical program for Sulonex, and in the third quarter of 2004, we completed the target enrollment for the Phase 2 portion of the clinical program. The results of the Phase 2 are presented above under the caption “Phase 2 Study Results.” In January 2005, we announced that the CSG recommended that we proceed to the Phase 3 portion of our Phase 2/3 clinical program of Sulonex. This recommendation was based on the completion, by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Committee, or DSMC, on January 4, 2005, of a safety evaluation of the first interim analysis from the 149 patient, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trial of Sulonex discussed above, and an efficacy assessment of the same data set conducted by the CSG. In March 2005, we announced that we had finalized an SPA agreement with the FDA for the Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical trials of Sulonex. In June 2005, we announced the initiation of our pivotal Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical program for Sulonex. We are conducting both of these trials under our SPA with the FDA. This clinical plan consists of: a single Phase 3 trial in patients with microalbuminuria based on the surrogate marker of regression of microalbuminuria as the primary endpoint; supportive data from previously conducted clinical studies; and substantial recruitment into our Phase 4 confirmatory study that will measure clinical outcomes in patients with overt nephropathy, or macroalbuminuria. The Phase 3 portion of the program is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study comparing a 200 milligram daily dose of Sulonex versus a placebo in patients with persistent microalbuminuria. The Phase 4 portion of the program is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study comparing a 200 milligram daily dose of Sulonex versus a placebo in patients with persistent macroalbuminuria. The CSG is conducting the pivotal Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical program of Sulonex for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. 7 In November 2005, we announced final results from our Phase 2 study of Sulonex for diabetic nephropathy at the American Society of Nephrology’s (ASN) Renal Week. Interim results from this study had been previously announced at the National Kidney Foundation's Spring Clinical Meeting in May 2005. The Phase 2 study is discussed above under “U.S.- based Clinical Data.” In June 2007, final results from this study were the subject of a poster presentation at the American Diabetes Association meeting. In November 2006, we announced that the DSMC responsible for monitoring Sulonex in the Phase 3 microalbuminuria and Phase 4 macroalbuminuria studies met. Following a review of the blinded and unblinded data from both studies, the DSMC concluded that it saw no cogent reason to recommend alteration or termination of either trial. The DSMC raised no safety concerns regarding Sulonex or the trials. In February 2007, we announced that we had completed the enrollment portion of the Phase 3 clinical trial. In March 2007, we announced that the DSMC responsible for monitoring Sulonex in the Phase 3 microalbuminuria and Phase 4 macroalbuminuria studies met again. Following a review of the blinded and unblinded data from both studies, the DSMC once again concluded that there is no cogent reason to recommend alteration or termination of either trial. The DSMC raised no safety concerns regarding Sulonex or the trials. In June 2007, we announced the randomization of the last patient in our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of Sulonex for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, concluding randomization with a total of 1,056 randomized patients worldwide. In December 2007, we announced that the DSMC responsible for monitoring Sulonex in the Phase 3 microalbuminuria and Phase 4 macroalbuminuria studies met to evaluate the data from the ongoing Phase 3 trial. Following a complete review of all available safety and efficacy data, the DSMC found no cogent reason to recommend alteration or termination of the Phase 3 trial. The DSMC raised no safety concerns regarding Sulonex or the trial. In the first quarter of 2008, the Phase 3 trial was completed. Assuming a positive outcome from our Phase 3 trial, we are targeting an NDA filing for Sulonex (sulodexide) by the end of 2008. The ultimate clinical timeline, and consequent cost, for further development of Sulonex will depend, in part, on the successful completion and outcomes of our Phase 3/4 trials, and ultimate approval, if any, by the FDA. Zerenex™ (ferric citrate) Overview Zerenex (ferric citrate) is an oral, iron-based compound that has the capacity to bind to phosphate and form non-absorbable complexes. Zerenex is currently in Phase 2 clinical development for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia (elevated serum phosphorous levels) in patients with ESRD. Market Opportunity In the U.S., according to data from the U.S. Renal Data System, there are approximately 485,000 patients with end-stage renal disease, or ESRD, and the number of ESRD patients is projected to rise 60% to approximately 785,000 by 2020. The vast majority of ESRD patients, over 350,000, require dialysis. Phosphate retention and the resulting hyperphosphatemia in patients with ESRD on dialysis are usually associated with secondary hyperparathyroidism, renal osteodystrophy, soft tissue mineralization and the progression of renal failure. ESRD patients usually require treatment with phosphate-binding agents to lower and maintain serum phosphorus at acceptable levels. Aluminum-type phosphate binders were widely used in the past. However, the systemic absorption of aluminum from these agents and the potential toxicity associated with their use no longer make this type of binder a viable treatment option. 8 Calcium-type phosphate binders are commonly used to bind dietary phosphate; however, they promote positive net calcium balance and an increased risk of metastatic calcification in many patients, especially in those patients taking vitamin D analogs and those with adynamic bone disease. Non-calcium-based, non-absorbed phosphate binders, including sevelamer hydrochloride and sevelamer carbonate are among the most prescribed phosphate binders in the U.S. Compared to the calcium-type binders, fewer coronary and aortic calcifications have been documented, however, there is a risk of metabolic acidosis with sevelamer hydrochloride, the potential for gastrointestinal problems, and sevelamer can affect concomitant vitamin K and vitamin D treatment. Lanthanum-type phosphate binders are another alternative. Lanthanum is a rare earth element and is minimally absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract. Lower level tissue deposition, particularly in bone and liver, has been observed in animals. However, the long-term effects due to the accumulation of lanthanum in these tissues have not been clearly determined. The need for alternative phosphate-binding agents has long been recognized, especially given the increasing prevalence of ESRD as well as shortcomings with current therapies. Zerenex has the potential to be an effective and safe treatment in lowering and/or maintaining serum phosphorus levels <5.5 mg/dL in patients with ESRD and hyperphosphatemia. Clinical Data In June 2006, we announced final results from the Phase 2 multi- center study entitled: “A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose ranging study of the effects of Zerenex on serum phosphate in patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD).” This Phase 2 study was conducted under an IND sponsored by our licensors in both the United States and Taiwan. From this Phase 2 study, the investigators concluded that Zerenex appeared to have an acceptable safety and tolerability profile at the 2, 4, and 6g/day dose. The optimum dose of Zerenex in this study was 6g/day at which it appeared to be efficacious, safe and well tolerated as treatment for hyperphosphatemia in hemodialysis patients. Additionally, the investigators found that Zerenex therapy for up to 28 days had no statistically significant effect on serum iron, ferritin, transferrin saturation, or total iron binding capacity. The Phase 2 study was designed to determine the safety and efficacy of several doses of Zerenex in patients with ESRD who were undergoing hemodialysis. In this study, each of three Zerenex doses (2g, 4g and 6g) administered daily with meals was compared to placebo. Patients who had been on other phosphate binders prior to enrolling in this study underwent a 1-2-week washout period prior to randomization. Patients who had a serum phosphorous level greater than or equal to 5.5 mg/dl and less than or equal to 10 mg/dl by the end of this washout period were eligible to be randomized to one of four treatment groups at a ratio of 2:2:2:1, (Zerenex 2g, 4g, 6g and placebo, respectively) and were treated for 28 days. The primary endpoint for this study was the change in serum phosphorous concentration at day 28 relative to baseline. Of the 116 patients randomized in the study, 111 patients were evaluable for efficacy at 28 days and were included in the analysis. At day 28, there was a statistically significant dose response to Zerenex in reducing serum phosphorous concentration (p=0.0073). In the 6g/day Zerenex group the mean decrease in serum phosphorous concentration was statistically significant when compared with placebo (p=0.0119) (see Table 1). There was also a statistically significant dose response to Zerenex in the calcium x phosphorous (Ca x P) product at day 28 (p=0.0158). In the 6g/day Zerenex group the mean decrease in Ca x P product when compared with placebo was statistically significant (p=0.0378) (See Table 2). Table 1: Changes in Serum Phosphorous Concentration (mg/dL) on day 28 compared to day 0 (baseline) at Zerenex doses of 2, 4 and 6 g/day. Placebo (n=16) 2g/day (n=31) 4g/day (n=32) 6g/day (n=32) Day 0 (Baseline)* 7.2 (1.4 ) 7.2 (1.2 ) 7.1 (1.3 ) 7.3 (1.3 ) Day 28 (End of Treatment Period)* 7.2 (1.2 ) 6.9 (2.2 ) 6.0 (1.3 ) 5.8 (1.8 ) Placebo Comparison: Mean Difference from Placebo -0.02 -1.1 -1.5 P-value NS 0.06 0.0119 Baseline Comparison: Mean Difference from Baseline -0.1 -0.3 -1.1 -1.5 P-value NS NS NS <0.01 *mean (standard deviation) Table 2: Changes in the Calcium x Phosphorous (mg/dL) on day 28 compared to day 0 (baseline) at Zerenex doses of 2, 4 and 6 g/day. Placebo (n=16) 2g/day (n=31) 4g/day (n=32) 6g/day (n=32) Day 0 (Baseline)* 62.8 (13.9 ) 62.9 (13.2 ) 63.5 (10.7 ) 65.8 (12.2 ) Day 28 (End of Treatment Period)* 63.2 (12.6 ) 61.7 (21.3 ) 55.4 (13.4 ) 54.1 (17.7 ) Placebo Comparison: Mean Difference from Placebo -0.9 -7.91 -11.4 P-value 0.8950 0.1375 0.0378 Baseline Comparison: Mean Difference from Baseline -0.3 -1.1 -8.1 -11.7 P-value NS NS NS <0.01 *mean (standard deviation) 9 There were no deaths over the course of the 28 day study and there were no serious adverse events that were deemed by the investigators to be related to Zerenex. The majority of adverse events were of mild severity. Seven (43.8%), 13 (39.4%), 9 (26.5%), and 14 (42.4%) patients in the placebo, 2, 4, and 6g treatment groups, respectively, experienced no adverse events more severe than mild, and 1 (6.3%), 0 (0.0%), 2 (5.9%), 1 (3.0%), of the placebo, 2,4, and 6 grams per day groups, respectively, experienced at least one severe adverse event. Possibly or probably related adverse effects occurred in 4 (25.0%), 7 (21.2%), 8 (23.5%), and 7 (21.2%) of the placebo, 2, 4, and 6 grams per day groups, respectively. In addition, Zerenex has been studied in two previous Phase 2 clinical trials using single fixed dose regimens. In both studies, Zerenex was able to significantly reduce serum phosphorous (p <.005), and the degree of reduction appeared to be generally comparable to calcium-based products which were used as positive control arms in those studies. The study was not designed to compare Zerenex to calcium-based products, therefore, no formal assessment can be made of the comparative efficacy. See Tables 3 and 4 below. Table 3—Effects on Serum Phosphorus at 4 Weeks (n=28) Open Label, Randomized, Parallel Groups, 2 sites Serum Phosphorous Baseline (mg/dL) End-Point (Four Weeks) (mg/dL) Change from Baseline Ferric Citrate (Zerenex™) (4.5 g/day) 7.2 +/- 2.5 5.9 +/- 2.0 P<0.005 Calcium Acetate (PhosLo®) (4 g/day) (1) 7.2 +/- 2.0 5.6 +/- 1.7 P<0.005 (1) Serum calcium increased significantly from baseline to end of treatment (8.7 +/- 0.5 mg/dL to 9.2 +/- 0.7 mg/dL) only in the calcium acetate group. Table 4—Effects on Serum Phosphorus at 4 Weeks (n=54) Open Label, Randomized, Crossover, 2 sites Serum Phosphorous Baseline (mg/dL) End-Point (Four Weeks) (mg/dL) Change from Baseline Ferric Citrate (Zerenex™) (3 g/day) 6.7 +/- 1.9 5.7 +/- 1.6 P<0.001 Calcium Carbonate (3 g/day) (1) 7.2 +/- 1.9 5.2 +/- 1.5 P<0.001 (1) Serum calcium increased only in patients treated with calcium carbonate. Development Status In July 2006, we met with the FDA to discuss the further development of Zerenex, including Phase 3 study design and requirements prior to moving into Phase 3. To support higher doses and longer duration of treatment in Phase 3, we agreed with the FDA to conduct additional studies. As agreed with the FDA, chronic toxicity studies in animals are being conducted, as well as a shorter-term high-dose tolerance and safety study in patients. In August 2007, we provided the FDA with our 28-day toxicology package for rats and dogs. The FDA accepted our 28-day toxicology package and we plan to commence a Phase 2 high-dose exposure clinical trial in the first quarter of 2008. In addition to the 28-day toxicology study, we are conducting a 90-day toxicology study in rats and a 16-week toxicology study in dogs. This will assist the Company in designing the chronic toxicity studies. Initiation of the shorter-term, high-dose tolerance and safety clinical trial is expected in the first quarter of 2008. Oncology KRX-0401 (perifosine) Overview We are also developing KRX-0401 (perifosine), which is a novel, potentially first-in-class, oral anti-cancer agent that modulates Akt, and a number of other key signal transduction pathways, including the JNK and MAPK pathways, all of which are pathways associated with programmed cell death, cell growth, cell differentiation and cell survival. The effects of perifosine on Akt are of particular interest because of the importance of this pathway in the development of most cancers, the evidence that it is often activated in tumors that are resistant to other forms of anticancer therapy, and the difficulty encountered thus far in the discovery of drugs that will inhibit this pathway without causing excessive toxicity. High levels of activated Akt (pAkt) are seen frequently in many types of cancer and have been correlated with poor prognosis in patients with soft-tissue sarcoma, gastric, hepatocellular, endometrial, prostate, renal cell, head and neck cancers and hematological malignancies, as well as glioblastoma. The majority of tumors expressing high levels of pAkt were high-grade, advanced stage or had other features associated with poor prognosis. High pAkt is often seen in tumors that are resistant to conventional cancer treatments, including radiotherapy, chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, and especially therapy with some of the newer biologicals. Published data suggest that the Akt pathway is frequently activated in renal cell cancer and that this tumor type may be particularly responsive to Akt inhibition. To date, over 1,700 patients have been treated with KRX-0401 in trials conducted both in the United States and Europe. Its safety profile is distinctly different from that of most cytotoxic agents. It does not appear to cause myelosuppression (depression of the immune system that may lead to life threatening infections), thrombocytopenia (a decrease in platelets that may result in bleeding), skin rash, flu-like symptoms or alopecia (hair loss); all of these toxicities occur frequently with many of the currently available treatments for cancer. The main side effects of perifosine are nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and fatigue, but these are either mild or non-existent in lower doses that have induced tumor regression. Responses have been seen with both daily and weekly regimens. At the doses studied, the daily regimens were better tolerated. In Phase 1/2 trials, KRX-0401 has induced tumor regressions and/or caused disease stabilization in a variety of tumor types. KRX-0401 has shown single agent partial responses in renal cell and hepatocellular carcinoma, soft tissue sarcoma, GIST tumors, mesothelioma, and carcinoma of the appendix. There is also evidence of activity in hematological malignancies, especially multiple myeloma. Disease stabilization, defined as time on treatment without progression for at least 6 months has been seen in 20 tumor types, including metastatic renal cell cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, melanoma, carcinoid, prostate, head and neck, breast, and small cell lung cancer. Responding patients, including stable disease, have been treated for various durations up to more than three years. Pre-Clinical and Clinical Data In vitro, KRX-0401 inhibits the growth of a variety of human tumor cell lines and has substantial activity in vivo against a number of murine tumor models and human xenografts. Investigators at the US National Cancer Institute, or NCI, were among the first to study the effects of KRX-0401 on Akt using a prostate cell line, PC-3 that is known to have constitutively activated Akt. Their results demonstrated that KRX-0401 blocked phosphorylation of Akt but did not decrease the total amount of Akt present in the cell. In model systems the drug appears to be synergistic with radiotherapy and additive or synergistic with cytotoxics such as cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide. In these experiments, the combination regimens were superior to chemotherapy alone and were well tolerated. Recent data suggest that KRX-0401 may be additive or synergistic with newer targeted agents such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors sorafenib (Nexavar®) and sunitinib (Sutent®). Pre-clinical studies presented at the American Society of Hematology Annual Meeting in December 2005 demonstrated KRX-0401’s potential utility in the treatment of multiple myeloma and possibly other forms of hematological malignancy. These studies demonstrated KRX-0401 to be active against human multiple myeloma cell lines and freshly isolated myeloma cells from multiple myeloma patients' bone marrow, including those cells which were resistant to dexamethasone and doxorubicin. KRX-0401 was shown to modulate a number of key cellular functions involved in the replication and death of multiple myeloma cells, and, as in other cell lines, it was shown to be a potent Akt inhibitor. KRX-0401 was active in vitro and in vivo when used alone. Investigators at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute demonstrated that it is synergistic when combined with bortezomib (Velcade®), dexamethasone and a number of other drugs used to treat multiple myeloma. In these experiments, treatment with bortezomib alone inhibited phosphorylation of ERK while increasing Akt activation. KRX-0401 inhibited phosphorylation of Akt while increasing ERK activation. The two drugs together inhibited phosphorylation of both Akt and ERK, and these effects correlated with the increased efficacy of the combination. Seven Phase 1 single agent studies of KRX-0401 have been completed, three in Europe by Zentaris and four in the United States by the NCI, a department of the National Institutes of Health, or NIH, as part of a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, or CRADA, and by us. These trials demonstrated that KRX-0401 can be safely given to humans with an acceptable toxicity profile and no observed myelosuppression, or bone marrow suppression. The dose limiting toxicity in the Phase 1 studies was gastrointestinal: nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. In addition, some patients experienced fatigue, especially with prolonged administration. In these Phase 1 studies, there was single agent activity as evidenced by two durable partial responses (one of which lasted more than six months and the other more than 18 months) out of 10 patients with previously treated, evaluable soft tissue sarcomas, a tumor type relatively unresponsive to chemotherapy. In addition, 22 patients were considered by the investigators to have had disease stabilization for two or more months, including patients with sarcomas (2), prostate cancer (3), non-small cell lung cancer (2), breast cancer (2), colon cancer (2), melanoma (2), renal cancer (3), ovarian cancer (1), salivary gland cancer (1), mesothelioma (2) and hepatoma (2). The meaning of disease stabilization in an individual patient in a Phase 1 study is difficult to assess because the time to progression is variable and may give a false impression of stabilization in individual patients. We believe that the Phase 1 data provides clinical evidence of the anti-cancer effects of KRX-0401. 10 Five Phase 1/2 studies of KRX-0401 in combination with other drugs have been conducted by Keryx; another eight are ongoing. Other drugs that have been included in these combinations are gemcitabine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, prednisone, doxorubicin, capecitabine, pemetrexed, irinotecan, Doxil® (doxorubicin HCl liposome injection), trastuzumab, various endocrine therapies, imatinib, bortezomib, sorafenib, and sunitinib. In general KRX-0401 has not added to the toxicities expected when these other drugs are used alone, and in general it has not been necessary to reduce the dose of either perifosine or the other drug in the combination. KRX-0401 has also been studied in combination with radiotherapy without evidence of increased toxicity. The NCI has completed a number of Phase 2 clinical trials studying KRX-0401 as a single agent, including studies in prostate, breast, head and neck and pancreatic cancers, as well as melanoma and sarcomas. In total, nine NCI clinical trials have been conducted across these six tumor types. Findings from these studies led most of these investigators to conclude that the drug was safe and well-tolerated at the Phase 2 dose utilized. The studies used dosing schedules in which a large “bolus” dose was given on day one or once every 28 days followed by daily doses either continuously (“continuous” regimen) or on days 2 to 21 of a four-week cycle (“intermittent” regimen). Bolus doses ranged from 300 mg to 900 mg followed by daily doses of 100 - 150 mg. These studies confirm the safety profile of the bolus plus daily regimens, which had very limited grade 3 and no grade 4 gastrointestinal toxicity, the dose limiting toxicity in most of the Phase 1 trials. However, studies using the “continuous” regimen appeared to be better tolerated than studies that used the “intermittent” regimen. In the NCI Phase 2 sarcoma study that utilized the “continuous” regimen, the investigators reported a partial response (greater than 50% decrease in tumor mass) as well as several disease stabilizations. No response was seen in the other NCI sarcoma trial in which the less well tolerated “intermittent” dose schedule was used. In the NCI Phase 2 breast cancer study, investigators scored three of 15 evaluable patients as having stable disease. One of these patients had measurable tumor regression that failed to reach the level of a partial response by the time the patient elected to withdraw from the study because of gastrointestinal toxicity. The breast cancer trial utilized the more toxic “intermittent” regimen. In one of the prostate cancer studies the “continuous” regimen was given to patients with recurrent hormone-sensitive prostate cancer whose only manifestation of disease was an elevation of PSA. PSA levels fell in 5 of 22 evaluable patients enrolled in this trial, but no PSA level fell by more than 50%. Twenty patients were considered by the investigators to have had disease stabilization. The median time to progression was 6.6 months, but one patient continued on treatment without further progression for 3.3 years. In other prostate cancer study the “intermittent” regimen was evaluated in patients with hormone-refractory disease that was more widespread. In this study there were no radiographic responses or PSA declines of 50% or greater, but four patients had stable PSA values for 12 weeks or longer. Eleven of 14 patients, or 78%, in whom circulating tumor cells were measured pre- and post-treatment, showed a decreased number of circulating tumor cells after treatment. In the melanoma trial published by the National Cancer Institute of Canada, one patient with a primary mucosal melanoma of the vagina and inguinal adenopathy had a 50% reduction in the size of the palpable nodes after four cycles but developed new disease after the fifth cycle. None of the patients with head and neck or pancreatic cancers enrolled in these NCI trials responded. A review from all completed and ongoing Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies demonstrated that KRX-0401 induced 21 partial responses in various malignancies including renal cell and hepatocellular carcinoma, soft tissue sarcoma, GIST tumors, mesothelioma, carcinoma of the appendix, and multiple myeloma. Disease stabilization, defined as time on treatment without progression for at least 6 months was seen in 20 tumor types, including metastatic renal cell cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, soft tissue sarcoma, melanoma, carcinoid, prostate, head and neck, breast, and small cell lung cancer. In June 2006, we announced data of KRX-0401 in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). These patients were a cohort of a Phase 2, multi-center trial of KRX-0401 conducted by Keryx that included multiple tumor types. Patients were randomized to either a daily (50 mg or 100mg) or weekly (900mg or 1200mg) dose of KRX-0401. Although the study is ongoing, 416 patients had been enrolled at the time of the last analysis, and 24 of these had advanced RCC. All patients in this study were to have had prior standard therapy. Most patients had received two chemotherapy regimens for metastatic disease. In November 2007, updated data on the renal cancer patients enrolled in this trial were announced. The results are summarized in the table below. One of the four responding patients had previously failed to respond to both sorafenib and sunitinib. Perifosine Efficacy in Renal Cell Cancer Number of Patients All Doses Lower Doses 50 or 100 mg Daily Higher Doses 900 or 1200 mg Weekly Total enrolled, all tumor types 416 205 211 Renal Cell Cancers 24 12 12 Evaluable for response* 13 7 6 Partial response (RECIST) 4 2 2 Durations of response (months) 4, 7, 9, 12 7, 12 4, 9 Stable ≥ 6 months 4 3 1 Duration stable disease (months) 10, 13, 14, 18+ 10, 13, 14 18+ Response rate† 31% 29% 33% Clinical benefit rate †† 62% 71% 50% * Patients with measurable disease on study for at least 2 months and at least one tumor measurement after initiation of perifosine + Patient had not yet progressed at the time of the analysis † RECIST criteria †† PR or Stable for ≥6 months 11 In a Phase 1 study of KRX-0401 combined with sorafenib, 18 patients with advanced cancers were enrolled in one of four cohorts. Ten of these patients had advanced renal cell carcinoma with some patients having received a prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor (sunitinib). No grade 4 toxicities were reported and 1 grade 3 hand/foot syndrome has been seen. The combination has been generally well tolerated. In June 2007, an analysis of the response to perifosine of sarcoma patients enrolled in one of three Phase 1 or four Phase 2 trials that enrolled patients with soft sarcomas were presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology meetings in Chicago. There were a total of 145 patients, 76 treated with one of 3 regimens defined retrospectively as being “lower doses” and 69 treated with “higher doses.” Only 82 patients were fully evaluable. The most common reason that patients were inevaluable is that they were removed from study for toxicity without evidence of tumor progression. This happened more often among patients treated with the higher doses. In addition, patients were considered inevaluable if they had rapid progression shortly after drugs was started (< 2 months) and before perifosine would have had much chance to work. The definition of clinical benefit rate (CBR) used in this analysis is identical to that used previously in an analysis of the effectiveness of mTOR inhibitors for patients with soft tissue sarcomas. The overall CBR in evaluable patients, 52%, was not significantly different in the two patient cohorts defined by the dose administered. The response rate in an intent-to-treat analysis was higher in patients treated with the lower doses because of the higher proportion of patients on the higher dose regimens who could not tolerate drug. In December 2006 and again in December 2007, we reported results from a Phase 2 study of KRX-0401 alone and in combination with dexamethasone in patients with advanced relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. Sixty-seven highly pre-treated multiple myeloma patients (median age 62 yrs) were treated with KRX-0401 at 150 mg qd to assess the single agent activity in this patient population. Patients had a median of 4 lines of prior therapy (range 1 - 11) and 94% of patients were previously treated with at least one course of dexamethasone. If a patient progressed on KRX-0401 alone, dexamethasone (20mg twice weekly) was added to their KRX-0401 regimen. Toxicity was manageable with no deep vein thrombosis or peripheral neuropathy reported. The most common grade 3/4 adverse events were nausea (8%); vomiting (5%); diarrhea (2%); fatigue (2%), neutropenia (17%), anemia (6%) and increased creatinine (8% in the context of PD and light chain nephropathy). Ten patients discontinued therapy due to an adverse event. Twenty-one patients had KRX-0401 reduced from 150 to 100 mg qd with no difference in response noted. In this heavily pre-treated and relapsed/refractory patient population, KRX-0401 as monotherapy was considered by the investigators to be active with 33 of 50 evaluable patients (66%) achieving stable disease. (See table below) Dexamethasone was added in 39 of 55 pts with progressive disease. In 29 patients evaluable for response to the combination the overall response rate (CR+PR+MR) was 35% and 52% had disease stabilization. Enrollment objectives were met and the study is now closed. Perifosine Efficacy in Multiple Myeloma Number (%) Duration of Response (Weeks) Perifosine Alone Evaluable for response 50 Response MR 1 (2%) 24 Stable Disease* 33 (66%) 6 - 45+ (median 10) Perifosine + Dexamethasone Evaluable for response 29 Response PR 4(14%) 36, 39, 63+, 64+ MR 6 (21%) 15, 18, 19, 28+, 30, 70 Stable Disease* 15 (52%) 6 - 31 (median 14) *Stable disease: <25% change in m-protein 12 In December 2007 we announced the first results of a trial combining KRX-0401 with bortezomib in patients with advanced multiple myeloma previously treated with bortezomib. This trial was designed as a Phase 1/2 study. The Phase 1 portion enrolled 18 patients (median age 64 yrs) with advanced multiple myeloma (83% relapsed and refractory) who were enrolled in one of four cohorts. Patients had a median of 5 lines of prior therapy and 100% of patients were previously treated with at least one course of therapy on bortezomib. KRX-0401 was escalated from 50 to 100 mg qd while bortezomib was escalated from 1.0 to 1.3 mg/mm2. No dose- limiting toxicity and no grade 3 peripheral neuropathy were reported. Toxicities were generally easily managed and tolerated. Dexamethasone 20mg (day of and day after each bortezomib dose) was added in patients with progressive disease on KRX-0401 plus bortezomib alone. Sixteen patients on either bortezomib plus KRX-0401 alone or with dexamethasone were evaluable for response, assessed by modified EBMT/Blade criteria. An overall response rate of 56% (CR + PR + MR) was reported with an additional 31% of patients achieving stable disease. The Phase 2 portion of the study is currently open with KRX-0401 50 mg daily + bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2, on days 1, 4, 8, 11 of a 21 day cycle. The investigators concluded that the combination of KRX-0401 and bortezomib (+/- dexamethasone) was well tolerated and is active in heavily pre-treated and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma, including bortezomib- resistant patients. Development Status During the second quarter of 2004, we announced the initiation of a Phase 2 program utilizing KRX-0401 as a single agent and in combination with a number of standard anti-cancer therapies in multiple tumor types. To date, we have initiated a number of trials under this program, including single agent studies in lung and breast cancer and sarcoma, and combination studies with a number of standard anti-cancer treatments, such as gemcitabine, paclitaxel, docetaxel, pemetrexed, capecitabine, doxorubicin, Doxil® (doxorubicin HCl liposome injection), irinotecan, Herceptin® (trastuzumab), and endocrine therapy. We have also initiated an “all-comers” Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating KRX-0401 as a single-agent, administered either weekly or daily in a variety of tumor types. Preliminary results have been reported from many of these studies and are described above. In December 2006, we announced the initiation of a corporate-sponsored Phase 2 clinical program to evaluate KRX-0401 as a treatment for rare sarcomas. This Phase 2 study is being conducted by the Sarcoma Alliance for Research through Collaboration (SARC) multi-center network, which includes nationally recognized sarcoma centers and investigators throughout the United States. This clinical trial is entitled “A Phase II Trial of Perifosine in Patients with Chemo-Insensitive Sarcomas.” In this Phase 2 study, the single agent activity of KRX-0401 is being evaluated in patients with chondrosarcoma, alveolar soft part sarcomas and extra-skeletal myxoid chondrosarcomas. Patients are treated with KRX-0401 until disease progression. This study follows previous Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials of perifosine in patients with chemo-insensitive sarcoma that showed responding patients experienced very little toxicity and the duration of responses observed on both weekly and daily dosing schedules varied from six months to more than 18 months. Furthermore, some of the partial responses occurred in patients with sarcoma subtypes that have been traditionally unresponsive to conventional therapy. 13 In December 2006, we announced the initiation of a multi-center Phase 1 clinical program to explore the convenient all-oral combination of KRX-0401, Revlimid® and dexamethasone for the treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. This trial will be completed in 2008. The results of these Phase 1/2 trials will determine the feasibility of initiating randomized trials in patients with multiple myeloma. During 2007 the Phase 1 portion of a Phase 1/2 trial evaluating the combination of perifosine with Velcade® (bortezomib) was completed. The results are summarized above. Patients are now being enrolled in the Phase 2 component of this study. During 2007 four trials were initiated to evaluate perifosine alone or in combination for patients with advanced renal cell cancer. Two of these were Phase 2 studies of perifosine alone, either in patients resistant to the tyrosine kinase inhibitors (sorafenib or sunitinib) or in patients resistant to mTOR inhibitors. Two of these trials were Phase 1/2 studies of perifosine in combination with sorafenib or sunitinib. All four of these trials are still accruing patients and will continue throughout 2008. In addition, a randomized trial evaluating perifosine in patients with advanced renal cancer is planned for 2008. KRX-0402 KRX-0402 (O6-benzylguanine or O6-BG) is a small molecule that was specifically designed to block the DNA repair protein, MGMT. MGMT confers resistance to certain alkylating agents, such as temozolomide and BCNU, that are commonly used to treat brain cancer, melanoma and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Recent research has shown that KRX-0402 can also potentiate the activity of other alkylating agents, such as cyclophosphamide, ifosphamide, cisplatinum and carboplatinum. These drugs are some of the most widely used chemotherapy drugs and are commonly used to treat breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer and ovarian cancer. To date, nearly 800 patients have received KRX-0402 in multiple clinical studies. Dose limiting toxicity for KRX-0402 in combination with chemotherapy is bone marrow suppression. KRX-0402 alone has no identified dose limiting toxicity. We are currently assessing the future development prospects of KRX-0402. KRX-0601 (7-hydroxystaurosporine) KRX-0601 is a novel multi-kinase inhibitor for the treatment of cancer which, in pre-clinical models, has demonstrated a synergistic effect with agents inhibiting the PI3K pathway, including KRX-0401. KRX-0601 is currently in several Phase 2 clinical trials both as a single agent and in combination with other anticancer agents which are being conducted under the direction and sponsorship of the NCI. KRX-0601 is an anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called staurosporine analogs which have demonstrated an ability to inhibit multiple kinases involved in cell-cycle progression and apoptosis, including Chk-1 and PDK1. In pre-clinical studies, KRX-0601 has demonstrated synergistic effect with DNA-damaging agents including chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In-vitro, KRX-0601 has been shown to be synergistic with agents affecting the PI3-K pathway including KRX-0401 and mTOR inhibitors. In clinical trials, as reported by investigators at the National Cancer Institute, durable single-agent responses have been seen in patients with anaplastic large-cell lymphoma. We are currently assessing the future development prospects of KRX-0601. KRX-0404 KRX-0404, currently in pre-clinical development, is an alkylphosphocholine, but, in contrast to KRX-0401, it is suitable for intravenous administration. We are currently assessing the future development prospects of KRX-0404. Neurology KRX-0501 KRX-0501 is an orally available small molecule in clinical development with the potential to treat neurological disorders via its unique ability to enhance nerve growth factor, a naturally occurring protein which is essential in the development and survival of certain sympathetic and sensory neurons in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. In May 2007, we initiated a first-in-man Phase 1 study for KRX-0501, a nerve growth factor enhancer, in healthy volunteers to assess the pharmacokinetic profile. KRX-0501 was licensed from Krenitsky Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in 2005 and we hold a worldwide license to develop and sell the product for all indications. KRX-0501 is believed to have potential for use in the treatment of neurological conditions such as diabetic neuropathic pain, Huntington and Alzheimer’s disease, as well as chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. 14 KRX-0701 KRX-0701 (dexlipotam) or (tromethamine-salt of R(+)-α-lipoic acid) is a compound being investigated for the treatment of diabetic neuropathy and possibly other neuropathic conditions. Currently, there is an Investigational New Drug Application for KRX-0701 in the United States and we are planning to initiate a Phase 2 dose-ranging study in 2008 for diabetic neuropathy. KRX-0701 is considered to be an antioxidant and can normalize the cell redox imbalance that occurs in diabetes. During the first half of 2007, we acquired an exclusive worldwide license to KRX-0701 from Degussa AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of the RAG Group based in Germany. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we made an up-front payment and will make milestone payments as well as pay royalties on product sales. The Company plans to enter into a Phase 2 study in the second half of 2008. COSTS AND TIME TO COMPLETE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The information below provides estimates regarding the costs associated with the completion of the current development phase and our current estimated range of the time that will be necessary to complete that development phase for our drug candidates. We also direct your attention to the risk factors which could significantly affect our ability to meet these cost and time estimates found in this report in Item 1A under the heading “Risks Associated with Our Product Development Efforts.” Product candidate Targetindication Developmentstatus Completion of phase Estimated costto complete phase Endocrine/Renal Sulonex™ (sulodexide) Diabetic nephropathy Phase 3 1st Qtr. 2008 Approximately $3 million Phase 4 Not estimable Not estimable Zerenex™ (ferric citrate) Hyperphosphatemia in patients with end-stage renal disease Phase 2 Late 2008 / Early 2009 Approximately $6 million Oncology KRX-0401 (perifosine) Renal cancer and other multipleforms of cancer Phase 2 Not estimable Not estimable KRX-0402 (O6-benzylguanine) or (O6-BG) Brain cancer Phase 2 Not estimable Not estimable KRX-0601 (7-hydroxystaurosporine) Multiple forms of cancer Phase 2 Not estimable Not estimable KRX-0404 (ErPC) Multiple forms of cancer Pre-clinical Not estimable Not estimable Neurology KRX-0701 (dexlipotam) Diabetic neuropathy Phase 2 Not estimable Not estimable KRX-0501 Neurological disorders Phase 1 2009 Approximately $2 million Completion dates and costs in the above table are estimates due to the uncertainties associated with clinical trials and the related requirements of development. In cases where the requirements for clinical trials and development programs have not been fully defined, or are dependent on the success of other trials, we cannot estimate trial completion or cost with any certainty. The actual spending on each trial during the year is also dependent on funding. We therefore direct your attention to Item 7 under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PATENTS General Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to the development of our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary technologies from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents, supported by regulatory data exclusivity or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. It is our intention to seek and maintain patent and trade secret protection for our drug candidates and our proprietary technologies. As part of our business strategy, our policy is to actively file patent applications in the United States and, when appropriate, internationally to cover methods of use, new chemical compounds, pharmaceutical compositions and dosing of the compounds and compositions and improvements in each of these. We also rely on trade secret information, technical know-how, innovation and agreements with third parties to continuously expand and protect our competitive position. We have a number of patents and patent applications related to our compounds and other technology, but we cannot guarantee the scope of protection of the issued patents, or that such patents will survive a validity or enforceability challenge, or that any of the pending patent applications will issue as patents. 15 Generally, patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for a period of 18 months or more. Since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we are not certain that we were the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or that we were the first to file those patent applications. The patent positions of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Therefore, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology and pharmaceutical patents, or their enforceability. To date, there has been no consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents. Third parties or competitors may challenge or circumvent our patents or patent applications, if issued. If our competitors prepare and file patent applications in the United States that claim technology also claimed by us, we may have to participate in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to us. Because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that before we commercialize any of our products, any related patent may expire or remain in existence for only a short period following commercialization, thus reducing any advantage of the patent. If a patent is issued to a third party containing one or more preclusive or conflicting claims, and those claims are ultimately determined to be valid and enforceable, we may be required to obtain a license under such patent or to develop or obtain alternative technology. In the event of a litigation involving a third party claim, an adverse outcome in the litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to such third party, require us to seek a license for the disputed rights from such third party, and/or require us to cease use of the technology. Further, our breach of an existing license or failure to obtain a license to technology required to commercialize our products may seriously harm our business. We also may need to commence litigation to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Litigation would involve substantial costs. Sulonex (sulodexide) Pursuant to our license for sulodexide, we initially had the rights to ten patent families, including nine families of issued United States patents and foreign counterparts, and one family of a pending United States patent application and foreign counterparts. However, we determined that several of the licensed patents were not material to our business strategy and relinquished all rights to those patents. The four remaining patent families currently under license cover the use of sulodexide or glycosaminoglycans for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, retinopathy or neuropathy. In addition, we subsequently filed five additional United States patent applications and certain foreign counterparts relating to this product, which applications are currently pending. The remaining licensed patents, and the additional patent applications, are being maintained throughout the territories in which they were filed. U.S. Patent No. 5,496,807 covers the use of sulodexide to treat a patient with diabetic nephropathy exhibiting microalbuminuria or macroalbuminuria. This patent expires in 2014. Based on the provisions of the Patent Term Extension Act, we currently believe that we would qualify for patent term extension of at least three years, thereby extending our patent exclusivity, for the issued United States patent to at least 2017. We believe that we will have sufficient time to commercially utilize the inventions directed to the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. U.S. Patent No. 7,259,152 covers the use of oral formulations of sulodexide for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy in patients with both insulin dependent and non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. This patent expires in 2020. Other Clinical-Stage Compounds, including KRX-0401(perifosine) Pursuant to our acquisition of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. in February 2004, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patents and patent applications in the United States, Canada and Mexico related to perifosine. These patents and patent applications cover composition of matter and methods of treatment. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, we have obtained a United States patent and foreign counterparts directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising KRX-0402 (O6-benzylguanine) expiring in 2010 (with extension expected through 2015). 16 Pursuant to our license agreement for KRX-0601, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patent applications worldwide excluding Japan. These patents and patent applications cover composition of matter and process of making for UCN-01 and liposomal formulations of UCN-01. The composition of matter patent expired in June 2007. The method of use patents expire from 2013 to 2017. Pursuant to our license for Zerenex (ferric citrate) with Panion & BF Biotech, Inc., or Panion, we have the exclusive commercial rights to a series of patent applications worldwide, excluding certain Asian-Pacific countries. These patents and patent applications cover a method of treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with ESRD, as well as a method for the manufacture of ferric citrate. Panion holds one use patent expiring 2017 (with extensions expected through 2020) and two manufacturing process patents (expiring 2023). We are continuing to research additional uses for this compound and anticipate filing additional patent applications in the future. Other Intellectual Property Rights We depend upon trademarks, trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advances to develop and maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we require our employees, scientific advisors, consultants and collaborators, upon commencement of a relationship with us, to execute confidentiality agreements and, in the case of parties other than our research and development collaborators, to agree to assign their inventions to us. These agreements are designed to protect our proprietary information and to grant us ownership of technologies that are developed in connection with their relationship with us. These agreements may not, however, provide protection for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. In addition to patent protection, we may utilize orphan drug regulations or other provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act to provide market exclusivity for certain of our drug candidates. Orphan drug regulations provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or, diseases that affect more than 200,000 individuals in the United States but that the sponsor does not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan drug can seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product. We believe that certain of the indications for our drug candidates will be eligible for orphan drug designation; however, we cannot assure that our drugs will obtain such orphan drug designation or that we will be the first to receive FDA approval for such drugs so as to be eligible for market exclusivity protection. With respect to KRX-0402 and KRX-0601, we may rely predominantly on the market exclusivity provided under the orphan drug regulations as the patents on these drugs may expire prior to commercialization. LICENSING AGREEMENTS AND COLLABORATIONS We have formed strategic alliances with a number of companies for the manufacture and commercialization of our products. Our current key strategic alliances are discussed below. Alfa Wassermann S.p.A. Under a license agreement with Alfa Wassermann, we have the exclusive rights to sulodexide (Sulonex) for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy, neuropathy and retinopathy in the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and Israel. The license entitles Alfa Wassermann to annual license fees, royalties and certain milestone payments. Under the license, we must use our reasonable best efforts to commercially exploit and market sulodexide. In certain circumstances Alfa Wassermann is entitled to use proprietary information developed by us and, if it chooses to do so, will be required to pay a percentage of the expenses incurred by us to develop such proprietary information. If the license is not terminated sooner, it will terminate upon the later of the date of expiration of the last claim under the licensed patent rights or ten years from our first commercial sale of a licensed product. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional information. Collaborative Study Group In June 2005, we announced that the CSG will be conducting our pivotal Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical program of sulodexide for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. The CSG receives a monthly fee and reimbursement of expenses from us as compensation for its work in connection with this clinical program. The CSG also has the right to publish data arising from the clinical program. The agreement remains in force through June 2009, unless extended by the parties. Either party may terminate the agreement at any time upon 30 days written notice to the other party. 17 Opocrin, S.p.A. Pursuant to a license with Opocrin, S.p.A., a private drug manufacturer, we have a non-exclusive worldwide license to the manufacturing process of sulodexide for a period of twelve years from the date of the first commercial sale of the product. AEterna Zentaris Inc. In September 2002, we signed a commercial license agreement with Zentaris AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of AEterna Zentaris Inc., relating to the development of perifosine covering composition of matter and methods of treatment. This agreement grants us the exclusive rights to perifosine (KRX-0401) in the United States, Canada and Mexico. Zentaris is entitled to certain royalty payments, as well as additional compensation upon successful achievement of certain milestones. The license terminates upon the later of the expiration of all underlying patent rights or ten years from the first commercial sale of KRX-0401 in any of the covered territories. We also have the right to extend the agreement for an additional five years beyond the expiration of all underlying patents. The National Institutes of Health In October 2000, we entered into a worldwide, exclusive commercial sub-license agreement with Procept, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Paligent, Inc., relating to the development and marketing of KRX-0402 (O6-benzylguanine). In March 2005, we entered into an agreement with Procept and the NIH, which amended the license agreement between Procept and the NIH whereby we obtained all of Procept's rights and interests, and assumed all of Procept's obligations, under the agreement. The NIH is entitled to certain milestone payments, as well as royalty payments on net sales of KRX-0402. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights. Panion & BF Biotech, Inc. In November 2005, we entered into a license agreement with Panion. Under the license agreement, we have acquired the exclusive worldwide rights, excluding certain Asian-Pacific countries, for the development and marketing of ferric citrate (Zerenex). Panion is entitled to certain milestone payments, as well as royalty payments on net sales of Zerenex. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for additional information. Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. In September 2006, we entered into an exclusive license agreement with Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co., Ltd. of Tokyo, Japan, or Kyowa, for the worldwide development and commercialization rights, excluding Japan, to KRX-0601. Kyowa is entitled to milestone payments as well as royalties on product sales, if any. The license terminates upon the expiration of all underlying patent rights. AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc. In April 2006, Accumin Diagnostics, Inc., or ADI, our wholly-owned subsidiary, completed the acquisition of AccuminTM, a novel, patent protected, diagnostic for the direct measurement of total, intact urinary albumin, from AusAm Biotechnologies, Inc., or AusAm. ADI may be required to pay up to a maximum of $16.1 million in royalties on revenue from a next generation product following FDA marketing approval. Degussa AG During the first half of 2007, we acquired an exclusive worldwide license to KRX-0701 from Degussa AG, a wholly owned subsidiary of the RAG Group based in Germany. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we made an up-front payment and will make milestone payments as well as pay royalties on product sales. Japan Tobacco Inc. and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. In September 2007, we entered into a sublicense agreement with Japan Tobacco Inc. (“JT”) and Torii Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (“Torii”), JT's pharmaceutical business subsidiary, under which JT and Torii obtained the exclusive rights for the development and commercialization of Zerenex (ferric citrate) in Japan. The licensing arrangement calls for JT and Torii to pay us up to $100 million in up-front license fees and payments upon the achievement of pre-specified milestones, including up to $20 million in up-front payments and near-term milestones, of which Keryx received $12 million in October 2007. In addition, upon commercialization, JT and Torii will make royalty payments to Keryx on net sales of ferric citrate in Japan. JT and Torii will be responsible for the future development and commercialization costs in Japan. 18 COMPETITION Competition in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries is intense. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. The drugs that we are attempting to develop will have to compete with existing therapies. In addition, a large number of companies are pursuing the development of pharmaceuticals that target the same diseases and conditions that we are targeting. Other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug candidates. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We have entered into a relationship with Scientific Protein Laboratories, LLC, or SPL, a U.S.-based contract manufacturer, to manufacture Sulonex which we believe will be adequate to satisfy our current clinical trial and early commercial market needs. Manufacture will be conducted in a manufacturing suite built within their current facility by Keryx, which they will operate on our behalf. We believe this suite will be suitable to manufacture launch and initial commercialization (1 to 3 years) quantities of Sulonex. This new manufacturing suite has been completed and facility validation is in progress, with expected completion in 2008. As with all heparin-like compounds, the end product is sensitive to the manufacturing process utilized and we will need to accurately reproduce the established process on the larger scale to ensure successful commercialization of Sulonex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this endeavor. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital expenditures to enable this larger scale production. To date, we have spent $11.2 million in capital expenditures to build the current manufacturing suite. As we move forward, we plan to build additional manufacturing capacity to meet the future demands for Sulonex and create back-up manufacturing capabilities. The creation of a reproducible process is also critical in successfully sourcing Sulonex from multiple suppliers to create back-up manufacturing capabilities and/or to meet market demand. We believe that multi-sourcing is possible provided we can demonstrate that the manufacturing process is the same at all suppliers and the product produced by them is equivalent. Key raw materials for Sulonex, our lead product candidate, are derived from porcine mucosa. Long-term supplies for Sulonex could be affected by limitations in the supply of porcine mucosa and the demand for other heparin products, over which we will have no control. We estimate, in part, based on the number of pigs killed worldwide and estimates of projected supplies of porcine mucosa, that there is enough potential supply of this raw material to commercialize Sulonex. If our estimates of the potential supply of this key raw material are not accurate or we cannot secure adequate amounts of the potential supply of such material, then the market potential of Sulonex will not be realized. Additionally, diseases affecting the world supply of pigs, or safety issues associated with heparin products, generally, or specifically associated with heparin manufactured by our suppliers, including SPL, could have an actual or perceived negative impact on our ability, or the ability of our contract manufacturers, to source, make and/or sell Sulonex. Supply of heparin from China is important to all participants in the heparin business and, therefore, we are following closely the evaluations of applicable controls and regulations in China. We believe the long term results of this added scrutiny will be beneficial both to the heparin industry in general, and to patients in particular, resulting in an even higher level of quality assurance. Accordingly, we will continue to monitor this situation closely to determine its impact, if any, on Keryx and Sulonex. All of these factors could materially affect the commercial success of Sulonex. We have established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of Zerenex to ensure that we will have sufficient material for clinical trials. In addition, we are establishing the basis for commercial production capabilities. As with any supply program, obtaining raw materials of the correct quality cannot be guaranteed and we cannot ensure that we will be successful in this endeavor. 19 We have also established contract manufacturing relationships for the supply of KRX-0401 and KRX-0402. At the time of commercial sale, to the extent possible and commercially practicable, we would seek to engage a back-up supplier for each of our product candidates. Until such time, we expect that we will rely on a single contract manufacturer to produce each of our product candidates under current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, regulations. Our third-party manufacturers have a limited number of facilities in which our product candidates can be produced and will have limited experience in manufacturing our product candidates in quantities sufficient for conducting clinical trials or for commercialization. Our third-party manufacturers will have other clients and may have other priorities that could affect their ability to perform the work satisfactorily and/or on a timely basis. Both of these occurrences would be beyond our control. We expect to similarly rely on contract manufacturing relationships for any products that we may in-license or acquire in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully contract with such manufacturers on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other state and federal regulations. Our contractors in Europe face similar challenges from the numerous European Union and member state regulatory agencies. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards, other than through contractual obligations. If we need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these new manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA regulations and standards and may require significant lead times and delay. Furthermore, switching manufacturers may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find a replacement manufacturer quickly or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY REGULATION Numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies, impose substantial regulations upon the clinical development, manufacture and marketing of our drug candidates, as well as our ongoing research and development activities. None of our drug candidates have been approved for sale in any market in which we have marketing rights. Before marketing in the United States, any drug that we develop must undergo rigorous pre-clinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process implemented by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938, as amended. The FDA regulates, among other things, the pre-clinical and clinical testing, safety, efficacy, approval, manufacturing, record keeping, adverse event reporting, packaging, labeling, storage, advertising, promotion, export, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. The regulatory review and approval process is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We are required to submit extensive pre-clinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each indication or use to establish a drug candidate’s safety and efficacy before we can secure FDA approval. The approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies or surveillance. Before commencing clinical trials in humans, we must submit an IND to the FDA containing, among other things, pre-clinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and control information, and an investigative plan. Our submission of an IND may not result in FDA authorization to commence a clinical trial. The FDA may permit expedited development, evaluation, and marketing of new therapies intended to treat persons with serious or life-threatening conditions for which there is an unmet medical need under its fast track drug development programs. A sponsor can apply for fast track designation at the time of submission of an IND, or at any time prior to receiving marketing approval of the NDA. To receive fast track designation, an applicant must demonstrate: · that the drug is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening condition; · that the drug is intended to treat a serious aspect of the condition; and · that the drug has the potential to address unmet medical needs, and this potential is being evaluated in the planned drug development program. 20 The FDA must respond to a request for fast track designation within 60 calendar days of receipt of the request. Over the course of drug development, a product in a fast track development program must continue to meet the criteria for fast track designation. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs must be in regular contact with the reviewing division of the FDA to ensure that the evidence necessary to support marketing approval will be developed and presented in a format conducive to an efficient review. Sponsors of products in fast track drug development programs ordinarily are eligible for priority review and also may be permitted to submit portions of an NDA to the FDA for review before the complete application is submitted. In 2001, Sulonex received fast track designation. Sponsors of drugs designated as fast track also may seek approval under the FDA’s accelerated approval regulations under subpart H. Pursuant to subpart H, the FDA may grant marketing approval for a new drug product on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely, based on epidemiologic, therapeutic, pathophysiologic, or other evidence, to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. Approval will be subject to the requirement that the applicant study the drug further to verify and describe its clinical benefit where there is uncertainty as to the relation of the surrogate endpoint to clinical benefit or uncertainty as to the relation of the observed clinical benefit to ultimate outcome. Post-marketing studies are usually underway at the time an applicant files the NDA. When required to be conducted, such post-marketing studies must also be adequate and well-controlled. The applicant must carry out any such post-marketing studies with due diligence. In November of 2002, we announced that the FDA agreed in principal that the NDA for Sulonex may be filed under subpart H. Final approval will be based on a determination by the FDA of the safety and efficacy of Sulonex based on a surrogate endpoint. In March 2005, we announced that we had finalized a SPA with the FDA for the Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical trials of Sulonex. The clinical plan to support an NDA approval for Sulonex under subpart H, as agreed upon with the FDA under an SPA, consists of: (i) a single Phase 3 trial in patients with microalbuminuria based on the surrogate marker of regression of microalbuminuria as the primary endpoint; (ii) supportive data from previously conducted clinical studies; and (iii) substantial recruitment into our Phase 4 confirmatory study that will measure clinical outcomes in patients with overt nephropathy, or macroalbuminuria. The subpart H process is complex and requires careful execution. No assurance can be given that we will be able to meet the requirements set forth in the SPA. Even if we meet those requirements, the FDA is not obligated to grant approval of our NDA for Sulonex. If the FDA approves Sulonex for marketing on the basis of our Phase 3 trial, our Phase 4 clinical trial may yield insufficient efficacy data or give rise to safety concerns, which could result in withdrawal of such approval or could cause us to withdraw the product from the market. Many companies who have been granted the right to utilize an accelerated approval approach have failed to obtain approval. Moreover, negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we hope to conduct or adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. Clinical testing must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices, and must be conducted pursuant to an IND, unless exempted. For purposes of NDA approval, clinical trials are typically conducted in the following sequential phases: · Phase 1: The drug is administered to a small group of humans, either healthy volunteers or patients, to test for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, excretion, and clinical pharmacology. · Phase 2: Studies are conducted on a larger number of patients to assess the efficacy of the product, to ascertain dose tolerance and the optimal dose range, and to gather additional data relating to safety and potential adverse events. · Phase 3: Studies establish safety and efficacy in an expanded patient population. · Phase 4: The FDA may require Phase 4 post-marketing studies to find out more about the drug’s long-term risks, benefits, and optimal use, or to test the drug in different populations. 21 The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. Clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or that may increase the costs of these trials, include: · slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the clinical trial plan, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for participation in the study or other factors; · inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials or delays in approvals from a study site’s review board; · longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy or determine the appropriate product dose; · insufficient supply of the drug candidates; · adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and · ineffectiveness of the drug candidates. In addition, the FDA may place a clinical trial on hold or terminate it if it concludes that subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Any drug is likely to produce some toxicity or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for a sufficiently long period of time. Unacceptable toxicity or side effects may occur at any dose level at any time in the course of studies in animals designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as toxicological studies, or clinical trials of drug candidates. The appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our drug candidates and could ultimately prevent approval by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for its intended use by submitting to the FDA an NDA containing the pre-clinical and clinical data that have been accumulated, together with chemistry and manufacturing and controls specifications and information, and proposed labeling, among other things. The FDA may refuse to accept an NDA for filing if certain content criteria are not met and, even after accepting an NDA, the FDA may often require additional information, including clinical data, before approval of marketing a product. As part of the approval process, the FDA must inspect and approve each manufacturing facility. Among the conditions of approval is the requirement that a manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP. Manufacturers must expend time, money and effort to ensure compliance with cGMP, and the FDA conducts periodic inspections to certify compliance. It may be difficult for our manufacturers or us to comply with the applicable cGMP and other FDA regulatory requirements. If we, or our contract manufacturers, fail to comply, then the FDA will not allow us to market products that have been affected by the failure. If the FDA grants approval, the approval will be limited to those disease states, conditions and patient populations for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical studies. Further, a product may be marketed only in those dosage forms and for those indications approved in the NDA. Certain changes to an approved NDA, including, with certain exceptions, any changes to labeling, require approval of a supplemental application before the drug may be marketed as changed. Any products that we manufacture or distribute pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including compliance with cGMP and the reporting of adverse experiences with the drugs. The nature of marketing claims that the FDA will permit us to make in the labeling and advertising of our products will be limited to those specified in an FDA approval, and the advertising of our products will be subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA. Drugs approved under Subpart H carry additional restrictions on marketing activities, including the requirement that all promotional materials to be used in support of the product are pre-submitted to FDA. Claims exceeding those that are approved will constitute a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Violations of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or regulatory requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process, or after approval may result in agency enforcement actions, including withdrawal of approval, recall, seizure of products, injunctions, fines and/or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Should we wish to market our products outside the United States, we must receive marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. At present, companies are typically required to apply for foreign marketing authorizations at a national level. However, within the European Union, registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one European Union member state. Typically, if the regulatory authority is satisfied that a company has presented adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy, then the regulatory authority will grant a marketing authorization. This foreign regulatory approval process, however, involves risks similar or identical to the risks associated with FDA approval discussed above, and therefore we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the appropriate marketing authorization for any product in any particular country. Failure to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and regulations would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, federal, state and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of new drugs are subject to future changes. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, effect or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Company-sponsored research and development expenses (excluding non-cash compensation and acquired in-process research and development expenses) totaled $24,182,000 in 2005, $56,139,000 in 2006, and $74,889,000 in 2007. “Other research and development expenses” consist primarily of salaries and related personnel costs, fees paid to consultants and outside service providers for clinical and laboratory development, facilities-related and other expenses relating to the design, development, testing, and enhancement of our product candidates and technologies, as well as expenses related to in-licensing of new product candidates. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview.” EMPLOYEES As of February 22, 2008, we had 50 full- and part-time employees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. 23 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. These factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies. In addition, we have incurred operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $278.3 million. As we expand our research and development efforts, we will incur increasing losses. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates and cannot be sure we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations and successfully commercialize our drug candidates. Risks Associated with Our Product Development Efforts If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are planning clinical trials that will seek to enroll patients with the same diseases as we are studying. In addition, one of our current trials for Sulonex is designed to continue until a pre-determined number of events have occurred to the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from lower than expected event rates and may also incur increased costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials on a cost-effective or timely basis. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity and risk as we are subject to events affecting countries outside the United States. Additionally, we have finalized an SPA agreement with the FDA for the Phase 3 and Phase 4 clinical trials of Sulonex. The clinical plan to support a new drug application, or NDA, approval for Sulonex under subpart H, as agreed upon with the FDA under an SPA, consists of: (i) a single Phase 3 trial in patients with microalbuminuria based on the surrogate marker of regression of microalbuminuria as the primary endpoint; (ii) supportive data from previously conducted clinical studies; and (iii) substantial recruitment into our Phase 4 confirmatory study that will measure clinical outcomes in patients with overt nephropathy, or macroalbuminuria. The subpart H process is complex and requires careful execution. No assurance can be given that we will be able to meet the requirements set forth in the SPA. Even if we meet those requirements, the FDA is not obligated to grant approval of our NDA for Sulonex. Many companies who have been granted an SPA and/or the right to utilize an accelerated approval approach have failed to obtain approval. Since we are seeking accelerated approval under an SPA, we may be subject to enhanced scrutiny. Additionally, even if the primary endpoint is achieved, an SPA does not guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, changes in scientific or medical evidence or sentiment or internal inconsistency in the data prior to making their final decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an advisory panel prior to making their final decision. In addition, the FDA will have access to, and will review, the safety database for our Phase 4 clinical trial prior to granting approval. Any concerns arising from that review could delay or prevent the approval of Sulonex. If the FDA approves Sulonex for marketing on the basis of our Phase 3 trial, our Phase 4 clinical trial may yield insufficient efficacy data or give rise to safety concerns, which could result in withdrawal of such approval or could cause us to withdraw the product from the market. Moreover, negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we hope to conduct or adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. 24 Additionally, we have never filed an NDA or similar application for approval in the United States or in any country, which may result in a delay in, or the rejection of, our filing of an NDA or similar application. During the drug development process, regulatory agencies will typically ask questions of drug sponsors. While we endeavor to answer all such questions in a timely fashion, or in the NDA filing, some questions may not be answered by the time we file our NDA. Unless the FDA waives the requirement to answer any such unanswered questions, our NDA may be delayed or rejected. For example, with respect to Sulonex, during the development process, the FDA has raised certain non-clinical questions. To answer some of these questions requires a bioassay for which the analytical tools do not currently exist. The FDA has requested that we diligently pursue such an assay. We believe that we have diligently pursued, and will continue to diligently pursue, such an assay. If the FDA determines that we have not been diligent, or otherwise determines that our NDA fails to answer required questions, then our NDA could be delayed or rejected. In addition, NDA approval can be delayed or denied due to unanswered questions relating to chemistry, manufacturing and controls. Our ability to resolve any such open questions might be complicated by the recent investigations into heparin manufacturing in China. All of those factors could affect the filing or ultimate approvability of Sulonex. Failure to obtain approval on a timely basis, or at all, would have a material adverse effect on us. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. If our drug candidates do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. We will need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we can apply for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Negative or inconclusive results or medical events during a clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. Furthermore, interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be obtained in later studies. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite positive results in initial clinical testing. There can be no assurance that the results from the Sulonex Phase 3 study will track the data from the pilot Collaborative Study Group Phase 2 study or the DiNAS Phase 2 study, or that the results from the Sulonex Phase 4 study will yield sufficient efficacy data. Results from these earlier Sulonex studies may not be indicative of results from future clinical trials and the risk remains that the pivotal program for Sulonex may generate efficacy data that will be insufficient for the approval of the drug, or may raise safety concerns that may prevent approval of the drug. Interpretation of the prior safety and efficacy data of Sulonex, or our other drug candidates, may be flawed and there can be no assurance that safety and/or efficacy concerns from the prior data were overlooked or misinterpreted, which in subsequent, larger studies appear and prevents approval of Sulonex or our other drugs candidates. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving what appeared to be promising results in earlier trials. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be materially impaired. In addition, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval in the United States and abroad and, accordingly, may encounter unforeseen problems and delays in the approval process. While we have engaged a clinical research organization with experience in conducting regulatory trials, errors in the conduct, monitoring and/or auditing could invalidate the results from a regulatory perspective. Because all of our proprietary technologies are licensed to us by third parties, termination of these license agreements would prevent us from developing our drug candidates. We do not own any of our drug candidates. We have licensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to our drugs candidates from third parties. These license agreements require us to meet development milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the licenses. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our license agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. 25 We rely on third parties to manufacture and test our products. If these third parties do not successfully manufacture and test our products, our business will be harmed. We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We intend to continue, in whole or in part, to use third parties to manufacture and test our products for use in clinical trials and for future sales. We may not be able to enter into future contract agreements with these third-parties on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving production yields, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, compliance with FDA and foreign regulations, production costs and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Our third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market our drug candidates. In addition, our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding foreign governmental agencies to ensure strict compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices as well as other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. The same issues apply to contract analytical services which we use for testing of our products. We will not have control over, other than by contract and periodic oversight, third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. Switching or engaging multiple third-party contractors to produce our products may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers is limited, particularly in the case of Sulonex, and the process by which multiple manufacturers make the drug substance must be identical at each manufacturing facility. It may be difficult for us to find and engage replacement or multiple manufacturers quickly and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, if we need to change manufacturers, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. If third-party manufacturers fail to deliver the required quantities of our drug candidates on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, we will not be able to commercialize our products as planned. We have entered into a relationship with SPL, a U.S.-based contract manufacturer, to manufacture Sulonex which we believe will be adequate to satisfy our current clinical trial and early commercial market needs. Manufacture will be conducted in a manufacturing suite built within their current facility by Keryx, which they will operate on our behalf. We believe this suite will be suitable to manufacture launch and initial commercialization (1 to 3 years) quantities of Sulonex. This new manufacturing suite has been completed and facility validation is in progress, with expected completion in 2008. As we move forward, we plan to build additional manufacturing capacity to meet the future demands for Sulonex and create back-up manufacturing capabilities. As with all heparin-like compounds, the end product is sensitive to the manufacturing process utilized. Accordingly, as we scale-up we will need to accurately reproduce the established process on the larger scale to ensure successful commercialization of Sulonex. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in this endeavor. In addition, because we do not have a bioassay for Sulonex, we may have difficulty qualifying materials from multiple sources, including materials produced from our larger scale facility and/or from additional facilities, which could delay or impair our commercialization efforts. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital expenditures to develop commercial production capacity. Through December 31, 2007, we have spent approximately $11.2 million in capital expenditures building the current manufacturing suite. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for Sulonex, we may incur significant losses disposing of the assets associated with our manufacturing suite. If we are not able to obtain the raw materials required for the manufacture of our lead product candidate, Sulonex, our ability to develop and market this product candidate will be substantially harmed. Key raw materials for Sulonex, our lead product candidate, are derived from porcine mucosa. Long-term supplies for Sulonex could be affected by factors over which we have no control, for example, limitations in the supply of porcine mucosa and the demand for other heparin products. We estimate, in part, based on the number of pigs killed worldwide and estimates of projected supplies of porcine mucosa, that there is enough potential supply of this raw material to commercialize Sulonex. If our estimates of the potential supply of this key raw material are not accurate or we cannot secure adequate amounts of the potential supply of such material, then the market potential of Sulonex will not be realized. Diseases affecting the world supply of pigs, or safety issues associated with heparin products, generally, or specifically associated with heparin manufactured by our suppliers, including SPL, could also have an actual or perceived negative impact on our ability, or the ability of our contract manufacturers, to source, make and/or sell Sulonex. Supply of heparin from China is important to all participants in the heparin business and, therefore, we are following closely the investigations into applicable controls and regulations in China to determine its impact, if any, on Keryx and Sulonex, or on our supplier, SPL, which, in turn, could have an adverse effect on us. If these investigations result in a reduction in the amount of porcine mucosa available from China, or any significant delay in obtaining those supplies, it could adversely affect the commercial success of Sulonex. 26 If we do not establish or maintain manufacturing, drug development and marketing arrangements with third parties, we may be unable to commercialize our products. We do not possess all of the capabilities to fully commercialize our products on our own. From time to time, we may need to contract with third parties to: ● manufacture our product candidates; ● assist us in developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing some of our compounds and technologies; and ● market and distribute our drug products. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter into agreements with such third parties on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully contract with third parties for these services when needed, or if existing arrangements for these services are terminated, whether or not through our actions, or if such third parties do not fully perform under these arrangements, we may have to delay, scale back or end one or more of our drug development programs or seek to develop or commercialize our products independently, which could result in delays. Furthermore, such failure could result in the termination of license rights to one or more of our products. If these manufacturing, development or marketing agreements take the form of a partnership or strategic alliance, such arrangements may provide our collaborators with significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the development and commercialization of our products. Accordingly, to the extent that we rely on third parties to research, develop or commercialize our products, we are unable to control whether such products will be scientifically or commercially successful. Additionally, if these third parties fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform their work in a satisfactory manner, in spite of our efforts to monitor and ensure the quality of such work, we may face delays in achieving the regulatory milestones required for commercialization of one or more drug candidates. Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we engage CROs to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding our products through the FDA review and approval process. If the CROs fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of one or more drug candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of drug candidates. Other Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our products effectively. In the event Sulonex is approved by the FDA, we currently plan to conduct our own sales and marketing effort to support the drug, and we may adopt this strategy with respect to future drug products. We currently have limited experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To directly market and distribute any products, we must build a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We may attempt to build such a sales and marketing organization on our own or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. For some market opportunities, we may need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. 27 Notwithstanding our current plans to commercialize Sulonex and our other drug candidates, from time to time we may consider offers or hold discussions with companies for partnerships or the acquisition of our company or any of our products. Any accepted offer may preclude us from the execution of our current business plan. Even if we obtain FDA approval to market our drug products, if they fail to achieve market acceptance, we will never record meaningful revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be commercially successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our drug products will depend on a number of factors, including: ● perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; ● the rates of adoption of our products by medical practitioners and the target populations for our products; ● the potential advantages that our products offer over existing treatment methods; ● the cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; ● the availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our products; ● the side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products; and ● the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Because we expect sales of our products, if approved, to generate substantially all of our revenues in the long-term, the failure of our drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or other sources of revenue. If our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that could render our drug products obsolete or noncompetitive. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. The drugs that we are attempting to develop will have to compete with existing therapies. In addition, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products. Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. As of February 22, 2008, we had 50 full and part-time employees. To successfully develop our drug candidates, we must be able to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In addition, if we lose the services of our current personnel, in particular, Michael S. Weiss, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our ability to continue to execute on our business plan could be materially impaired. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Weiss, this agreement does not prevent him from terminating his employment with us. 28 Any acquisitions we make may require a significant amount of our available cash and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may effect acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, products, technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. Acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, including: ● difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business; ● our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; ● our inability to maintain the acquired company's relationship with key third parties, such as alliance partners; ● exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; ● the diversion of our management's attention from our core business; and ● the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: ● government and health administration authorities; ● private health insurers; ● managed care programs; and ● other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, their market acceptance may be reduced. In particular, we are currently projecting that the price of Sulonex will be at a significant premium to the currently marketed products that are approved for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy. The inability to obtain adequate reimbursement for Sulonex would limit our ability to generate revenue and prevent us from realizing the market potential of Sulonex. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price) and government control of prescription drug pricing. The pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. 29 We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials, the future sale of any approved drug candidates and new technologies, and the sale of Accumin, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates or limit commercialization of any approved products. We believe that we have obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and the sale of Accumin. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of any approved products if marketing approval is obtained; however, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We also may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: ● decreased demand for a product; ● injury to our reputation; ● our inability to continue to develop a drug candidate; ● withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and ● loss of revenues. Consequently, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. In connection with providing our clinical trial management and site recruitment services, we may be exposed to liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Online Collaborative Oncology Group, Inc., or OCOG, a subsidiary we acquired through our acquisition of ACCESS Oncology, provides clinical trial management and site recruitment services to us as well as other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. In conducting the activities of OCOG, any failure on our part to comply with applicable governmental regulations or contractual obligations could expose us to liability to our clients and could have a material adverse effect on us. We also could be held liable for errors or omissions in connection with the services we perform. In addition, the wrongful or erroneous delivery of health care information or services may expose us to liability. If we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any such claims, the losses could be material. Our corporate compliance efforts cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the United States and numerous entities outside of the United States. We are a relatively small company with 50 full and part-time employees. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have a product candidate in late-stage clinical development, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we believe that our corporate compliance program is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, we cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. 30 Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our current cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable and investment securities may not be adequate to support our operations for the length of time that we have estimated. We believe that our $64.7 million in cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable and investment securities as of December 31, 2007 will be sufficient to enable us to meet our planned operating needs and capital expenditures through the date of the release of our Phase 3 Sulonex data, expected in the first quarter of 2008. Depending on the outcome of our Phase 3 study, our cash requirements will vary dramatically. In the event of a negative outcome, we believe our current capital resources will enable us to meet our revised operating needs and capital expenditures for at least 12 months from January 2008. Our forecast of the period of time through which our cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable, and investment securities will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties. The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include the following: ● the timing of completion and results from clinical trials for our drug candidates, especially Sulonex; ● the timing of expenses associated with manufacturing and product development of the proprietary drug candidates within our portfolio and those that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired; ● the timing of the in-licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities; ● the progress of the development efforts of parties with whom we have entered, or may enter, into research and development agreements; ● our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; and ● the costs involved in prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. As of February 22, 2008, $12.0 million of our investment securities are invested in auction note securities. Our auction note securities are public securities with long-term nominal maturities for which the interest rates are reset through a dutch auction each month. The monthly auctions historically have provided a liquid market for these securities. Our investments in auction note securities represent interests in student loan-backed securities. Consistent with our investment policy guidelines, our auction note securities all had “triple A” credit ratings at the time of purchase. Global credit and capital markets are increasingly experiencing liquidity issues. None of our auction note securities held at December 31, 2007, failed an auction in 2007 or 2008; however, a $3 million investment we made in January 2008 failed two auctions held in February 2008, as the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders. We will continue to attempt to sell this $3 million investment security every seven days until an auction is successful. Our other $9 million of investments in auction note securities have their next scheduled auction dates in March 2008. If uncertainties in the credit and capital markets continue, these markets deteriorate further or we experience any ratings downgrades on the auction note securities in our portfolio, we may incur impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings, and the lack of liquidity of our auction note securities could have a material impact on our financial flexibility and ability to fund our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, our business would be harmed. We expect to use, rather than generate, funds from operations for the foreseeable future. Based on our current plans, we believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, interest receivable, and investment securities will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements through the date of the release of our Phase 3 Sulonex data, expected in the first quarter of 2008. Depending on the outcome of our Phase 3 study, our cash requirements will vary dramatically. In the event of a negative outcome, we believe our current capital resources will enable us to meet our revised operating needs and capital expenditures for at least 12 months from January 2008. However, the actual amount of funds that we will need prior to or after that date will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. As a result, we may need funds sooner or in different amounts than we currently anticipate, depending upon: ● the timing of completion and results from clinical trials for our drug candidates, especially Sulonex; ● the progress of our development activities; ● the progress of our research activities; ● the number and scope of our development programs; ● the costs associated with commercialization activities, including manufacturing, marketing and sales; ● our ability to establish and maintain current and new licensing or acquisition arrangements; ● our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; ● the costs involved in enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights; and ● the costs and timing of regulatory approvals. 31 If our capital resources are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities or sell or license to third parties some or all of our intellectual property. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted. If we need to raise additional funds through the sale or license of our intellectual property, we may be unable to do so on terms favorable to us. Our prior restructurings may result in additional Israeli-related liabilities. In July 2003, Keryx (Israel) Ltd., one of our Israeli subsidiaries, vacated its Jerusalem facility, after giving advance notice to RMPA Properties Ltd., the landlord. On May 1, 2005, the landlord filed suit in the Circuit Court of Jerusalem in Jerusalem, Israel, claiming that Keryx (Israel) Ltd., among other parties, was liable as a result of the alleged breach of the lease agreement. In addition to Keryx (Israel) Ltd., the landlord brought suit against Keryx Biomedical Technologies Ltd., another of our Israeli subsidiaries, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., Michael S. Weiss, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Robert Trachtenberg, a former employee of Keryx. The amount demanded by the landlord totals 4,345,313 New Israeli Shekels, or approximately $1,208,000, and includes rent for the entire remaining term of the lease, as well as property taxes and other costs allegedly incurred by the landlord. In August 2003, the landlord claimed a bank deposit, in the amount of $222,000, which was previously provided as security in connection with the lease agreement. We intend to vigorously defend the suit. In July 2005, Keryx (Israel) Ltd. and Keryx Biomedical Technologies Ltd. filed an answer to the landlord's complaint. In October 2005, Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. filed an answer to the landlord's complaint. Generally, each answer challenges the merits of the landlord's cause of action as to each defendant. All defendants, except Keryx (Israel) Ltd., have filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The plaintiff has filed a response to each answer. At this time, the Circuit Court of Jerusalem has not issued a decision with respect to the motion to dismiss. A hearing on a motion by Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. to vacate service of process outside of Israel was held in September 2006. On October 15, 2006, the Circuit Court of Jerusalem held that the service of process on Keryx was sustained. We appealed this holding. The appeal was denied on September 18, 2007, and we filed a petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court of Israel. Our motion for certiorari was denied as well. The next preliminary hearing is scheduled for February 28, 2008. We have not yet recorded a charge to reflect any potential liability associated with this lawsuit, as it is too early to accurately estimate the amount of the charge, if any. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our drug products and technologies and successfully defend these patents against third-party challenges. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, the patents we use may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative drug products or technologies or design around our patented drug products and technologies. The patents we use may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require our employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, this may not be sufficient to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, we share ownership and publication rights to data relating to some of our drug products and technologies with our research collaborators and scientific advisors. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of this information, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information will be at risk. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend substantial time and money defending such claims and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Third parties may assert that we are using their proprietary intellectual property without authorization. In addition, third parties may have or obtain patents in the future and claim that our drug products or technologies infringe their patents. If we are required to defend against patent suits brought by third parties, or if we sue third parties to protect our patent rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs, and our management's attention may be diverted from operating our business. In addition, any legal action against our licensors or us that seeks damages or an injunction of our commercial activities relating to our drug products or technologies could subject us to monetary liability and require our licensors or us to obtain a license to continue to use our drug products or technologies. We cannot predict whether our licensors or we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. 32 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of equity in the future. On December 30, 2005, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3, that was declared effective by the SEC on January 13, 2006, providing for the offering of up to $150 million of our common stock. Following our registered direct offering of common stock to two institutional investors that was completed in March 2006, there remains approximately $67 million available for sale on this shelf registration statement. Future sales pursuant to this registration statement could depress the market for our common stock. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes stock or other securities, our stockholders may be significantly diluted. We may be required to issue up to 3,372,422 shares of our common stock to former stockholders of ACCESS Oncology upon the achievement of certain milestones, of which 500,000 shares may be payable in 2008 upon the reaching of the first milestone. In addition, we may enter into arrangements with third parties permitting us to issue shares of common stock in lieu of certain cash payments upon the achievement of milestones. Our stock price can be volatile, which increases the risk of litigation, and may result in a significant decline in the value of your investment. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ● developments concerning our drug candidates; ● announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; ● introductions or announcements of new products by us or our competitors; ● announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; ● expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; ● conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; ● changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and ● additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. 33 Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 