ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties. If any of the following occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed. These factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception. We expect to continue to incur losses in the future and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history. You should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies. In addition, we have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future and may never become profitable. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $341.8 million. As we continue our research and development efforts, we will incur increasing losses. We may continue to incur substantial operating losses even if we begin to generate revenues from our drug candidates. We have not yet commercialized any of our drug candidates and cannot be sure that we will ever be able to do so. Even if we commercialize one or more of our drug candidates, we may not become profitable. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on a number of factors, including our ability to complete our development efforts, obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, successfully complete any post-approval regulatory obligations and successfully commercialize our drug candidates. 21 Risks Associated with Our Product Development Efforts If we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trial programs, or if such clinical trials take longer to complete than we project, our ability to execute our current business strategy will be adversely affected. Whether or not and how quickly we complete clinical trials is dependent in part upon the rate at which we are able to engage clinical trial sites and, thereafter, the rate of enrollment of patients, and the rate we collect, clean, lock and analyze the clinical trial database. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, the existence of competitive clinical trials, and whether existing or new drugs are approved for the indication we are studying. We are aware that other companies are currently conducting or planning clinical trials that seek to enroll patients with the same diseases that we are studying. Certain clinical trials are designed to continue until a pre-determined number of events have occurred in the patients enrolled. Trials such as this are subject to delays stemming from patient withdrawal and from lower than expected event rates. They may also incur additional costs if enrollment is increased in order to achieve the desired number of events. If we experience delays in identifying and contracting with sites and/or in patient enrollment in our clinical trial programs, we may incur additional costs and delays in our development programs, and may not be able to complete our clinical trials in a cost-effective or timely manner. In addition, conducting multi-national studies adds another level of complexity and risk. We are subject to events affecting countries outside the U.S. Negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials we conduct or unanticipated adverse medical events could cause us to have to repeat or terminate the clinical trials. We may also opt to change the delivery method, formulation or dosage which could affect efficacy results for the drug candidate. For example, we have limited clinical experience with our new one gram caplet formulation for Zerenex, and therefore, there is no assurance that this new formulation will be safe and efficacious when assessed in a large and/or long-term clinical trial setting. We used this one gram caplet formulation in our completed Phase 3 short-term study for Zerenex and are currently using it in our ongoing Phase 3 long-term study for Zerenex. Accordingly, we may not be able to complete the clinical trials within an acceptable time frame, if at all. In December 2009, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in relapsed / refractory multiple myeloma patients pursuant to a SPA with the FDA. In April 2010, we initiated a Phase 3 clinical trial for KRX-0401 (perifosine) in patients with refractory advanced colorectal cancer also pursuant to a SPA with the FDA. In May 2010 and in September 2010, we initiated two Phase 3 clinical trials for Zerenex (ferric citrate) as a treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with end-stage renal disease pursuant to a SPA with the FDA. Many companies which have been granted SPAs and/or the right to utilize Fast Track or accelerated approvals have ultimately failed to obtain final approval to market their drugs. Since we are seeking approvals under SPAs, based on protocol designs negotiated with the FDA, we may be subject to enhanced scrutiny. Additionally, even if the primary endpoint in a Phase 3 clinical trial is achieved, a SPA does not guarantee approval. The FDA may raise issues of safety, study conduct, bias, deviation from the protocol, statistical power, patient completion rates, changes in scientific or medical parameters or internal inconsistencies in the data prior to making its final decision. The FDA may also seek the guidance of an outside advisory committee prior to making its final decision. Additionally, we have never filed a NDA, or similar application for approval in the U.S., or in any country, which may result in a delay in, or the rejection of, our filing of an NDA or similar application. During the drug development process, regulatory agencies will typically ask questions of drug sponsors. While we endeavor to answer all such questions in a timely fashion, or in the NDA filing, some questions may remain unanswered by the time we file our NDA. Unless the FDA opts not to pursue these questions, submission of a NDA may be delayed or rejected. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. If our drug candidates do not receive the necessary regulatory approvals, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. We have not received, and may never receive, regulatory approval for the commercial sale of any of our drug candidates. We will need to conduct significant additional research and human testing before we can apply for product approval with the FDA or with regulatory authorities of other countries. Pre-clinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically depends on the nature, complexity and novelty of the product. It requires the expenditure of substantial resources. Data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical tests can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. The FDA may pose additional questions or request further clinical substantiation. It may take us many years to complete the testing of our drug candidates and failure can occur at any stage of this process. Negative or inconclusive results or medical events during a pre-clinical or clinical trial could cause us to delay or terminate our development efforts. Furthermore, interim results of preclinical or clinical studies do not necessarily predict their final results, and acceptable results in early studies might not be obtained in later studies. Safety signals detected during clinical studies and pre-clinical animal studies, such as the gastrointestinal bleeding and liver toxicities that have been seen in some high-dose, ferric citrate canine studies, may require us to perform additional safety studies or analyses, which could delay the development of the drug or lead to a decision to discontinue development of the drug. We have submitted to the FDA data from our short-term and long-term rat and canine pre-clinical studies for Zerenex. While the FDA has reviewed the data from these studies and has permitted us to continue with our Phase 3 clinical program, we can provide no assurance that the FDA will not raise any safety concerns in the future from these studies. Drug candidates in the later stages of clinical development may fail to show the desired traits of safety and efficacy despite positive results in initial clinical testing. The risk remains that a pivotal program may generate efficacy data that will be insufficiently persuasive for the approval of the drug, or may raise safety concerns that may prevent approval of the drug. The risk also remains that a clinical program conducted by one of our partners may raise efficacy or safety concerns that may prevent approval of the drug. Interpretation of the prior pre-clinical and clinical safety and efficacy data of our drug candidates may be flawed. There can be no assurance that safety and/or efficacy concerns from the prior data were not overlooked or misinterpreted, which in subsequent, larger studies might appear and prevent approval of such drug candidates. Top-line results are based on a preliminary analysis of then available data (both safety and efficacy) and there is the risk that that such findings and conclusions could change following a more comprehensive review of the data. 22 We may not be able to replicate in our Phase 3 clinical program for Zerenex, the efficacy and safety results for Zerenex observed in the previous Phase 3 and Phase 2 clinical trials and the OLE clinical trial. The positive effects of Zerenex on IV iron and ESA use observed in the OLE clinical trial may not be reproducible. Further, any negative effects of the potential absorption and/or accumulation of ferric (iron) or citrate would significantly limit the likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval for Zerenex. In addition, we may not be able to replicate in the Phase 3 trials for KRX-0401, the efficacy and safety results for KRX-0401 observed in previous clinical trials. In addition, we will need to re-input our safety information on KRX-0401 into a database compliant with Good Clinical Practice. We can provide no assurance that safety concerns will not subsequently arise. Independent Data Safety Monitoring Committees, or DSMCs, are monitoring the safety of our Phase 3 clinical trials for KRX-0401 (perifosine) and Zerenex (ferric citrate) and, in accordance with the protocols for the clinical trials, will periodically assess whether the Phase 3 trials should continue as planned. The DSMCs have the authority to recommend placing a trial on clinical hold, temporarily or permanently, or recommend termination of the clinical trial, based on an evaluation of safety and efficacy. The DSMCs are independent from us and we have no control or influence on their decisions. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving what appeared to be promising results in earlier trials. If we experience delays in the testing or approval process or if we need to perform more or larger clinical trials than originally planned, our financial results and the commercial prospects for our drug candidates may be materially impaired. In addition, we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and abroad. Accordingly, we may encounter unforeseen problems and delays in the approval process. Although we may engage a clinical research organization with experience in conducting regulatory trials, errors in the conduct, monitoring and/or auditing could potentially invalidate the results. Because all of our proprietary technologies are licensed to us by third parties, termination of these license agreements would prevent us from developing our drug candidates. We do not own any of our drug candidates. We have licensed the rights, patent or otherwise, to our drugs candidates from third parties. These license agreements require us to meet development milestones and impose development and commercialization due diligence requirements on us. In addition, under these agreements, we must pay royalties on sales of products resulting from licensed technologies and pay the patent filing, prosecution and maintenance costs related to the licenses. If we do not meet our obligations in a timely manner or if we otherwise breach the terms of our license agreements, our licensors could terminate the agreements, and we would lose the rights to our drug candidates. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may have disagreements with our licensors or collaborators regarding the terms of our agreements or ownership of proprietary rights, which could lead to delays in the research, development and commercialization of our drug candidates or could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which would be time-consuming and expensive. We rely on third parties to manufacture and analytically test our products. If these third parties do not successfully manufacture and test our products, our business will be harmed. We have limited experience in manufacturing products for clinical or commercial purposes. We intend to continue, in whole or in part, to use third parties to manufacture and analytically test our products for use in clinical trials and for future sales. We may not be able to enter into future contract agreements with these third-parties on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our products on a large scale at a competitive cost and in accordance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements, including requirements from federal and state environmental and safety (e.g. EPA, OSHA) regulatory agencies. Prior to approval, we will need to conduct validation studies that the FDA must review and approve. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may result in unanticipated technical challenges and may require additional validation studies that the FDA must review and approve. Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties in scaling up production, including problems involving raw material supplies, production yields, scaled-up product characteristics, quality control and assurance, shortage of qualified personnel, compliance with FDA and foreign regulations, production costs and development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. These risks become more acute as we scale up for commercial quantities, where a reliable source of raw material supplies becomes critical to commercial success. For example, given the large quantity of materials required for ferric citrate production, as we approach commercialization for Zerenex we will need to ensure an adequate supply of starting materials that meet quality, quantity and cost standards. Failure to achieve this level of supply can jeopardize the successful commercialization of the product. Moreover, issues that may arise in our current transition to a commercial batch manufacturer for Zerenex can lead to delays in our planned clinical trials and development timelines, and could affect our ability to complete our clinical trials on a cost-effective or timely basis, if at all. 23 Our third-party manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required by us to successfully produce and market our drug candidates. In addition, our contract manufacturers will be subject to ongoing periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA and corresponding foreign governmental agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMP, as well as other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we periodically audit our contractors for adherence to regulatory requirements, we cannot assure you that unforeseen changes at these contractors may occur that change their regulatory standing. The same issues apply to contract analytical services which we use for testing of our products. We will not have control over, other than by contract and periodic oversight, third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. We are currently developing analytical tools for ferric citrate active pharmaceutical ingredient and drug product testing. Failure to develop effective analytical tools could result in regulatory or technical delay or could jeopardize our ability to complete Phase 3 clinical trials and/or obtain FDA approval. Switching or engaging multiple third-party contractors to produce our products may be difficult because the number of potential manufacturers may be limited and the process by which multiple manufacturers make the drug substance must be identical at each manufacturing facility. It may be difficult for us to find and engage replacement or multiple manufacturers quickly and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. For Zerenex, we currently rely on one supplier to source the ferric citrate active pharmaceutical ingredient. The loss of this source of supply would result in significant additional costs and delays in our development program. Moreover, if we need to change manufacturers after commercialization, the FDA and corresponding foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance, which will involve testing and additional inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. If we do not establish or maintain manufacturing, drug development and marketing arrangements with third parties, we may be unable to commercialize our products. We do not possess all of the capabilities to fully commercialize our products on our own. From time to time, we may need to contract with third parties to: ● manufacture our product candidates; ● assist us in developing, testing and obtaining regulatory approval for and commercializing some of our compounds and technologies; and ● market and distribute our drug products. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter into agreements with such third parties on terms that are acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to successfully contract with third parties for these services when needed, or if existing arrangements for these services are terminated, whether or not through our actions, or if such third parties do not fully perform under these arrangements, we may have to delay, scale back or end one or more of our drug development programs or seek to develop or commercialize our products independently, which could result in delays. Furthermore, such failure could result in the termination of license rights to one or more of our products. If these manufacturing, development or marketing agreements take the form of a partnership or strategic alliance, such arrangements may provide our collaborators with significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to the development and commercialization of our products. Accordingly, to the extent that we rely on third parties to research, develop or commercialize our products, we are unable to control whether such products will be scientifically or commercially successful. Additionally, if these third parties fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform their work in a satisfactory manner, in spite of our efforts to monitor and ensure the quality of such work, we may face delays in achieving the regulatory milestones required for commercialization of one or more drug candidates. If, in the future, the market conditions for raising capital deteriorate, we may be forced to rely predominantly or entirely on our ability to contract with third parties for our manufacturing, drug development and marketing. If we are unable to contract with such third parties, we may be forced to limit or suspend or terminate the development of some or all of our product candidates. Our reliance on third parties, such as clinical research organizations, or CROs, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, clinical trials if such CROs fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we engage CROs to conduct and manage clinical studies and to assist us in guiding our products through the FDA review and approval process. If the CROs fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of one or more drug candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials and the market approval of drug candidates. 24 Other Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to develop adequate sales, marketing or distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform some of these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our products effectively. In the event that one or more of our drug candidates are approved by the FDA, we currently plan to conduct our own sales and marketing effort to support the drugs. We currently have limited experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To directly market and distribute any products, we must build a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and distribution capabilities. We may attempt to build such a sales and marketing organization on our own or with the assistance of a contract sales organization. For some market opportunities, we may want or need to enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements with larger pharmaceutical or biotechnology firms in order to increase the commercial success of our products. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities of our own or enter into such arrangements with third parties in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and some or all of the revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, and these efforts may not be successful. Additionally, building marketing and distribution capabilities may be more expensive than we anticipate, requiring us to divert capital from other intended purposes or preventing us from building our marketing and distribution capabilities to the desired levels. Notwithstanding our current plans to commercialize our drug candidates, from time to time we may consider offers or hold discussions with companies for partnerships or the acquisition of our company or any of our products. Any accepted offer may preclude us from commercializing our products effectively. Even if we obtain FDA approval to market our drug products, if they fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never record meaningful revenues. Even if our products are approved for sale, they may not be commercially successful in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our drug products will depend on a number of factors, including: ● perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our product candidates, including, but not limited to, the perception of the long-term effects of the potential absorption and/or accumulation of ferric (iron) or citrate resulting from the use of Zerenex; ● the rates of adoption of our products by medical practitioners and the target populations for our products; ● the potential advantages that our products offer over existing treatment methods; ● the cost-effectiveness of our products relative to competing products; ● the availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our products; ● the side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning our products or similar products; and ● the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts. Because we expect sales of our products, if approved, to generate substantially all of our revenues in the long-term, the failure of our drugs to find market acceptance would harm our business and could require us to seek additional financing or other sources of revenue. If our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products, our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies that are active in different but related fields represent substantial competition for us. Many of our competitors have significantly greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing than we do. These organizations also compete with us to recruit qualified personnel, attract partners for joint ventures or other collaborations, and license technologies that are competitive with ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that could render our drug products obsolete or noncompetitive. To compete successfully in this industry we must identify novel and unique drugs or methods of treatment and then complete the development of those drugs as treatments in advance of our competitors. 25 The drugs that we are attempting to develop will have to compete with existing therapies. For example, KRX-0401 (perifosine), if approved in the U.S. would compete with other anti-cancer agents, such as mTOR inhibitors. Pfizer Inc., Novartis AG and Ariad Pharmaceuticals are developing mTOR inhibitors for use in cancer and Pfizer’s mTOR inhibitor, temsirolimus, and Novartis’ mTOR inhibitor, everolimus, have been approved to treat patients with advanced kidney disease. Biotechnology companies such as Amgen Inc., Biogen-Idec, Inc., ImClone Systems, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company), Merck & Co., Inc., Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Takeda Pharmaceutical Company), Novartis AG, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and OSI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are developing and, in some cases, marketing drugs to treat various diseases, including cancer, by inhibiting cell-signaling pathways. In addition, we are aware of a number of small and large companies developing competitive products that target Akt and the PI3K pathway. Zerenex, if approved in the U.S., would compete with other FDA approved phosphate binders such as Renagel® (sevelamer hydrochloride) and Renvela® (sevelamer carbonate), both marketed by Genzyme Corporation, PhosLo® (calcium acetate), marketed by Fresenius Medical Care, and Fosrenol® (lanthanum carbonate), marketed by Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc, as well as over-the-counter calcium carbonate products such as TUMS® and metal-based options such as aluminum and magnesium. A generic formulation of PhosLo® manufactured by Roxane Laboratories, Inc. was launched in the U.S. in October 2008. In addition, upon the expiration of their core patents (expected in 2014), generic formulations of Renagel® and Renvela® may be launched, which could have a material effect on the pricing of phosphate binders. Our commercial opportunities may be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer than our drug products. Other companies have drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development to treat diseases for which we are also seeking to discover and develop drug products. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than our drug candidates and may be commercialized earlier. Even if we are successful in developing effective drugs, our products may not compete successfully with products produced by our competitors. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our operations could be disrupted and our business could be harmed. As of February 15, 2011, we had 25 full and part-time employees. To successfully develop our drug candidates, we must be able to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Our limited resources may hinder our efforts to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. In addition, if we lose the services of our current personnel, in particular, Ron Bentsur, our Chief Executive Officer, our ability to continue to execute on our business plan could be materially impaired. Although we have an employment agreement with Mr. Bentsur, such agreement does not prevent him from terminating his employment with us. Any acquisitions we make may require a significant amount of our available cash and may not be scientifically or commercially successful. As part of our business strategy, we may effect acquisitions to obtain additional businesses, products, technologies, capabilities and personnel. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes cash, we may be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. Acquisitions involve a number of operational risks, including: ● difficulty and expense of assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired business; ● our inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business; ● our inability to maintain the acquired company's relationship with key third parties, such as alliance partners; ● exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to the acquisition; ● the diversion of our management's attention from our core business; and ● the potential impairment of goodwill and write-off of in-process research and development costs, adversely affecting our reported results of operations. 26 The status of reimbursement from third-party payors for newly approved health care drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate reimbursement could limit our ability to generate revenue. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products may depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: ● government and health administration authorities; ● private health insurers; ● managed care programs; and ● other third-party payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly are attempting to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new drugs and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for our products. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, their market acceptance may be reduced. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business prospects and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system, such as proposals relating to the pricing of healthcare products and services in the U.S. or internationally, the reimportation of drugs into the U.S. from other countries (where they are then sold at a lower price), and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. In the U.S., health care reform legislation titled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Reconciliation Act was signed into law on March 23, 2010. This comprehensive legislation will affect the terms of public and private health insurance and have a substantial impact on the pharmaceutical industry. For example, the new law will impose an annual fee on manufacturers of branded prescription pharmaceuticals that will impact our products. Regulations to implement this and other provisions related to the research, marketing and sale of prescription pharmaceutical products could result in a decrease in our stock price or limit our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. Government-financed comparative efficacy research could also result in new practice guidelines, labeling or reimbursement policies that discourages use of our products. For example, in July 2010, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, released its final rule to implement a bundled prospective payment system for end-stage renal disease facilities as required by the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act, or MIPPA. The final rule did not include oral medications without IV equivalents, such as phosphate binders, in the bundle until January 1, 2014. If phosphate binders are bundled into the composite rate beginning in 2014, separate Medicare reimbursement will no longer be available for phosphate binders. While it is too early to project the impact bundling may have on the phosphate binder industry, the impact could potentially cause dramatic price reductions for phosphate binders. On September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-marketing studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluations and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA's exercise of this authority may result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, which may also increase costs related to complying with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and increase potential FDA restrictions on the sale or distribution of approved products. 27 We face product liability risks and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The use of our drug candidates in clinical trials, the future sale of any approved drug candidates and new technologies, and our sale of Accumin prior to its discontinuation, exposes us to liability claims. Although we are not aware of any historical or anticipated product liability claims against us, if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to cease clinical trials of our drug candidates or limit commercialization of any approved products. We believe that we have obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials and the sale of Accumin prior to its discontinuation. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the commercial sale of any approved products if marketing approval is obtained; however, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost. We also may not be able to obtain additional insurance coverage that will be adequate to cover product liability risks that may arise. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: ● decreased demand for a product; ● injury to our reputation; ● our inability to continue to develop a drug candidate; ● withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers; and ● loss of revenues. Consequently, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. In connection with providing our clinical trial management and site recruitment services, we may be exposed to liability that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Online Collaborative Oncology Group, Inc., or OCOG, a subsidiary we acquired through our acquisition of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. in 2004, provides clinical trial management and site recruitment services to us as well as other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. OCOG has not entered into a new third-party service contracts since 2005 and does not plan to enter into any further service contracts. In conducting the activities of OCOG, any failure on our part to comply with applicable governmental regulations or contractual obligations could expose us to liability to our clients and could have a material adverse effect on us. We also could be held liable for errors or omissions in connection with the services we perform. In addition, the wrongful or erroneous delivery of health care information or services may expose us to liability. If we were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any such claims, the losses could be material. Our corporate compliance efforts cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. The development, manufacturing, pricing, sales, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and other authorities within the U.S. and numerous entities outside of the U.S. We are a relatively small company with 25 full and part-time employees as of February 15, 2011. We also have significantly fewer employees than many other companies that have a product candidate in clinical development, and we rely heavily on third parties to conduct many important functions. While we believe that our corporate compliance program is sufficient to ensure compliance with applicable regulations, we cannot assure you that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, including suspension or termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. 28 Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our current cash, cash equivalents and investment securities may not be adequate to finance our operating cash requirements for the length of time that we have estimated. We currently anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2010, exclusive of our anticipated milestone payments to be received and expected exercises of expiring options, are sufficient to fund our anticipated operating cash requirements for approximately 15 months from December 31, 2010. Including anticipated milestone payments to be received and the estimated proceeds from the exercise of expiring options, we currently anticipate that our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities as of December 31, 2010 are sufficient to fund our anticipated operating cash requirements for approximately 18 to 20 months from December 31, 2010. Our forecast of the period of time through which our cash, cash equivalents and investment securities will be adequate to support our current operations is a forward-looking statement that involves risks and uncertainties. The actual amount of funds we will need to operate is subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: ● the timing, design and conduct of, and results from, clinical trials for our drug candidates; ● the timing of expenses associated with manufacturing and product development of the proprietary drug candidates within our portfolio and those that may be in-licensed, partnered or acquired; ● the timing of the in-licensing, partnering and acquisition of new product opportunities; ● the progress of the development efforts of parties with whom we have entered, or may enter, into research and development agreements; ● our ability to achieve our milestones under our licensing arrangements; and ● the costs involved in prosecuting and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights. If our cash is insufficient to meet future operating requirements, we will have to raise additional funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on terms favorable to us or at all, we may be required to cease or reduce our operating activities or sell or license to third parties some or all of our intellectual property. If we raise additional funds by selling additional shares of our capital stock, the ownership interests of our stockholders will be diluted. If we need to raise additional funds through the sale or license of our intellectual property, we may be unable to do so on terms favorable to us, if at all. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Third-Party Contracts If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, third parties may be able to use our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection on our drug products and technologies and successfully defend these patents against third-party challenges. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in biotechnology patents has emerged to date. Accordingly, the patents we use may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative drug products or technologies or design around our patented drug products and technologies. The patents we use may be challenged or invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantage. We rely on trade secrets to protect our intellectual property where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. Trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require our employees, collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, this may not be sufficient to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. In addition, we share ownership and publication rights to data relating to some of our drug products and technologies with our research collaborators and scientific advisors. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of this information, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information will be at risk. The intellectual property that we own or have licensed relating to our product candidates is limited, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market and adversely affect the value of our product candidates. The patent rights that we own or have licensed relating to our product candidates are limited in ways that may affect our ability to exclude third parties from competing against us if we obtain regulatory approval to market these product candidates. In particular: ● Our composition of matter patent covering KRX-0401 (perifosine) expires in the second half of 2013 and we cannot assure you that we can obtain an extension to the second half of 2018 (the maximum term of extension under the patent term restoration program). Our composition of matter patent covering Zerenex expires in the second half of 2017 and we cannot assure you that we can obtain an extension to 2022 (the maximum term of extension under the patent term restoration program). Composition of matter patents can provide protection for pharmaceutical products to the extent that the specifically covered compositions are important. Upon expiration of our composition of matter patents for KRX-0401 and Zerenex, competitors who obtain the requisite regulatory approval can offer products with the same composition as our products so long as the competitors do not infringe any other patents that we may hold, such as method of use patents. 29 ● Our method of use patents only protect the products when used or sold for the specified method. However, this type of patent does not limit a competitor from making and marketing a product that is identical to our product that is labeled for an indication that is outside of our patented method, or for which there is a substantial use in commerce outside our patented method. ● Our pending patent applications may not issue as patents and may not issue in all countries in which we develop, manufacture or potentially sell our products or in countries where others develop, manufacture and potentially sell products using our technologies. Moreover, our pending patent applications, if issued as patents, may not provide additional protection for our products. Proof of direct infringement by a competitor for method of use patents can prove difficult because the competitors making and marketing a product typically do not engage in the patented use. Additionally, proof that a competitor contributes to or induces infringement of a patented method of use by another can also prove difficult because an off-label use of a product could prohibit a finding of contributory infringement and inducement of infringement requires proof of intent by the competitor. Moreover, physicians may prescribe such a competitive identical product for indications other than the one for which the product has been approved, or off-label indications, that are covered by the applicable patents. Although such off-label prescriptions may directly infringe or contribute to or induce infringement of method of use patents, such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. In addition, the limited patent protection described above may adversely affect the value of our product candidates and may inhibit our ability to obtain a corporate partner at terms acceptable to us, if at all. In addition to patent protection, we may utilize orphan drug regulations or other provisions of the FDCA to provide market exclusivity for certain of our drug candidates. Orphan drug regulations provide incentives to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to develop and manufacture drugs for the treatment of rare diseases, currently defined as diseases that exist in fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S., or, diseases that affect more than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. but that the sponsor does not realistically anticipate will generate a net profit. Under these provisions, a manufacturer of a designated orphan drug can seek tax benefits, and the holder of the first FDA approval of a designated orphan product will be granted a seven-year period of marketing exclusivity for such FDA-approved orphan product. In September 2009, we announced that KRX-0401 (perifosine) has received Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma, and in July 2010, we announced that KRX-0401 has received Orphan-Drug designation from the FDA for the treatment of neuroblastoma. We believe that KRX-0401 may be eligible for additional orphan-drug designations; however, we cannot assure that KRX-0401, or any other drug candidates we may acquire or in-license, will obtain such orphan-drug designations. Additionally, upon FDA approval, we believe that perifosine would qualify as a New Chemical Entity, which provides for five years of exclusivity following approval. Litigation or third-party claims could require us to spend substantial time and money defending such claims and adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our products. We may be forced to initiate litigation to enforce our contractual and intellectual property rights, or we may be sued by third parties asserting claims based on contract, tort or intellectual property infringement. In addition, third parties may have or may obtain patents in the future and claim that our drug products or technologies infringe their patents. If we are required to defend against suits brought by third parties, or if we sue third parties to protect our rights, we may be required to pay substantial litigation costs, and our management's attention may be diverted from operating our business. In addition, any legal action against our licensors or us that seeks damages or an injunction of our commercial activities relating to our drug products or technologies could subject us to monetary liability and require our licensors or us to obtain a license to continue to use our drug products or technologies. We cannot predict whether our licensors or we would prevail in any of these types of actions or that any required license would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. 30 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales or other issuances of our common stock could depress the market for our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the sale of equity in the future. On August 28, 2009, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-161607), that was declared effective by the SEC on September 23, 2009, providing for the offering of up to $40 million of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. Subsequent to the registered direct offering that was completed on September 30, 2009, there remains approximately $12.2 million of our common stock and warrants available for sale on this shelf registration statement. On January 3, 2011, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-171517), that was declared effective by the SEC on January 28, 2011, providing for the offering of up to $100 million of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. Future sales pursuant to these registration statements could depress the market for our common stock. If we make one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration includes stock or other securities, our stockholders’ holdings may be significantly diluted. In addition, stockholders’ holdings may also be diluted if we enter into arrangements with third parties permitting us to issue shares of common stock in lieu of certain cash payments upon the achievement of milestones. In addition, we may be required to issue up to 2,872,422 shares of our common stock to former stockholders of ACCESS Oncology, Inc. upon the achievement of certain development and sales milestones. Our stock price can be volatile, which increases the risk of litigation, and may result in a significant decline in the value of your investment. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: ● developments concerning our drug candidates; ● announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; ● introductions or announcements of new products by us or our competitors; ● announcements by us of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and liquidity; ● expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; ● conditions or trends in the regulatory climate and the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries; ● changes in the market valuations of similar companies; and ● additions or departures of key personnel. In addition, equity markets in general, and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies traded in those markets. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs to defend such claims and divert management's attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business. 31 Certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. This could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, or control us. These factors could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue preferred stock with the approval of our stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of our common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of such holders. In certain circumstances, such issuance could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated bylaws eliminate the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Any of these provisions could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 