Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in connection with any evaluation of our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and an investment in our common stock. Additionally, the following risk factors could cause our actual results to materially differ from those reflected in any forward-looking statements. Our revenues and operating results may be negatively affected and we may not achieve future growth projections if we fail to compete successfully against our competitors, fail to develop our presence in new markets, or fail to develop new products or technologies. Our competitors include several large medical device manufacturers that may have greater resources, more widely accepted products, better distribution channels, less invasive therapies, greater technical capabilities and stronger name recognition than we do. This is particularly the case when we enter new markets or develop technologies for new therapies. We expect our competitors will continue to improve their products and develop new competing products, including less invasive or non-invasive products, pharmaceuticals and cell or gene therapies. These new technologies and products may beat our products to the market, be more effective than our products, render our products obsolete by substantially reducing the prevalence of the conditions our products and therapies treat, or provide the same benefits as our existing products at the same or lower price. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to introduce a number of new products and product improvements. Product introductions depend upon a variety of factors, including timely receipt of appropriate regulatory approvals. We may be unable to compete effectively with our competitors, or achieve our internally established growth targets, if we cannot maintain our market share and introduce new alternative products, techniques, therapies and technologies, along with obtaining timely approval from applicable regulatory authorities, in the markets we serve. Our sales may be adversely affected if physicians do not recommend, endorse or accept our products. We rely upon physicians to recommend, endorse and accept our products. Many of the products we acquired or are developing are based on new treatment methods. Acceptance of our products is dependent on educating the medical community as to the distinctive characteristics, perceived benefits, clinical efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of our products compared to competitive products, and on training physicians in the proper application of our products. We believe our products address major market opportunities, but if we are unsuccessful in educating physicians about the benefits of our products, or our products are identified in regulatory agency public health communications, our sales and earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, most of our products are used by physicians who are required to maintain certain levels of medical malpractice insurance to maintain their hospital privileges. As the cost of this insurance increases, certain physicians who have used our products to treat their patients may stop performing surgeries or providing therapies. Unless the patients who would have been treated by these physicians are referred to other physicians who would use our products, sales of our products could decline. We are subject to many laws and regulations and any adverse regulatory action may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA and foreign agencies. Each of these agencies monitors and enforces our compliance with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of our medical devices. The FDA has recently increased its scrutiny of the medical device industry and is expected to continue to scrutinize the industry closely with inspections and enforcement actions. Foreign governmental regulations have also become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may 10 Table of Contents become subject to even more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. If we fail to receive regulatory approval for future products, or for modifications to the design, labeling or indications for use of existing products, we will be unable to market and sell these products. The process of obtaining approval from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products, or for enhancements or modifications to existing products, could: • take a significant amount of time, • require the expenditure of substantial resources, • involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, • involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and • result in limitations on the indicated uses of our products. Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations. For example, we are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR), which mandates that manufacturers of medical devices adhere to certain quality assurance requirements pertaining to, among other things, design controls, quality systems, labeling requirements and documentation practices. The FDA and foreign authorities periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with these requirements. In addition, we are required to comply with medical device reporting regulations, which require us to report to FDA or similar foreign regulatory agency in other countries when our products cause or contribute to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. A regulatory authority’s disagreement with the approach taken to comply with regulatory requirements or our failure to obtain the necessary product approvals could result in the authority: • imposing fines and penalties on us; • preventing us from manufacturing or distributing our products; • bringing civil or criminal charges against us; • delaying the introduction or denying marketing approval of our new products; • recalling, withdrawing, or seizing our products; and • requiring additional regulatory filings and/or approvals. Any adverse regulatory action or domestic or foreign governmental medical device law or regulation imposed in the future, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products. In addition, negative publicity and product liability claims resulting from any adverse regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could incur significant costs or other negative impacts if significant product liability claims are made against us. The manufacture and sale of medical devices exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. In the past, and at present, we have a number of product liability claims relating to our products. In the future, we may be subject to additional product liability claims, some of which may damage our reputation, divert the time, attention and resources of our management, require us to pay substantial damage awards as a result of any successful claim, or otherwise have a negative impact on our business. As our product and therapy portfolio broadens into the treatment of additional medical indications, our historical product liability experience may not be a reflection of our longer term future exposure. As a result of our exposure to product liability claims, we currently carry product liability insurance with policy limits per occurrence and in the aggregate that we believe to be adequate. We cannot provide assurance, however, whether this insurance is sufficient, or if not, whether we will be able to obtain sufficient insurance to cover the risks associated with our business or whether such insurance will be available at premiums that are commercially reasonable. If a product liability claim or series of claims is brought against us for uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of our insurance coverage, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. 11 Table of Contents We may experience an interruption in sales of a product and incur significant costs and negative publicity if that product is recalled or withdrawn. In the event that any of our products present a health hazard to the patient or physician, fail to meet product performance criteria or specifications, including labeling, or fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations including those administered by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, we could voluntarily recall or withdraw the products. The FDA and similar international regulatory bodies have the authority to require us to recall or withdraw our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacturing. A voluntary or government mandated recall or withdrawal could occur as a result of unanticipated safety risks, manufacturing errors or design defects, including defects in labeling. In addition, significant negative publicity could result in an increased number of product liability claims, whether or not these claims are supported by applicable law. We have initiated product recalls in the past and there is a possibility that we may recall or withdraw products in the future and that future recalls or withdrawals could result in significant costs to us, in significant negative publicity and product liability claims that could harm our ability to market our products in the future. Changes in third-party reimbursement for our products and therapies may influence our customers’ purchasing activity. Our physician and hospital customers depend on third-party government and non-governmental entities around the world to reimburse them for services provided to patients. The level of such third-party reimbursement has fluctuated from time to time in the past, may fluctuate in the future, and is subject to review or withdrawal at any time. The level of reimbursement may influence whether customers purchase our products. Reimbursement rates vary depending on whether the procedure is performed in a hospital, ambulatory surgery center or physician office. Furthermore, health care regulations and reimbursement for medical devices vary significantly from country to country, particularly in Europe. This changing environment could adversely affect our ability to sell our products in some European countries. Additionally, as we continue to expand into new global markets, we face the potential for lengthy reimbursement approval timeframes, process delays or a lack of transparency in certain reimbursement approval requirements. In summary, any unfavorable change in reimbursement could have a negative impact on our business. Health care policy changes, including recent legislation in the U.S. that imposes additional taxes on us, may have a material adverse effect on our business. In response to perceived increases in health care costs in recent years, the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers continue to propose legislative changes to control these costs and, more generally, to reform the U.S. healthcare system. We cannot predict the effect newly enacted laws or future legislation or regulations will have on reimbursement rates, demand for our products or other aspects of our business from health care legislation that could be enacted at either the federal or state level. On March 30, 2010, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the Reconciliation Bill) was signed into law by President Obama. The Reconciliation Bill amended the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), which was signed into law on March 23, 2010. The PPACA, as amended, includes funding provisions to raise nearly $400 billion over 10 years through tax increases, including an excise tax on manufacturers of certain medical devices equal to 2.3 percent of the sale price of specified medical devices sold by the manufacturer. The excise tax applies to sales of certain products in our U.S. market after December 31, 2012. The excise tax will result in an increase in our tax burden, which will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows beginning after December 31, 2012. Our sales could decline if our procedures are not accepted by patients. We predominantly sell implants and therapies for surgical procedures or treatments. If patients do not accept our products and therapies, our sales may decline. Patient acceptance of our products and therapies depends on a number of factors, including the failure of non-invasive therapies, the degree of invasiveness involved in the procedures using our products, the rate and severity of complications, and other adverse side effects from the procedures using our products. Patients are more likely to first consider non-invasive alternatives to treat their urological and related disorders. Broader patient acceptance of alternative therapies or the introduction of new oral medications or other less-invasive therapies could adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents Our products face the risk of technological obsolescence, which, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The medical device industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological change. We depend on our medical device technology and products to generate revenue. Therefore, we face the risk that third parties will succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than ours or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, new, less invasive procedures and medications could be developed that replace or reduce the importance of current procedures that use our products or may cause our customers to delay or defer purchasing our products. Accordingly, our success depends in part upon our ability to respond quickly to medical and technological changes through the development and introduction of new products. The relative speed with which we can develop products, complete clinical testing and regulatory clearance or approval processes, train physicians in the use of our products, gain reimbursement acceptance, and supply commercial quantities of the products to the market are expected to be important competitive factors. Any delays could result in a loss of market acceptance and market share. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and we cannot provide assurance that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. Worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We believe the worldwide economic conditions have resulted and may continue to result in reduction in the procedures using our products. Although a majority of our products are subject to reimbursement from third-party government and non-governmental entities, some procedures that use our products can be deferred by patients. In current economic conditions, patients may not have employer-provided healthcare, be as willing to take time off from work or spend their money on deductibles and co-payments often required in connection with the procedures that use our products. Beyond patient demand, hospitals and clinics may be less likely to purchase capital equipment in the current economic conditions and credit environment. Economic conditions could also affect the financial strength of our vendors and their ability to fulfill their commitments to us, and the financial strength of our customers and our ability to collect accounts receivable. While we believe worldwide economic conditions may have contributed to a softening in our recent revenue growth rates, the specific impact is difficult to measure. We cannot predict how these economic conditions will impact our future sales, cost of goods sold, or bad debt expense. We may not be able to supply products that incorporate materials or components which are single or sole-sourced. Some of our products utilize raw materials or components that are either single- or sole-sourced. These sources of supply could encounter manufacturing difficulties or may unilaterally decide to stop supplying us because of product liability concerns or other factors. We currently rely on single- or sole-source suppliers for certain components used in our male prostheses, many of our female products, our GreenLight™ laser systems, and for the TherMatrx® disposables. We cannot be certain that we would be able to timely or cost-effectively replace any of these sources upon any disruption. The loss of any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our financial results in the near term, as we would be required to qualify alternate designs or sources. The start-up, transfer, termination or interruption of any of these relationships or products, or the failure of our suppliers to supply product to us on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities, would likely cause us to be unable to meet customer orders for our products and harm our reputation with customers and our business. If we obtain a new supplier for a component, we may need to obtain FDA approval of a PMA supplement to reflect changes in product manufacturing. Further, if FDA approval of a PMA supplement is required, any delays in delivery of our product to customers could be extended due to FDA review time and our costs associated with the change in product manufacturing may increase. Loss of our principal manufacturing and distribution facilities would adversely affect our financial position. Manufacturing of our products takes place in our Minnesota and California facilities. Although we believe we have adequate physical capacity to serve our business operations for the foreseeable future, and we carry property insurance on our facilities, we do not have a back up manufacturing facility, and the loss or impairment of either of our Minnesota or California facilities would have a material adverse effect on our sales, earnings, and financial condition. In February 2011, we started to use a third-party warehouse and distribution center for certain finished goods in the U.S., which we anticipate will result in improved efficiencies, long-term cost savings, and also provide 13 Table of Contents risk mitigation for our overall operations because our Minnesota location now serves as our back-up warehouse and distribution center for certain products. We also use a third-party warehouse and distribution center in Europe for certain finished goods. If our third-party warehouse and distribution partners suffer an interruption in business, or experience delays, disruptions, quality control, or regulatory problems in their operations, or refuse or are unable to provide services of acceptable quality, our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed or the products that are shipped may not meet our customer’s expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Conversion of our 2036 Notes and 2041 Notes into common stock could result in dilution to our shareholders. As of January 1, 2011, we have $62.0 million in principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2036 (2036 Notes) and 250.0 million in principal amount of convertible senior subordinated notes due 2041 (2041 Notes). Our 2036 Notes and 2041 Notes (Convertible Notes) are convertible, at the option of the holder, into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion price of $19.406 per share, subject to adjustment. Upon conversion, in lieu of shares of our common stock, for each $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes a holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) $1,000 or (ii) the conversion value (determined in the manner set forth in the indenture under which the Convertible Notes were issued) of the number of shares of our common stock as determined based on the conversion rate. If the conversion value exceeds $1,000, we will also deliver, in addition to cash, a number of shares of our common stock to satisfy the value that exceeds $1,000 in the manner set forth in the indenture. The number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes increases as the market price of our common stock increases, as described in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. All of the above conversion rights are subject to certain limitations imposed by our senior secured credit facility agreement. Failure to satisfy the obligations related to our Convertible Notes and maintain compliance with our senior secured credit facility agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Convertible Notes require timely interest payments and compliance with various requirements to avoid an event of default as described fully in the indenture under which the Convertible Notes were issued. The senior secured credit facility contains various restrictive covenants where compliance is essential for credit availability as the senior secured credit facility has a revolving line of credit that could serve as an additional source of liquidity if needed. Failure to comply with any payment or compliance requirements of our debt would entitle the lenders to, among other things, accelerate the maturity or terminate the availability of credit commitments. Should financial results severely decline, we might have to record a significant goodwill impairment charge. We are required to evaluate goodwill each year for impairment. If we determine the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss will be recorded in our statement of operations. The determination of fair value is a highly subjective exercise and can produce significantly different results based on the assumptions used and methodologies employed. It is likely that if our financial results were to decline substantially and if macroeconomic conditions eroded substantially, we would have to record a non-cash goodwill impairment loss in our statement of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or obtain necessary intellectual property rights from third parties which could adversely affect our business, including losing market share to our competitors and the inability to operate our business profitably. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and therapies. We rely on patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish our intellectual property rights and protect our products. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights. In addition, we cannot be assured that pending patent applications will be issued. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, may deny or significantly narrow claims made under patent applications and the issued patents, if any, may not provide us with sufficient commercial protection. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions as to the priority of our inventions. We cannot be sure that patents we hold or may hold in the future will not be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. Others, including our competitors, may independently develop similar or competing 14 Table of Contents technology or design around any of our patents and may have or may in the future seek to apply for and obtain patents that may prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, issue, use and sell our products and product candidates. We have not secured patent protection in certain foreign countries in which our products are sold. The laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, or at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. We seek to protect our trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. We cannot ensure, however, that: • these agreements will not be breached; • we will have adequate remedies for any breach; or • our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. Any disclosure of confidential information to third parties or into the public domain could allow our competitors to use such information in competition against us. In addition, we may be subject to damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. We could incur significant costs and/or be required to stop the sale of the related product as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. Our success and competitive position depends in part on our ability to effectively prosecute claims against others that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights and to defend against such claims made against us. The medical device industry is highly litigious with respect to patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the medical device industry have used intellectual property litigation to seek to gain a competitive advantage. In the future, we may become a party to lawsuits involving patents or other intellectual property. A legal proceeding, regardless of the outcome, would draw upon our financial resources and divert the time and efforts of our management. If we lose one of these proceedings, a court, or a similar foreign governing body, could require us to pay significant damages to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties and pay ongoing royalties, or require us to redesign our products. If we were unable to develop alternative technologies or acquire a license upon reasonable terms we may be prevented from manufacturing, using or selling our products. In addition to being costly, protracted litigation to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of the affected products until the litigation is resolved. We are required to comply with broad, pervasive and continually changing federal and state “fraud and abuse” laws, and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, we could face substantial penalties and our products could be excluded from government healthcare programs. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. These laws, which directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate our business, include, but are not limited to, the following: • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, lease or order (or the arranging for or recommending of the purchase, lease or order) of a good or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and corresponding state laws; • the federal False Claims Act, which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals and entities who submit, or cause to be submitted, false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government; and • the federal False Statements Statute, which prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. In the recent past, federal and state enforcement authorities, as well as private “whistleblowers” operating under the “qui tam” provisions of the federal False Claims Act, have sought to enforce these laws against manufacturers of medical devices, alleging, among other things, that certain financial relationships with physicians are not bona fide 15 Table of Contents consulting or other legitimate agreements, but are instead intended to induce those physicians to use and recommend company products. In some instances, these actions have resulted in substantial fines, penalties, and governmental supervision of those companies’ operations. Because our business necessitates frequent contact with physicians and other healthcare professionals, including financial relationships such as consulting agreements, training programs, and cooperative marketing arrangements, we have implemented a broad-based corporate compliance program, and voluntarily follow the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, in order to maintain compliance and inform our employees regarding the foregoing laws and regulations. However, if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations to which we or our customers are subject, we or our officers may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with which we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could also have a negative impact on us. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation especially when considering the high public scrutiny in this area. If enforcement action were to occur, our reputation and our business and financial condition may be harmed, even if we were to prevail or settle the action. Our international operations expose us to various risks, including risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We derive a significant portion of our net sales from operations in international markets. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, 27.2 percent, 28.0 percent and 29.1 percent, respectively, of our sales were to customers outside the United States. Some of these sales were to governmental entities and other organizations with extended payment terms. A number of factors, including differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political or economic instability in the countries where we do business, could affect payment terms and our ability to collect foreign receivables. We have little influence over these factors and changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, foreign sales are influenced by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the Euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, and Great Britain pound. Increases in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would positively impact our earnings and decreases in the value of the foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar would negatively impact our earnings. We use derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to hedge a portion of estimated currency exposures. The use of derivatives offsets the portion hedged for adverse effects of an unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates and also offsets a portion of favorable movements in rates. The risks of selling and shipping our products and of purchasing components and products internationally may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The sale and shipping of our products and services across international borders subject us to extensive U.S. and foreign governmental trade regulations, such as various anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export control laws, customs and import laws, and anti-boycott laws. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in significant criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including, but not limited to, imprisonment of individuals, fines, denial of export privileges, seizure of shipments, restrictions on certain business activities, and exclusion or debarment from government contracting. Also, the failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory obligations could result in the disruption of our shipping and sales activities. In addition, some countries in which we sell our products are, to some degree, subject to political, economic and/or social instability. Our international sales operations expose us and our representatives, agents and distributors to risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions. These risks include: • the imposition of additional U.S. and foreign governmental controls or regulations; • the imposition of costly and lengthy new export licensing requirements; 16 Table of Contents • the imposition of U.S. and/or international sanctions against a country, company, person or entity with whom the company does business that would restrict or prohibit continued business with the sanctioned country, company, person or entity; • economic instability; • changes in duties and tariffs, license obligations and other non-tariff barriers to trade; • the imposition of new trade restrictions; • the imposition of restrictions on the activities of foreign agents, representatives and distributors; • scrutiny of foreign tax authorities which could result in significant fines, penalties and additional taxes being imposed on us; • pricing pressure that we may experience internationally; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • difficulties in enforcing or defending intellectual property rights; and • exposure to different legal and political standards due to our conducting business in several foreign countries. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of these factors will not harm our business. Any material decrease in our international sales would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 