ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company We have not generated any product revenue to date, have a history of operating losses and our capital resources are limited. We are focused on product development and we have not generated any revenue from commercial sales of our products to date. We have incurred losses each year of our operations. In 2005, we had a net loss available to holders of common stock of $47.0 million At December 31, 2005 we had an accumulated deficit of $220.1 million. We expect our research and development, general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses will increase over the next several years. We expect to continue to incur losses and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. We also anticipate cash out flow from debt repayment and payment of other obligations. We believe, based on our operating plans, that our existing resources, including scheduled proceeds from Nycomed, are adequate to fund our planned operations through 2006, or beyond twelve months if we elect to reduce our rate of spending. Unless we reduce our current rate of spending, we will require significant additional funds to fund our operations, including to develop products, conduct clinical trials, achieve regulatory approvals, qualify commercial manufacturing space and, subject to regulatory approval, commercially launch AI-700, our other product candidates under development and future product candidates. We may raise this additional capital through public or private sales of equity, or from borrowings, or from strategic partners. As a result of our limited capital resources, we may elect to delay the funding of certain development activities, including the filing of our NDA for AI-700, which would result in a delay in the commercialization of AI-700. Any such delay in the filing of an NDA or commercialization of AI-700 26 would have a material adverse impact on our business and would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. To address our capital needs, we may elect to raise funds through public or private sales of equity or from borrowings or from strategic partners. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business; and strategic partnerships, if available, may result in royalties or other terms which reduce our economic potential from products under development. In addition, third parties may attempt to acquire us at valuations our board of directors or stockholders may not find attractive. If our capital resources are not sufficient to fund our planned operations for a twelve month period at the time the audit for our 2006 financial results is complete, our auditor may require a going concern qualification in its audit report be included in our audit report on Form 10-K. Any such qualification would have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital and would have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We need to allocate significant amounts of our available capital resources to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and equipment lease obligations, our patent transfer agreement with Schering Aktiengesellschaft and as dividends on our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock, which in turn could reduce our financial flexibility and ability to fund other activities. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $21.3 million in aggregate principal indebtedness outstanding related to capital lease obligations, notes payable and other long-term obligations. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding 740,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock, which shares accrue cumulative cash dividends at the annual rate of $3.25 per share, payable quarterly on the first day of March, June, September, and December. These payments will: · reduce the availability of our capital to fund our clinical trials for AI-700, the build-out and qualification of our commercial manufacturing space in Tewksbury, Massachusetts and for working capital and other general corporate purposes and may require us, in order to meet these obligations, to delay or reduce expenditures or forego business opportunities; and · potentially impair our ability to obtain additional financing, including intended future borrowings against our equipment financing line with Oxford Finance Corporation. To address our capital needs, we may elect to raise funds through public or private sales of equity or from borrowings or from strategic partners. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate as a business; and strategic partnerships, if available, may result in royalties or other terms which reduce our economic potential from products under development. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates under development, in particular our lead product candidate AI-700, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We must receive regulatory approval of each of our product candidates before we can commercialize or sell that product candidate. The pre-clinical laboratory testing, formulation development, manufacturing and clinical trials of any product candidates we develop independently or in collaboration with third parties, as well as the distribution and marketing of these product candidates, are regulated by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. The development and regulatory approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, is uncertain and subject to delays, and will thus delay our receipt of revenues, if any, from any of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that our clinical trials will demonstrate the safety and efficacy of any of our product candidates or will result in marketable products. No product can receive FDA approval unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical 27 and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early stage development. In our Phase 3 clinical trials for AI-700, we are seeking to demonstrate non-inferiority compared to nuclear stress tests. The clinical effectiveness of nuclear stress tests may have improved since the time of our Phase 2 clinical trials. We therefore cannot assure you that the results from our Phase 2 clinical trials for AI-700 will be predictive of results obtained in our Phase 3 clinical trials. Many of the patients in our AI-700 clinical trials have coronary heart disease. As part of our AI-700 clinical trials, patients will be exposed to potential safety risks associated with a stress test, including risks associated with a pharmacological stressor, and AI-700. Given the nature of the AI-700 clinical trials, including administering AI-700 in Phase 3 to larger numbers of at-risk patients and new clinical sites and administering AI-700 to patients with coexisting disease, adverse events are expected to be encountered during the clinical trials. Adverse events are also likely to be encountered in clinical trials for our other products, which clinical trials also include at-risk patients. When significant adverse events are detected and these events are attributable to our products, such events could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. Further, data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. We cannot assure you that our Phase 3 plan for AI-700 will successfully address the requirements of the FDA or that the results of the Phase 3 program will establish the safety and efficacy of AI-700 sufficiently for us to obtain regulatory approval. We may also encounter delays, resulting from the need to enroll more patients than we currently estimate for in our clinical trials. This may occur due to a variety of factors including our inability to enroll sufficient proportion of patients with and without disease that is consistent with our estimated clinical trial enrollment, based on a higher than expected number of patients enrolled in the trials who are unevaluable because their nuclear stress or angiography studies are not compliant with trial protocol or based on a change in the sample size required by regulatory authorities to meet desired study endpoints. We may also encounter delays or rejections based on our inability to enroll enough patients to complete our clinical trials. We may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies or personnel during the period in which we develop a drug or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular compound. In 2004, changes went into effect in the regulation of clinical trials in Europe and are currently being implemented by the individual member states of the European Union. Our continuing efforts to comply with these changes could lead to delays or rejections of our clinical trials. We also may encounter delays in the event we are unable to produce clinical trial material in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality to meet the schedule for our planned clinical trials. In addition, we rely on a number of third parties, such as clinical research organizations, to help support the clinical trials by performing independent clinical monitoring, data acquisition and data evaluations. Any failure on the part of these third parties could delay the regulatory approval process. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or any delay or setback in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could: · adversely affect our ability to market any drugs we develop independently or with collaborative partners; · impose additional costs and diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; or · adversely affect our ability to generate royalties. In particular, failure to obtain approval or substantial delays in obtaining approval for our lead product candidate, AI-700, would delay our receipt of product revenues and would have a material adverse affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price would also be materially adversely affected. 28 We cannot be certain that we will obtain any regulatory approvals in other countries and the failure to obtain these approvals would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we and our current, and potential future, collaborative partners must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval detailed above. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. In addition, many countries outside the United States require a separate review process prior to marketing to determine whether their national health insurance scheme will pay for newly approved products, as well as the price which may be charged for a product. We may need to enroll more patients in our AI-700 Phase 3 clinical trials, and any such additional enrollment would require additional expenditures, which may be material, and would likely result in a delay of our submitting an NDA with the FDA for AI-700. We are intentionally blinded to efficacy data from our ongoing Phase 3 pivotal trials. Estimating the number of patients we need to enroll in our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials in order to achieve statistical significance in these trials is difficult. We estimate the number of patients we need to enroll in our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials based on a variety of factors, including our understanding and analysis of previous trial data for AI-700, our ongoing discussions with the FDA and our own knowledge and past experience in these and similar matters. However, these estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that our estimates will prove to be correct. For example, in April 2005, based in part on feedback from the FDA, we revised the statistical analysis plan from which we base our patient enrollment estimates. This revision had the effect of increasing the number of patients we estimate to be needed to complete the Phase 3 clinical trials to approximately 700 patients. Continued discussions with the FDA could lead to other changes, including changes relating to our statistical analysis plans. How, when or if the matters being discussed are resolved may affect whether AI-700 is approved for the indication that we are seeking, the timing of such approval or whether AI-700 is approved at all. These discussions could also lead to delays in the timing of the unblinding of the data from our Phase 3 clinical trials and therefore, the public announcement of results from those trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including the size and disease prevalence of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, and the eligibility criteria for the study and the freedom to operate with respect to intellectual property. Any such delays, or the need to enroll more patients, will likely result in increased costs, which may be material and would likely have a harmful effect on our financial position and results of operations. The market price of our common stock may also be materially adversely affected in response to any such delays. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete planned clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals or commercialize our product candidates. We will require substantial future capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development, clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our product candidates to market and to establish commercial manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the progress of pre-clinical development and laboratory testing and clinical trials; · the timing of construction and size to which we expand our manufacturing capabilities; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; 29 · the number of product candidates we pursue; · the costs involved in filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing or defending patent claims; and · the establishment of selected strategic alliances and activities required for product commercialization. We intend to seek additional funding through strategic collaborations and may seek funding through private or public sales of our securities or by licensing all or a portion of our technology. This funding may significantly dilute existing stockholders or may limit our rights to our technology. We cannot assure you that we can obtain additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline, our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations and such debt may have rights senior to the debentures, if issued. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may: · terminate or delay clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates; · delay our establishment of sales, marketing and/or manufacturing capabilities; · curtail significant product development programs that are designed to identify new product candidates; · relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates; and/or · terminate or delay build-out and commissioning of our commercial manufacturing facility. Our products, if approved, may fail to achieve market acceptance. There can be no assurance that any products we successfully develop, if approved for marketing, will achieve market acceptance or generate significant revenues. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures, and hospitals, physicians or patients may conclude that these products are less safe or effective or otherwise less attractive than these existing therapies or procedures. For example, our lead product candidate, AI-700, is a contrast agent for use in ultrasound imaging procedures which will compete with existing nuclear imaging and stress echocardiography. Hospitals, physicians or patients may prefer these existing procedures to AI-700 enhanced ultrasound imaging. If our products do not receive market acceptance for any reason, it would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our competitors may develop new technologies or products that are more effective or less costly, or that seem more cost-effective, than our products. We can give no assurance that hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general will accept and use any products that we may develop. Claims by other parties that we infringe or have misappropriated their proprietary technology may result in liability for damages, royalties, or other payments, or stop our development and commercialization efforts. Competitors and other third parties may initiate patent litigation against us in the United States or in foreign countries based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. Many of our competitors have obtained patents covering products and processes generally related to our products and processes, and they may assert these patents against us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these competitors have not sought or will not seek additional patents that may cover aspects of our technology. As a result, there is a greater likelihood of a patent dispute than would be expected if our competitors were pursuing unrelated technologies. 30 While we conduct patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe patents held by third parties, numerous patent applications are currently pending and may be filed in the future for technologies generally related to our technologies, including many patent applications that remain confidential after filing. Due to these factors and the inherent uncertainty in conducting patent searches, there can be no guarantee that we will not violate third-party patent rights that we have not yet identified. We know of U.S. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to aspects of our product candidates. There may also be patent applications filed by these or other parties in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions that relate to some aspects of our product candidates, which, if issued, could subject us to infringement actions. In particular, we are aware of U.S. and foreign patents owned by third parties, including potential competitors, which arguably cover aspects of our AI-700 contrast agent. We and several of these parties have recently been actively engaged in opposing the grant of European patents with claims that arguably cover aspects of our AI-700 product. Parties may contest patents in Europe prior to contesting the counterpart patents in the United States because of procedural differences between European and U.S. patent laws as well as economic considerations. There is a significant possibility that one or more of these third parties will use litigation to assert their patents in the United States or Europe. The owners or licensees of these and other patents may file one or more infringement actions against us. In addition, a competitor may claim misappropriation of a trade secret by an employee hired from that competitor. Any such infringement or misappropriation action could cause us to incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and could distract our management from our business, even if the allegations of infringement or misappropriation are unwarranted. A need to defend multiple actions or claims could have a disproportionately greater impact. In addition, either in response to or in anticipation of any such infringement or misappropriation claim, we may enter into commercial agreements with the owners or licensees of these rights. The terms of these commercial agreements may include substantial payments, including substantial royalty payments on revenues received by us in connection with the commercialization of our products. We have had discussions which lead us to believe that owners or licensees with these rights are interested in out-licensing certain rights to their patents. There can be no assurance that we will enter into any such agreement or that, if we elect to enter into such agreements that we will be able to do so on terms which are acceptable. Payments under such agreements could increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. Furthermore, a party making this type of claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages, which would increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from making, using, selling, offering for sale or importing our products or prevent our customers from using our products. If a court determined or if we independently concluded that any of our products or manufacturing processes violated third-party proprietary rights, our clinical trials could be delayed and there can be no assurance that we would be able to reengineer the product or processes to avoid those rights, or to obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may develop and market products with similar features that may reduce demand for our products, and we may be prevented from establishing collaborative relationships on favorable terms. The following factors are important to our success: · receiving patent protection for our product candidates; · maintaining our trade secrets; · not infringing on the proprietary rights of others; and · preventing others from infringing our proprietary rights. 31 We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We try to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Because the patent position of pharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, the issuance, scope and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide any protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed. The laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our confidential information or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may become involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect, defend or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties in the United States or in foreign countries. In addition, we have been and continue to be subject to certain opposition proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices challenging the validity of our patents and may become involved in future opposition proceedings. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and can divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such costs increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation and despite protective orders entered by the court, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. This disclosure could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. We have never manufactured any of our product candidates in commercial quantities, and if we fail to develop an effective manufacturing capability for our products, including our lead product candidate AI-700, we may be unable to commercialize these products. We have no experience in manufacturing our products for commercial use and limited experience in designing equipment for the manufacture of our products. We are working to start-up and qualify operations at a commercial manufacturing facility in Tewksbury, Massachusetts and to demonstrate that we can produce AI-700 at a commercial manufacturing scale prior to our filing of a NDA for AI-700 and, subject to required regulatory approvals, we intend to manufacture AI-700 in this facility for commercial 32 use. We can not assure you that we will be able to successfully manufacture our products in sufficient quantities for commercial sale, or obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for such commercial manufacture, at all or in a timely or economical manner. Our intention to manufacture AI-700 or other products exposes us to the following risks, any of which could delay or prevent the approval of our products by the FDA or corresponding state and foreign agencies, or the commercialization of our products, or result in higher costs or inability to meet demand for AI-700 leading to potential revenue loss, and any of which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. · Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance. Accordingly, we might not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet our clinical schedules or to commercialize our products. · Manufacturers are obliged to manufacture in highly controlled environments and to operate in accordance with FDA and international mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. For our clinical trials we have relied on contract manufacturers for such facilities and cGMP compliance. In July 2004, we entered into a lease for a facility in Tewksbury, Massachusetts that we are in the process of converting into a commercial manufacturing facility for AI-700. Creation and qualification of a commercial manufacturing environment requires significant expertise and capital resources, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls and is subject to local and state planning approvals. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in constructing and qualifying new manufacturing facilities and in production, especially in scaling-up initial production. A failure within this new facility to establish and follow cGMPs and to document adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for our NDA filing or commercial production for AI-700 and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products or the ability to continue to manufacture the products. Certain of these delays would further require us to continue to operate this facility and incur related costs. · Manufacture of our product candidates, in preparation for filing a NDA and for commercial production, will each initially require and rely on a single commercial manufacturing site, directly or through a contract manufacturer, without the backup of a second site that is qualified for commercial manufacture of the product. Qualification of another manufacturing site can be expensive and time consuming. Prior to using product from a new manufacturing site, we must demonstrate to the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies that the specifications for the product are consistent with the specifications for the product as it was manufactured at a prior qualified site or we must clinically or otherwise demonstrate that the safety and efficacy of the product produced in the new manufacturing site is consistent with the product as it was manufactured at the prior site. Demonstrating such consistency may be difficult, expensive or time consuming. In addition, before we would be able to produce product for commercial use at a new facility, it will have to undergo a pre-approval inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. Once approved, drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Failure to maintain compliance with cGMP or with safety or environmental regulations could result in penalties, product recalls or restrictions on the use of the manufacturing site. Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Nycomed, we are responsible for the commercial manufacture of AI-700 for marketing and sale by Nycomed in Europe. Failure to manufacture AI-700 in a timely manner or on an economic basis, or in sufficient quantities, could jeopardize our relationship with Nycomed. We do not currently have a European sales force, nor do we have experience with regard to the commercialization, marketing, sale or distribution of pharmaceutical products in Europe, and we rely entirely on Nycomed for this expertise. Any termination of our relationship with 33 Nycomed would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from marketing our products. To date our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for pre-clinical and clinical trials. If any of these product candidates are approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. For AI-700, it is our intention to seek regulatory approval after we have demonstrated that we can manufacture AI-700 at a larger batch scale than is being used for clinical trial materials. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity or manufacture at a larger batch scale, whether on our own or in collaboration with third party manufacturers, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require certain additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply of that product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including controlling the incidence of manufacturing errors and maintaining reliable product packaging for diverse environmental conditions, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. The Company’s commercial manufacturing facility in Tewksbury, Massachusetts is designed to meet the Company’s estimated initial commercial demand for AI-700. The facility is being initially equipped to run one production line. In order to support greater production capacity, this production line is designed to support a larger lyophilizer (pharmaceutical freeze dryer which can be operated under sterile conditions) than has been initially installed in the facility. Space in the facility has been designated for the future addition of a larger lyophilizer. Purchasing, installing and qualifying manufacturing equipment, such as a lyophilizer, typically requires significant lead times and temporary discontinuation of production. Also in the future the Company may need to add additional production lines at the Tewksbury, Massachusetts site or elsewhere to meet potential commercial demand for AI-700. The Company has made no commitment to such additions at this time. The cost of such additions can be significant. There can be no assurance that the Company’s capacity estimates will be achieved. Any such additions would increase our operating spending, increase our capital requirements and reduce our resources available for development activities. We have removed our AI-700 manufacturing equipment from the facilities of our third party contract manufacturer and currently have no facility within which to manufacture AI-700 until the new commercial manufacturing facility is qualified or until other arrangements are made. We have removed our AI-700 manufacturing equipment from the facilities of a third-party contract manufacturer. We believe that we have sufficient inventory of AI-700 clinical trial material to complete our Phase 3 program. However, there can be no assurance that such inventory will prove sufficient or that the inventory will not get damaged or otherwise disqualified. Currently, we have no facility within which to manufacture AI-700 until the new commercial manufacturing facility is qualified or until other arrangements are made. If we lack sufficient inventory of AI-700 clinical trial material to complete our Phase 3 program or are unable to manufacture sufficient inventory on a timely basis, our Phase 3 program could be delayed and would consequently delay our ability to commercialize AI-700. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 34 If third-party manufacturers of our products fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials may be delayed and our costs may rise. We may rely substantially on third-party contract manufacturers to supply, store and distribute our potential products for our clinical trials and other development needs. Our reliance on these third-party manufacturers will expose us to the following risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our products by the FDA, or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or deprive us of additional product candidates, and any of such effects would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. · Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Accordingly, a manufacturer might not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet our clinical schedules. · Contract manufacturers are obliged to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. A failure of these contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical study and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. · For production of clinical trial material for each of our current product candidates we will initially rely on a single manufacturer. Changing these or future manufacturers may be difficult and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers may require re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with FDA-mandated cGMPs. Such re-validation may be costly and time-consuming. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. · Our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to produce, store and distribute our products successfully. Our manufacturing levels, while important to us, can represent relatively small fractions of the overall business of most qualified contract manufacturers. As a result, the contract manufacturers may not provide us with the attention that we need or may be unwilling to adapt to necessary changes in our manufacturing requirements. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Materials necessary to manufacture our products may not be available, which may delay our development and commercialization activities. Only a few facilities manufacture some of the raw materials necessary to manufacture our products. If we need to purchase a raw material that is in limited supply for our clinical trials, or for commercial distribution if we obtain marketing approval of a product candidate, we cannot assure you that one or more suppliers would be able to sell us that raw material at the time we need it and on commercially reasonable terms. If we change suppliers for any of these materials or any of our suppliers experiences a shutdown or disruption in the facilities used to produce these materials, due to technical, regulatory or other problems, it could harm our ability to manufacture our products. Our inability to obtain required raw materials for any reason could substantially impair our development activities or the production, marketing and distribution of our products. 35 We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing our products and no internal capability to do so. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sale of any product, we will face competition with respect to commercial sales, marketing and distribution. These are areas in which we have no experience. To market any of our products directly, we must develop a direct marketing and sales force with technical expertise and supporting distribution capability. Alternatively, we may engage a pharmaceutical or other healthcare company with an existing distribution system and direct sales force to assist us. There can be no assurance that we will successfully establish sales and distribution capabilities either on our own or in collaboration with third parties or gain market acceptance for our products. To the extent we have or will enter co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend on the efforts of third parties and there can be no assurance that our efforts will succeed. If we are unable to retain key personnel and hire additional qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and other personnel, we may not be able to successfully achieve our goals. We depend on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. The loss of these principal members’ services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of these principal members. On February 1, 2006, we entered into executive employment agreements with key members of the management team that provide for compensation and other benefits in the event these persons are terminated other than for cause, including in connection with a “change of control” of Acusphere. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel such as these individuals. We face intense competition for such personnel and consultants. We cannot assure you that we will attract and retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future. Further, we expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as further clinical trials, governmental approvals, commercial manufacturing and marketing, will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect these demands will require an increase in management and scientific personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could materially adversely affect prospects for our success. We will establish collaborative relationships, and those relationships may expose us to a number of risks. We will rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies for our manufacturing, research funding, clinical development and/or sales and marketing performance. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following: · we cannot effectively control whether our corporate partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or product candidates; · disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with collaborators; · disagreements with collaborators could delay or terminate the research and development, regulatory approval or commercialization of product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration; · corporate partners may have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; and 36 · collaborators with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates than they do to product candidates of their own development. In July 2004, we entered into a collaboration, license and supply agreement with Nycomed in which we granted Nycomed rights to develop and market AI-700 in Europe. There can be no assurance that the regulatory goals, sales targets and other objectives of this agreement will be achieved. Failure to achieve these goals, targets and objectives would result in our inability to receive license, milestone, royalty and other payments under this agreement, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations including, under certain conditions, reduction of royalty rates, delays in regulatory approvals and product sales, penalties and termination of the agreement. Under certain provisions of this collaboration agreement, if we fail in any material respect to use all commercially reasonable efforts to carry out referenced obligations under the agreement, we would be obligated to pay Nycomed liquidated damages of up to $12 million. Although we plan to carry out all of these obligations, which we believe are in our control, there can be no assurance that termination of this agreement will not occur or that such termination would not result in us incurring liquidated damages of up to $12 million. Given these risks, our current and future collaborative efforts may not be successful. Failure of these efforts could delay our product development or impair commercialization of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense, and if we fail to compete effectively our financial results will suffer. We engage in a business characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid developments and intense competition. We cannot assure you that our products will compete successfully or that research and development by others will not render our products obsolete or uneconomical. Our failure to compete effectively would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that successful competition will depend, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, timing and scope of regulatory approval and price. Specifically, we expect important factors will include the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical, development and laboratory testing and regulatory approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. We expect competition to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications broaden. In commercializing our initial product candidates and any additional products we develop using our HDDS and PDDS technologies, we will face substantial competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions. · AI-700, our ultrasound contrast agent and lead product candidate, if approved for marketing and sale, will compete with nuclear stress tests, the current standard of care in myocardial perfusion imaging. Nuclear contrast agents that are approved for use in myocardial perfusion imaging include products marketed by GE Healthcare and Bristol-Myers Squibb. In 2004, the cost of a nuclear stress test was approximately $770 per procedure. In addition, GE Healthcare and Bristol-Myers Squibb have developed and are marketing ultrasound contrast agents that have been approved by the FDA for use in Left Ventricular Opacification and Endocardial Border Delineation in patients with suboptimal images, and in the future they may seek to broaden their products to include stress echo and myocardial perfusion assessment. Moreover, we are aware that other companies, such as Bracco, are developing ultrasound contrast agents for wall imaging and for radiology applications, and that Point Biomedical is developing an ultrasound contrast agent specifically for myocardial perfusion imaging. In 2006, Point announced that it had filed a NDA for CardioSphere with the FDA. Finally, some cardiologists may find it satisfactory to use stress echo without contrast for the detection of coronary heart disease. 37 · AI-850, our reformulation of paclitaxel, if approved for marketing and sale, will also face intense competition from companies such as American Pharmaceutical Partners, NeoPharm and Sonus Pharmaceuticals (in partnership with Schering AG), which are applying significant resources and expertise to developing reformulations of paclitaxel for intravenous delivery. American Pharmaceutical Partners has received FDA approval and is selling their product. Other companies, such as Cell Therapeutics, are developing new chemical entities that involve paclitaxel conjugated, or chemically bound, to another chemical. · AI-128, our sustained release formulation of an asthma drug, if approved for marketing and sale, will also face intense competition. Companies such as Alkermes possess technology that may be suitable for sustained release pulmonary drug delivery and may have competitive programs that have not been publicly announced or may decide to begin such programs in the future. In addition, large pharmaceutical companies that market FDA-approved asthma drugs may be developing sustained release versions of their asthma drugs that would compete with our product candidates. Relative to us, most of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we will. Furthermore, we believe that some of our competitors have used, and may continue to use, litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Finally, our competitors may use different technologies or approaches to the development of products similar to the products we are seeking to develop. We expect to develop international operations that will expose us to additional business risks. We expect, whether directly or through collaborative relationships, to develop operations outside the United States in order to market and distribute our products. Regardless of the extent to which we seek to develop these operations ourselves or in collaboration with others, we cannot be sure that our international efforts will be successful. Any expansion into international markets will require additional resources and management attention and will subject us to new business risks. These risks could lower the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect any international operations are: · different regulatory requirements for approval of our product candidates; · dependence on local distributors; · longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; · adverse changes in trade and tax regulations; · the absence or significant lack of legal protection for intellectual property rights; · political and economic instability; and · currency risks. Risks Related to Our Industry Even if we obtain marketing approval, our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. As to products for which marketing approval is obtained, the manufacturer of the product and the manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the 38 FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing requirements or adoption of new requirements or policies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like our product candidates, and our commercial success will depend in part on these third-party payors agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our products. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our proposed products to market, we cannot assure you that third-party payors, in the United States, Europe and other markets that we may pursue, will consider our products cost-effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use or agree to the proposed price. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, effective or cost-effective than these existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payors may not approve our products for reimbursement. If third-party payors do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, these payors’ reimbursement policies may adversely affect the ability of us and our potential collaborators to sell our products on a profitable basis. Moreover, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after the FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our proposed products for marketing. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual harm caused by our products or product candidates. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others. This risk exists in clinical trials as well as in commercial distribution. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in general have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. We may incur significant liability if product 39 liability or malpractice lawsuits against us are successful. Furthermore, product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, or adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete. Pharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change. We expect that pharmaceutical technologies will continue to develop rapidly. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products involve the use of hazardous materials, and as a result we are exposed to potential liability claims and to costs associated with complying with laws regulating hazardous waste. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. We believe that our procedures for handling hazardous materials comply with federal and state regulations. However, there can be no assurance that accidental injury or contamination from these materials will not occur. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. This liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products, and we spent approximately $69,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 to dispose of these hazardous materials and waste products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly. We completed our initial public offering in October 2003. Prior to this offering, you could not buy or sell our common stock publicly. After this offering, the average daily trading volume for our common stock has been relatively low. An active public market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with respect to pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. Factors that could cause this volatility in the market price of our common stock include: · announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; · market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; · rumors relating to us or our competitors; · litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; · our quarterly operating results; · deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; and 40 · FDA or international regulatory actions. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate in response to the exercise by us of rights under the terms of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. For example, we may elect to automatically convert the preferred stock if our common stock price has exceeded 150% of the conversion price of the preferred stock for at least 20 trading days during a 30-day trading period ending within five trading days prior to the notice of automatic conversion. There is a risk of fluctuation in the price of our common stock between the time when we may first elect to automatically convert the preferred stock and the automatic conversion date. These fluctuations may adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our controlling equity holders may have conflicts of interests with us or you in the future. As of March 16, 2006, and based on information provided to us by such entities: Quaker Capital Management Corporation and its affiliates will beneficially own approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock; Bank of America Corporation and its affiliates will beneficially own approximately 9% of our outstanding common stock; the Baupost Group LLC will beneficially own approximately 9% of our outstanding common stock; Mr. Peter David Boone will beneficially own approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock; and Federated Investors, Inc. and its affiliates will beneficially own approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock. Collectively these investors will control approximately 42% of our common stock. These investors, particularly if they were to act together as a concentrated group, could exert influence over the election of our directors, direct our policies and operations, including future issuances of common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests, as a concentrated group, may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. This concentration of ownership among a small number of investors may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, thereby possibly depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of any sale or acquisition. Our common stock is junior to our preferred stock with respect to the right to receive payments in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of Acusphere. In February 2005, we issued and sold 900,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. As of March 16, 2006, 740,000 of these shares of preferred stock are outstanding. The preferred stock is senior to the common stock as to liquidation. In the event of our voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of Acusphere, holders of our preferred stock will receive a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $50 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends through the distribution date. Only after holders of the preferred stock have received their liquidation preference and any accrued and unpaid dividends will we distribute assets, if any are remaining, to our common stock holders. We may be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. 41 Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 16, 2006, we have approximately 22,901,720 shares of common stock outstanding and 740,000 shares of convertible preferred stock outstanding that are convertible into approximately 5.4 million shares of our common stock, plus up to a maximum of approximately 1.3 million additional shares of our common stock issuable at our option in satisfaction of the maximum dividend make-whole payment on these shares of preferred stock. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. The terms of our outstanding shares of preferred stock may restrict our ability to raise additional capital or hamper or prevent an acquisition of us. In February 2005, we issued and sold 900,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. As of March 16, 2006, 740,000 of these shares of preferred stock are outstanding. In the event of our voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of Acusphere, holders of our preferred stock will receive a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $50 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends through the distribution date. Only after holders of the preferred stock have received their liquidation preference and any accrued and unpaid dividends will we distribute assets, if any are remaining, to our common stock holders. Without the vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of preferred stock, we can not authorize or sell any equity security that ranks senior to the preferred stock as to dividends or distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Acusphere. As a result of this liquidation preference, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of common stock or junior preferred stock on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, without the vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of preferred stock we may not effect a consolidation or merger with another entity unless the preferred stock that remains outstanding and its rights, privileges and preferences are unaffected or are converted into or exchanged for preferred stock of the surviving entity having rights, preferences and limitations substantially similar, but no less favorable, to the convertible preferred stock. This provision could hamper a third party’s acquisition of us or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us via a merger. Under some circumstances, the holders of our outstanding shares of preferred stock may be entitled to elect some of the directors of Acusphere. In February 2005 we issued and sold 900,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. As of March 16, 2006, 740,000 of these shares of preferred stock are outstanding. Cumulative dividends accrue on our preferred stock at an annual rate of $3.25 per share, payable quarterly on the first day of March, June, September and December, commencing June 1, 2005. Any dividends must be declared by our board of directors and must come from funds that are legally available for dividend payments. If we have not paid dividends on the preferred stock in an aggregate amount equal to at least six quarterly dividends whether or not consecutive, we must increase the size of our board of directors by two additional directors. After this time, and for so long as these dividends remain due and unpaid, holders of the preferred stock, voting separately as a class with holders of preferred stock ranking on the same basis as to dividends having like voting rights, will be entitled to elect two additional directors at any meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected. These directors will be appointed to classes on the board as determined by our board of directors. These voting rights will terminate when we have declared and either paid or set aside for payment all accrued and unpaid dividends. The terms of office of all directors so elected will terminate immediately upon the termination of these voting rights. 42 Provisions of Delaware law or our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of Delaware law or our charter or by-laws could hamper a third party’s acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Further, these provisions make it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These provisions include: · a provision allowing us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of the common stock; · the existence of a staggered board of directors in which there are three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms, thus expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and potentially discouraging someone from making an acquisition proposal for us; · the by-laws’ requirement that stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; · the inability of stockholders to convene a stockholders’ meeting without the chairperson of the board, the chief executive officer, the president or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting; and · the application of Delaware law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the 15% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet specified criteria. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date and, other than cash dividends paid on our preferred stock, we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 