ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be materially and negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. Negative developments in the U.S. and local economy and in local real estate markets have adversely impacted our results and may continue to adversely impact our results in the future. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate deteriorated significantly from early 2008 through 2010. These challenges resulted primarily from provisions for loan losses and other real estate expense related to declining collateral values in our real estate loan portfolio and increased costs associated with our portfolio of other real estate owned. Although economic conditions appear to have stabilized in our markets in the more recent periods and we have refocused our efforts on growing our earning assets, we believe that we will continue to experience a slower growth economic environment in 2014. Accordingly, we expect that our results of operations could continue to be negatively impacted by economic conditions, including reduced loan demand, in 2014. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets, generally, or us in particular, will improve materially, or at all, in the near future, or thereafter, in which case we could continue to experience reduced earnings or again experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. The absolute level of interest rates as well as changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rate fluctuations are caused by many factors which, for the most part, are not under our control. For example, national monetary policy plays a significant role in the determination of interest rates. Additionally, competitor pricing and the resulting negotiations that occur with our customers also impact the rates we collect on loans and the rates we pay on deposits. As interest rates change, we expect that we will periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings) will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets (usually loans and investment securities), or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this "gap" may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Because of the number of loans that we have made with interest rate floors above current rates, in a rising rate environment our liabilities may reprice faster than our loans, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited. While we have announced that our board of directors had approved the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock there can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. Our principal source of funds used to pay cash dividends on our common stock will be dividends that we receive from Pinnacle Bank. Although Pinnacle Bank's asset quality, earnings performance, liquidity and capital requirements will be taken into account before we declare or pay any future dividends on our common stock, our board of directors will also consider our liquidity and capital requirements and our board of directors could determine to declare and pay dividends without relying on dividend payments from Pinnacle Bank. Federal and state banking laws and regulations and state corporate laws restrict the amount of dividends we may declare and pay. For example, under guidance issued by the Federal Reserve Board, as a bank holding company, we are required to consult with the Federal Reserve before declaring dividends and are to consider eliminating, deferring or reducing dividends if (i) our net income available to shareholders for the past four quarters, net of dividends previously paid during that period, is not sufficient to fully fund the dividends, (ii) our prospective rate of earnings retention is not consistent with our capital needs and overall current and prospective financial condition, or (iii) we will not meet, or are in danger of not meeting, our minimum regulatory capital adequacy ratios. In addition, the terms of the indentures pursuant to which our subordinated debentures have been issued prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock at times when we are deferring the payment of interest on our subordinated debentures. Moreover, the terms of our Loan Agreement prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock when there is an event of default or unmatured event of default under the Loan Agreement or when the payment of the dividend would result in an event of default or unmatured event of default under the Loan Agreement. 15 We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in certain industries, and we also target small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2013, we had meaningful credit exposures to borrowers in certain businesses, including commercial and residential building lessors, new home builders, and land subdividers. These industries experienced adversity during 2008 through 2010 as a result of sluggish economic conditions, and, as a result, an increased level of borrowers in these industries were unable to perform under their loan agreements with us, or suffered loan downgrades which negatively impacted our results of operations. If the economic environment in our markets weakens in 2014 or beyond, these industry concentrations could result in increased deterioration in credit quality, past dues, loan charge offs and collateral value declines, which could cause our earnings to be negatively impacted. Furthermore, any of our large credit exposures that deteriorate unexpectedly could cause us to have to make significant additional loan loss provisions, negatively impacting our earnings. A substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans primarily to small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2013, our commercial and industrial loans accounted for almost 39.0% of our total loans, up from 31.5% at December 31, 2010. Additionally, approximately, 16.4% of our loans at December 31, 2013 are owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, which are loans to businesses secured by the businesses' real estate. We expect to seek to expand the amount and percentage of such loans in our portfolio in 2014. During periods of slow economic growth like those we are currently experiencing, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this deterioration may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are geographically concentrated in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability. We currently operate primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and most of our borrowers, depositors and other customers live or have operations in these areas. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in these markets, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the areas, and our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in these markets. We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our markets will improve during 2014 or thereafter, and in that case, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations, the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover losses inherent in our portfolio, our earnings will decrease. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans, our earnings and capital levels will suffer. We make various assumptions and judgments about the probable losses in our loan portfolio, including the credit worthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of this allowance, we utilize estimates based on analysis of volume and types of loans, internal loan classifications, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies, nonaccruals and charge-offs, loss experience of various loan categories, national and local economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications, and other pertinent factors and information. If our assumptions are inaccurate, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover potential loan losses, and additional provisions may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of a particular borrower or our entire loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, accounting rule changes and other factors, both within and outside of our management's control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations. 16 Our ability to grow our loan portfolio may be limited by, among other things, economic conditions, competition within our market areas, the timing of loan repayments and seasonality. Our ability to continue to improve our operating results is dependent upon, among other things, aggressively growing our loan portfolio. While we believe that our strategy to grow our loan portfolio is sound and our growth targets are achievable over an extended period of time, competition within our market areas is significant, particularly for borrowers whose businesses have been less negatively impacted by the challenging economic conditions of the last few years. We compete with both large regional and national financial institutions, who are sometimes able to offer more attractive interest rates and other financial terms than we choose to offer, and smaller community-based financial institutions who seek to offer a similar level of service to that which we offer. This competition can make loan growth challenging, particularly if we are unwilling to price loans at levels that would cause unacceptable levels of compression of our net interest margin or if we are unwilling to structure a loan in a manner that we believe results in a level of risk to our Company that we are not willing to accept. Moreover, loan growth throughout the year can fluctuate due in part to seasonality of the businesses of our borrowers and potential borrowers and the timing on loan repayments, particularly those of our borrowers with significant relationships with us, resulting from, among other things, excess levels of liquidity. We continue to have elevated levels of other real estate owned, primarily as a result of foreclosures, and we anticipate that foreclosed real estate expense will continue to be a material component of noninterest expense. As we acted to resolve non-performing real estate loans over the last few years, our level of other real estate owned was elevated in comparison to our first six years of operation. Although, our levels of other real estate owned are diminishing, they remain higher than historical levels. As a result, we expect that we will continue to have elevated levels of foreclosed real estate expense. Foreclosed real estate expense consists of three types of charges: maintenance costs, valuation adjustments to appraisal values and gains or losses on disposition. Should levels of other real estate owned increase or should local real estate values decline, these charges will continue to negatively impact our results of operations. Our loan portfolio includes a meaningful amount of real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Although we have made meaningful progress over the last three years in reducing our concentration of real estate construction and development loans, the percentage of these loans in Pinnacle Bank's portfolio was approximately 7.6% of total loans at December 31, 2013. These loans make up approximately 5.9% of our non-performing loans at December 31, 2013. This type of lending is generally considered to have relatively high credit risks because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and operation of the related real estate project. The credit quality of many of these loans deteriorated during the challenging economic period of 2008 to 2012 due to the adverse conditions in the real estate market during that period and that type of deterioration could occur again. Weakness in residential real estate market prices as well as demand could result in price reductions in home and land values adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the construction and development loans that we hold. Should we experience the return of these adverse economic and real estate market conditions we may again experience increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased losses and expenses from the management and disposition of non-performing assets, increases in provision for loan losses, and increases in operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of loans, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. The effectiveness of our asset resolution activities are critical to our ability to improve, resolve or liquidate nonperforming loans and other real estate owned and thereby reduce loan losses and other real estate expense. Over the last several years, we have undertaken various initiatives to enhance our credit review, loan administration and special asset management and administration procedures, and believe that these enhancements have begun to reduce the levels of our problem and potential problem assets. However, continued improvement is dependent to a degree on the market conditions and other factors beyond our control and if we are unable to successfully manage our problem and potential problem assets in a timely matter, we could experience materially increased loan losses and other real estate expense. Recently adopted changes to capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions may negatively impact Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's results of operations In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial. The final rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 17 Under these rules, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms will become effective as to Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank on January 1, 2015, and include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% (to be phased in over three years) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if capital levels fall below minimum plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Under these new rules, Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, will continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. The definition of Tier 2 capital is generally unchanged for most banking organizations, subject to certain new eligibility criteria. Common equity Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. The final rules allow banks and their holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets a one-time opportunity to opt-out of a requirement to include unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income in their capital calculation. Pinnacle Financial expects that it will opt-out of this requirement. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank, like those adopted to implement the Basel III reforms, could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party service providers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify these systems as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet or through their mobile device. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote and mobile banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches (including breaches of security of customer systems and networks) and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of business, Pinnacle Bank may acquire, through foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, properties securing loans it has originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or Pinnacle Bank, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Many state and municipal governments, including the State of Tennessee, though showing signs of improvement, remain under financial stress due to the economy. As a result, these governments could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This landmark legislation includes, among other things, (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions and their holding companies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve; (iii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iv) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (v) the termination of investments by the U.S. Treasury under TARP; (vi) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (vii) the elimination of certain proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks; (viii) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (ix) a permanent increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; (x) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts; and (xi) changes in how the FDIC deposit insurance assessments will be calculated and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund. In January 2014, the qualified mortgage ("QM") rules as promulgated by the Consumer Finance Protection Bureau ("CFPB") became effective. These new rules impact certain residential mortgage products for the entire banking industry, including Pinnacle Bank. These new rules are complex and subject to much debate as the banking industry attempts to interpret the CFPB guidance and make decisions as to how the existing consumer lending compliance rules will reconcile with the new CFPB's guidance. We believe we have designed various residential mortgage products which should conform to the new CFPB guidance as well as the guidance of existing consumer lending regulations. However, we will continue to review the interpretational guidance of the various regulatory bodies in an effort to comply with these new regulations, such compliance may impact our operating results. Certain provisions of the legislation are not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than $10 billion in assets (like us) are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. Although several regulations implementing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been promulgated, we are still unable to predict how this significant new legislation may be interpreted and enforced or how implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We may not be able to continue to expand into the Knoxville MSA in the time frame and at the levels that we currently expect. In order to continue our expansion into the Knoxville MSA, we will be required to hire additional associates and expand our branch network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire the number of experienced associates that we need to successfully execute our strategy in the Knoxville MSA, nor can we assure you that the associates we hire will be able to successfully execute our growth strategy in that market. Additionally, we generally are required to notify the TDFI and publish notice in the newspaper (and the TDFI must not object within 15 days of the public notice) prior to the opening of any new branch facility. Because we seek to hire experienced associates, the compensation cost associated with these individuals may be higher than that of other financial institutions of similar size in the market. If we are unable to grow our loan portfolio at planned rates or slow our growth in the Knoxville MSA, the increased compensation expense of these experienced associates may negatively impact our results of operations. Because there will be a period of time before we are able to fully deploy our resources in the Knoxville MSA, our start up costs, including the cost of our associates and our branch expansion, will negatively impact our results of operations. Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We, and Pinnacle Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators, including those capital maintenance standards imposed on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and we are required to serve as a source of strength to Pinnacle Bank. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. Pinnacle Bank is required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to us unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its retained net income for that calendar year plus net income for the preceding two years. Any restriction in the ability of Pinnacle Bank to pay dividends to us could impact our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common stock. Moreover, failure by our bank subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject our bank subsidiary to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. Certain of our deposits and other funding sources may be volatile and impact our liquidity. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits less than $250,000, we utilize or in the past have utilized several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of Pinnacle Bank. The availability of these noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions and to investor assessment of our financial strength and, as such, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. We have somewhat similar risks to the extent high balance core deposits exceed the amount of deposit insurance coverage available. We impose certain internal limits as to the absolute level of noncore funding we will incur at any point in time. Should we exceed those limitations, we may need to modify our growth plans, liquidate certain assets, participate loans to correspondents or execute other actions to allow for us to return to an acceptable level of noncore funding within a reasonable amount of time. Additionally, regulations regarding on-balance sheet liquidity, particularly in times of stress, have become increasing important to bankers and regulators. On-balance sheet liquidity is generally defined as cash and cash equivalents as well as unpledged investment securities and represent an immediate source of liquidity for deposit outflows and loan fundings among other things. Given the current regulatory emphasis, bankers are designing and constructing more sophisticated contingency funding plans in order to determine the required amount of on-balance sheet liquidity should a banking firm find itself in a liquidity crisis. In order to determine the factors that drive the results of these plans, managements are researching their firm's liquidity history over previous years to determine customer behavior during various times of stress. These results will be the key component of the amount of on-balance sheet liquidity the firm is required to maintain in order for the banking firm to survive a "liquidity event". These matters could require a bank, including ours, to allocate increased funding to more lower yielding cash or cash equivalents on its balance sheet thus potentially impacting profitability in future periods. If the federal funds and interbank funding rates remain at current extremely low levels, our net interest margin, and consequently our net earnings, may be negatively impacted. Because of significant competitive pressures in our market and the negative impact of these pressures on our deposit and loan pricing, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors' federal funds rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (both of which are at extremely low levels as a result of current economic conditions), our net interest margin may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the amount of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned has been and may continue to be elevated. We also expect loan pricing to remain competitive in 2014 and believe that economic factors affecting broader markets will likely result in reduced yields for our investment securities portfolio. As a result, our net interest margin, and consequently our profitability, may continue to be negatively impacted in 2014 and beyond. A decline in our stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in impairment of our goodwill. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization below book value, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of our goodwill. At December 31, 2013, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $247.4 million. If we were to conclude that a write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then the appropriate charge would likely cause a material loss. Any significant loss would further adversely impact the capacity of Pinnacle Bank to pay dividends to us without seeking prior regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our ability to pay required interest payments and preferred stock dividends. 20 Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect our profitability. A number of banking institutions in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share of loans or deposits. In addition, our asset management division competes with numerous brokerage firms and mutual fund companies which are also much larger. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage. This competition may limit or reduce our profitability, reduce our growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Inability to retain senior management and key employees or to attract new experienced financial services professionals could impair our relationship with our customers, reduce growth and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the Nashville and Knoxville markets. Moreover, much of our loan growth in 2012 and 2013 was the result of our ability to attract experienced financial services professionals who have been able to attract customers from other financial institutions. Inability to retain these key personnel or to continue to attract experienced lenders with established books of business could negatively impact our growth because of the loss these individuals' skills and customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. We are from time to time subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. The outcome of these cases is uncertain. However, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In order to maintain our or Pinnacle Bank's capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute stockholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions, which would also dilute stockholder ownership. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market's Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which stockholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If a change in control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Provisions in our corporate documents, as well as certain federal and state regulations, may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our board of directors opposes. As a result, our stockholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of our stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter also will make it more difficult for an outside stockholder to remove our current board of directors or management. 21 Holders of Pinnacle Financial's indebtedness and junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of Pinnacle Financial's stockholders. Pinnacle Financial has issued trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2013, Pinnacle Financial had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $82.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by Pinnacle Financial. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures Pinnacle Financial issued to the trusts are senior to Pinnacle Financial's shares of common stock. As a result, Pinnacle Financial must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on common stock and, in the event of Pinnacle Financial's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial's common stock. Pinnacle Financial has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. If our financial condition deteriorates or if we do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may be required to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures. On June 15, 2012, Pinnacle Financial entered into a loan agreement with a bank for $25 million, which was subsequently amended on October 2, 2013 (the "Loan Agreement"). Borrowings under the Loan Agreement, combined with available cash, were used for the redemption, on June 20, 2012, of the remaining 71,250 shares of preferred stock owned by the U.S. Treasury that had been issued under the CPP. Pinnacle Financial is required to make quarterly principal payments of $625,000 which began on September 30, 2012, until the loan matures on June 15, 2017. The Loan Agreement includes negative covenants that limit, among other things, certain fundamental transactions, additional indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, liens, and sales of assets. As amended, the Loan Agreement permits Pinnacle Financial to pay dividends so long as there is no event of default or unmatured event of default under the Loan Agreement and the payment of the dividend would not cause an event of default or unmatured event of default. The Loan Agreement specifically restricts transfers or encumbrances of the shares of the capital stock of Pinnacle Financial's bank subsidiary. The Loan Agreement also includes financial covenants related to Pinnacle Financial's, and in some cases, Pinnacle Bank's, capitalization, levels of risk-based capital, ratio of nonperforming assets to tangible primary capital and ratio of allowance for loan and lease losses to nonperforming loans. The Loan Agreement also contains other customary affirmative and negative covenants, representations, warranties and events of default, which include but are not limited to, payment defaults, breaches of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and the institution of certain regulatory enforcement actions against Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, Pinnacle Financial may be required immediately to repay all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement. Furthermore, in the event of Pinnacle Financial's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of this borrowing must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial's common stock. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. We have made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create additional efficiencies in our operations through the use of technology. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to various statutes and regulations that may impose additional costs or limit our ability to take certain actions. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged on loans, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements established by our regulators, which require us to maintain specified levels of capital. It is possible that our FDIC assessments may increase in the future. Any future assessment increases could negatively impact our results of operations. Significant changes in laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry have been recently adopted and others are being considered in Congress. We cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 