ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. We are geographically concentrated in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability. We currently operate primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and most all of our loan, deposit and other customers live or have operations in the Nashville MSA. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the Nashville MSA, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the area. Our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in this market. Additionally, unfavorable local or national economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We may not be able to continue to expand into the Knoxville MSA in the time frame and at the levels that we currently expect and our projected expansion may continue to reduce our net income in 2008. In order to continue our expansion into the Knoxville MSA we will be required to hire a significant number of new associates and build out a branch network. We can not assure you that we will be able to hire the number of experienced associates that we need to successfully execute our strategy in the Knoxville MSA, nor can we assure you that the associates we hire will be able to successfully execute our growth strategy in that market. Because we seek to hire experienced associates, the compensation cost associated with these individuals may be higher than that of other financial institutions of similar size in the market. If we are unable to grow our loan portfolio at planned rates, the increased compensation expense of these experienced associates may negatively impact our results of operations. Because there will be a period of time before we are able to fully deploy our resources in the Knoxville MSA, our start up costs, including the cost of our associates and our branch expansion, will negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, if we are not able to expand our branch footprint in the Knoxville MSA in the time period that we have targeted, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Execution of our growth plans in the Knoxville MSA also depends on continued growth in the Knoxville economy, and unfavorable local or national economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their obligations to us and generally negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our continued growth may require the need for additional capital and further regulatory approvals which, if not obtained, could adversely impact our profitability and implementation of our current business plan. To continue to grow, we will need to provide sufficient capital to Pinnacle National through earnings generation, additional equity or trust preferred offerings or borrowed funds or any combination of these sources of funds. For certain amounts or types of indebtedness, we may be required to obtain certain regulatory approvals beforehand. Should our growth exceed our expectations, we may need to raise additional capital over our projected capital needs. However, our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, Page 16 Table of Contents will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand and grow our operations could be materially impaired. Additionally, our current plan involves increasing our branch network, which will require capital expenditures. Our expansion efforts will likely also require certain regulatory approvals. Should we not be able to obtain such approvals or otherwise not be able to grow our asset base, our ability to attain our long-term profitability goals will be more difficult. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in certain industries and we also target small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2007, we had significant credit exposures to borrowers in the trucking industry; commercial and residential building lessors; new home builders and to land subdividers. If any of these industries experience an economic slowdown and, as a result, the borrowers in these industries are unable to perform their obligations under their existing loan agreements, our earnings could be negatively impacted, causing the value of our common stock to decline. Additionally, a substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans primarily to small to medium-sized business. At December 31, 2007, our commercial and industrial loans accounted for 30% of our total loans. During periods of economic weakness, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this determination may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. With our recent acquisitions of Cavalry and Mid-America, we significantly increased our real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Following the acquisitions of Cavalry and Mid-America, construction and development lending is a more significant portion of Pinnacle Financial’s loan portfolio than it was prior to these acquisitions. The percentage of construction and land development loans in our bank subsidiaries’ portfolios increased to approximately 18.7% of total loans at December 31, 2007 from 16.9% at December 31, 2006 and 10.5% at December 31, 2005. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Additionally, Pinnacle National may experience significant construction loan losses because independent appraisers or project engineers inaccurately estimate the cost and value of construction loan projects. Also, in the event of a general economic downturn in the construction industry, Pinnacle Financial’s results of operations may be adversely impacted and its net book value may be reduced. We may not be able to successfully integrate Mid-America’s operations with ours or realize the anticipated benefits of our merger with Mid-America. The merger of Mid-America with and into Pinnacle Financial involves the combination of two bank holding companies that previously have operated independently and in the case of Mid-America, two separate bank subsidiaries that operate separate from one another. A successful combination of the operations of the three bank subsidiaries will depend substantially on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may not be able to combine our operations with the operations of Mid-America without encountering difficulties, such as: • the loss of key employees and customers; • the disruption of operations and business; • inability to maintain and increase competitive presence; • loan and deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss; • possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit; and/or • problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel, which could divert resources from regular banking operations. Additionally, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may inhibit our successful integration with Mid-America and our respective bank subsidiaries. Page 17 Table of Contents Further, we entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a strengthened market position for the combined company, cross selling opportunities, technology, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we integrate Mid-America and its bank subsidiaries in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in a reduction in the price of our shares as well as in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially impact our business, financial condition and operating results. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings. We may incur significant costs integrating Mid-America. We expect to incur significant costs associated with combining our operations with those of Mid-America. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with the business of Mid-America. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, our earnings would suffer. We make various assumptions and judgments about the probable losses in our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the repayment of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of this allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on volume and types of loans, internal loan classifications, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies, nonaccruals and charge-offs, national and local economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications, and other pertinent factors and information. Because we are a relatively young organization, our allowance estimation may be less reflective of our historical loss experience than a more mature organization. If our assumptions are inaccurate, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover potential loan losses, and additional provisions may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of our loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. The absolute level of interest rates as well as changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rate fluctuations are caused by many factors which, for the most part, are not under our direct control. For example, national monetary policy plays a significant role in the determination of interest rates. Additionally, competitor pricing and the resulting negotiations that occur with our customers also impact the rates we collect on loans and the rates we pay on deposits. As interest rates change, we expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Changes in tax law, federal legislation and regulation, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or chargeoffs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Recently, the Tennessee Commissioner of Revenue has proposed changes in taxation of certain bank subsidiaries that would increase our state taxes materially, and the likelihood of such changes being adopted is currently uncertain. Page 18 Table of Contents Loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has a substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the Nashville market. Loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our earnings because of their skills, customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect our profitability. A number of banking institutions in the Nashville market have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share of loans or deposits. In addition, our asset management division competes with numerous brokerage firms and mutual fund companies which are also much larger. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage, although many of our customers have selected us because of service quality concerns at the larger enterprises. This competition may limit or reduce our profitability, reduce our growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, we may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If a change in control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Provisions in our corporate documents, as well as certain federal and state regulations, may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our board of directors opposes. As a result, our shareholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of our stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter also will make it more difficult for an outside shareholder to remove our current board of directors or management. Holders of Pinnacle Financial’s bank indebtedness and junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of Pinnacle Financial’s common shareholders. Pinnacle Financial has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2007, Pinnacle Financial had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $82.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by Pinnacle Financial. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures Pinnacle Financial issued to the trusts are senior to Pinnacle Financial’s shares of common stock. As a result, Pinnacle Financial must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of Pinnacle Financial’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial’s common stock. Pinnacle Financial has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. Page 19 Table of Contents The amount of common stock owned by, and other compensation arrangements with, our officers and directors may make it more difficult to obtain shareholder approval of potential takeovers that they oppose. As of March 1, 2008, directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 7.6% of our common stock. Employment agreements with our senior management also provide for significant payments under certain circumstances following a change in control. These compensation arrangements, together with the common stock, option and warrant ownership of our board and management, could make it difficult or expensive to obtain majority support for shareholder proposals or potential acquisition proposals of us that our directors and officers oppose. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. We have made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create additional efficiencies in our operations through the use of technology, particularly in light of our past and projected growth strategy. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our internal control over financial reporting may have weaknesses or inadequacies that may be material. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and our auditor to attest to such evaluation on an annual basis. Management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2007. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is included on page 53 of this Form 10-K and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting is included on page 55 of this Form 10-K. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is expected to be expensive and time-consuming and may negatively impact our results of operations. While our management did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007, and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot make any assurances that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If any material weaknesses are identified in the future, we may be required to make material changes in our internal control over financial reporting which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, upon such occurrence, our management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. If we cannot conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting which may cause the value of our common stock to decrease. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we did not have to include Mid-America’s operations in our analysis of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we cannot assure you that these operations have effective internal controls at December 31, 2007. We will include these operations in our analysis for 2008, so we expect to incur costs and expenses associated with evaluating the internal controls related to the former Mid-America operations and to implement our internal control practices for these operations. We are subject to various statutes and regulations that may limit our ability to take certain actions. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 20 Table of Contents 