ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. Several risk factors regarding investing in our common stock are discussed below. This listing should not be considered as all-inclusive. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. We are geographically concentrated in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability. We currently operate primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee MSA, and most all of our loan, deposit and other customers live or have operations in the Nashville MSA. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in the Nashville MSA, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the area. Our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in this market. Additionally, unfavorable local or national economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We may not be able to continue to expand into the Knoxville MSA in the time frame and at the levels that we currently expect and our projected expansion may continue to reduce our net income in 2009. In order to continue our expansion into the Knoxville MSA we will be required to hire a significant number of new associates and build out a branch network. We can not assure you that we will be able to hire the number of experienced associates that we need to successfully execute our strategy in the Knoxville MSA, nor can we assure you that the associates we hire will be able to successfully execute our growth strategy in that market. Because we seek to hire experienced associates, the compensation cost associated with these individuals may be higher than that of other financial institutions of similar size in the market. If we are unable to grow our loan portfolio at planned rates, the increased compensation expense of these experienced associates may negatively impact our results of operations. Because there will be a period of time before we are able to fully deploy our resources in the Knoxville MSA, our start up costs, including the cost of our associates and our branch expansion, will negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, if we are not able to expand our branch footprint in the Knoxville MSA in the time period that we have targeted, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Execution of our growth plans in the Knoxville MSA also depends on continued growth in the Knoxville economy, and unfavorable local or national economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their obligations to us and generally negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and U.S. and global credit markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007 and throughout 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing into 2009. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, amongst other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. Page 18 Table of Contents Our continued growth may require the need for additional capital and further regulatory approvals which, if not obtained, could adversely impact our profitability and implementation of our current business plan. To continue to grow, we will need to provide sufficient capital to Pinnacle National through earnings generation, additional equity or trust preferred offerings or borrowed funds or any combination of these sources of funds. For certain amounts or types of indebtedness, we may be required to obtain certain regulatory approvals beforehand. We recently received a $95 million preferred stock investment from the U.S. Treasury under the TARP capital purchase program. The terms of this investment provide incentives for us to replace this capital with other forms of Tier 1 capital from third parties as soon as practicable; however, our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand and grow our operations could be materially impaired. Additionally, our current plan involves increasing our branch network, which will require capital expenditures. Our expansion efforts will likely also require certain regulatory approvals. Should we not be able to obtain such approvals or otherwise not be able to grow our asset base, our ability to attain our long-term profitability goals will be more difficult. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in certain industries and we also target small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2008, we had significant credit exposures to borrowers in the trucking industry; commercial and residential building lessors; new home builders and to land subdividers. All of these industries are experiencing adversity in the current recession and, as a result, the borrowers in these industries could become unable to perform their obligations under their existing loan agreements, which could cause our earnings to be negatively impacted, causing the value of our common stock to decline. Furthermore, any of our large credit exposures that deteriorate unexpectedly as a result of the recession could cause us to have to make significant additional loan loss provisions, negatively impacting our earnings. Additionally, a substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans primarily to small to medium-sized business. At December 31, 2008, our commercial and industrial loans accounted for almost 29% of our total loans. During periods of economic weakness, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this determination may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisitions have significantly increased our real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Following the acquisitions of Cavalry and Mid-America, construction and development lending is a more significant portion of Pinnacle Financial’s loan portfolio than it was prior to these acquisitions. The percentage of construction and land development loans in our bank subsidiaries’ portfolios were approximately 19.6% of total loans at December 31, 2008 compared to 21.2% at December 31, 2007, 16.9% at December 31, 2006 and 10.5% at December 31, 2005. This type of lending is generally considered to have more complex credit risks than traditional single-family residential lending because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate project. Consequently, these loans are more sensitive to the current adverse conditions in the real estate market and the general economy. These loans are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor and collateral may be difficult to dispose of in a market decline. Furthermore, to the extent repayment is dependent upon the sale of newly constructed homes or of lots, such sales are likely to be at lower prices or at a slower rate than as expected when the loan was made which may result in such loans being placed on non-accrual status and subject to higher loss estimates even if the borrower keeps interest payments current. Additionally, Pinnacle National may experience significant construction loan losses because independent appraisers or project engineers inaccurately estimate the cost and value of construction loan projects. Also, in the event of a continued general economic downturn in the construction industry, Pinnacle Financial’s results of operations may be adversely impacted and its net book value may be reduced. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans according to the terms of these loans, our earnings and capital levels will suffer. We make various assumptions and judgments about the probable losses in our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the repayment of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of this allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio based on volume and types of loans, internal loan classifications, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies, nonaccruals and charge-offs, national and local economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications, and other pertinent factors and information. Because we are a relatively young organization, our allowance estimation may be less reflective of our historical loss experience than a more mature organization. If our Page 19 Table of Contents assumptions are inaccurate, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover potential loan losses, and additional provisions may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of our loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Noncore funding represents a large component of our funding base. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati advances, Federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of Pinnacle Financial. The availability of these noncore funding sources are subject to broad economic conditions and, as such, the pricing on these sources may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted at any point in time, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. Brokered certificates of deposit have received scrutiny from regulators in recent months. We impose upon ourselves limitations as to the absolute level of brokered deposits we may have on our balance sheet at any point in time. The pricing of these deposits are subject to the broader wholesale funding market and may fluctuate significantly in a very short period of time. Additionally, the availability of these deposits is impacted by overall market conditions as investors determine whether to invest in the less risky certificates of deposit or in the more risky debt and equity markets. As money flows between these various investment instruments, market conditions will impact the pricing and availability of brokered funds. In recent months, the financial media has disclosed that the nation’s Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) system may be under stress due to deterioration in the financial markets, particularly in relation to valuation of mortgage securities. Several FHLB institutions have announced impairment charges of these and other assets and as such their capital positions have deteriorated to the point that they may suspend dividend payments to their members. We are a member of the FHLB-Cincinnati which continues to pay dividends. However, should financial conditions continue to weaken, the FHLB system (including FHLB-Cincinnati) in the future may have to, not only suspend dividend payments, but also curtail advances to member institutions like Pinnacle Financial. Should the FHLB system deteriorate to the point of not being able to fund future advances to banks, including Pinnacle National, this would place increased pressure on other wholesale funding sources. We impose certain internal limits as to the absolute level of noncore funding we will incur on our balance sheet at any point in time. Should we exceed those limitations, we may need to modify our growth plans, liquidate certain assets, participate loans to correspondents or execute other actions to allow for us to return to an acceptable level of noncore funding within a reasonable amount of time. If the federal funds rate remains at current extremely low levels, our net interest margin, and consequently our net earnings, may continue to be negatively impacted. Because of significant competitive deposit pricing pressures in our market and the negative impact of these pressures on our cost of funds, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve’s federal funds rate (which is at an extremely low rate as a result of the current recession), we have experienced net interest margin compression throughout 2008. Because of these competitive pressures, we are unable to lower the rate that we pay on interest-bearing liabilities to the same extent and as quickly as the yields we charge on interest-earning assets. As a result, our net interest margin, and consequently our profitability, has been negatively impacted. If the Federal Reserve’s federal funds rate remains at extremely low levels, our higher funding costs may negatively impact our net interest margin and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. The absolute level of interest rates as well as changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rate fluctuations are caused by many factors which, for the most part, are not under our direct control. For example, national monetary policy plays a significant role in the determination of interest rates. Additionally, competitor pricing and the resulting negotiations that occur with our customers also impact the rates we collect on loans and the rates we pay on deposits. Page 20 Table of Contents As interest rates change, we expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Loss of our senior executive officers or other key employees could impair our relationship with our customers and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has a substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the Nashville market. Loss of these key personnel could negatively impact our earnings because of their skills, customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect our profitability. A number of banking institutions in the Nashville market have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share of loans or deposits. In addition, our asset management division competes with numerous brokerage firms and mutual fund companies which are also much larger. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage, although many of our customers have selected us because of service quality concerns at the larger enterprises. This competition may limit or reduce our profitability, reduce our growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Series A preferred stock impacts net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share. As long as shares of our Series A preferred stock are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, for so long as the Treasury owns shares of the Series A preferred stock, we are not permitted to pay cash dividends on our common stock without the Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of our Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The shares of our Series A preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock and we do not believe that we will consider paying dividends until Pinnacle National has reached a level of profitability appropriate to fund such dividends and support asset growth. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of our common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that we have issued to the Treasury is senior to our shares of common stock and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of our common stock. The Series A preferred stock will rank senior to our common stock and all other equity securities of ours designated as ranking junior to the Series A preferred stock. So long as any shares of the Series A preferred stock remain outstanding, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all prior dividend periods have been paid or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full, no dividend whatsoever shall be paid or declared on our common stock or other junior stock, other than a dividend payable solely in common stock. We and our subsidiaries also may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of our common stock or other junior stock unless we have paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances described more fully below. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of our common stock in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Page 21 Table of Contents Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to our board of directors. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting our board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, referred to as voting parity stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of our board of directors, referred to as the preferred stock directors, at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except as otherwise required by law and in connection with the election of directors to our board of directors in the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of the Series A preferred stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred stock so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A preferred stock remain outstanding, or if we are not the surviving entity in such transaction, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity and the shares of Series A preferred stock remaining outstanding or such preference securities have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable to the holders than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting power of the shares of Series A preferred stock. We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain our capital at desired or regulatory-required levels or to replace existing capital such as our Series A preferred stock, we may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which shareholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If a change in control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Provisions in our corporate documents, as well as certain federal and state regulations, may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our board of directors opposes. As a result, our shareholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of our stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter also will make it more difficult for an outside shareholder to remove our current board of directors or management. Page 22 Table of Contents Holders of Pinnacle Financial’s bank indebtedness and junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of Pinnacle Financial’s common shareholders. Pinnacle Financial has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2008, Pinnacle Financial had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $82.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by Pinnacle Financial. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures Pinnacle Financial issued to the trusts are senior to Pinnacle Financial’s shares of common stock. As a result, Pinnacle Financial must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on its common stock and, in the event of Pinnacle Financial’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial’s common stock. Pinnacle Financial has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. We have made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create additional efficiencies in our operations through the use of technology, particularly in light of our past and projected growth strategy. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our internal control over financial reporting may have weaknesses or inadequacies that may be material. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and our auditor to attest to such evaluation on an annual basis. Management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2008. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is included on page 56 of this Form 10-K and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on internal control over financial reporting is included on page 58 of this Form 10-K. While our management did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2008, and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective, we cannot make any assurances that material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If any material weaknesses are identified in the future, we may be required to make material changes in our internal control over financial reporting which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, upon such occurrence, our management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to attest that our internal control over financial reporting was effective. If we cannot conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is not able to attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting which may cause the value of our common stock to decrease. We are subject to various statutes and regulations that may limit our ability to take certain actions. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Page 23 Table of Contents 