D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Financial Condition—We may be adversely affected by the current economic environment" and "—Continued turmoil in the credit markets could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our shares and ADSs to suffer." Capital Requirements We need capital to finance the following: •capital expenditures, consisting of purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets; •acquisitions; •repayment of debt and related interest payments; •changes in working capital; and •general corporate activities, including dividends. We anticipate that capital expenditures, acquisitions, repayment of long-term debt and dividends will represent the most significant uses of funds for several years to come. Our cash outlays for capital expenditures in 2007, 2008 and 2009 were $1,899.0 million, $2,612.8 million and $2,328.3 million, respectively. We expect to continue to finance most of our capital expenditure needs through our operating cash flows, and to the extent required, to incur additional indebtedness through borrowings or additional capital raising activities. Historically, a significant portion of our capital expenditures have been related to the installation and buildout of our network and expansion into new license areas. We expect that capital expenditures will remain a large portion of our cash outflows in connection with the continued installation and buildout of our network. We expect our total capital expenditures in 2010 to be approximately $2,598.0 million. These investments are required to support the growth in our subscriber base (i.e., to improve network capacity), to maintain and modernize our mobile and fixed line networks, to develop our network in the regions and to continue the buildout of our 3G and broadband Internet networks. We expect that the development of our 3G network and modernization of our fixed line networks will be among our most significant 151 Table of Contents capital expenditures and require considerable management resources. See "