ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. Negative developments in the U.S. and local economy and in local real estate markets have adversely impacted our results and may continue to adversely impact our results in the future. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate deteriorated significantly between early 2008 and the middle of 2010. As a result, we incurred significant losses in 2009 and the first half of 2010 and have continued to experience reduced earnings since that period as compared to our historical level of performance. These challenges resulted primarily from provisions for loan losses and other real estate expense related to declining collateral values in our real estate loan portfolio and increased costs associated with our portfolio of other real estate owned. Although economic conditions began to stabilize in our markets in the second half of 2010 and throughout 2011 and we began to refocus our efforts on growing our earning assets, we believe that we will continue to experience a somewhat, albeit less, challenging economic environment in 2012. Accordingly, we expect that our results of operations will continue to be negatively impacted by economic conditions, including reduced loan demand, in 2012. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets, generally, or us in particular, will improve materially, or at all, in the near future, or thereafter, in which case we could continue to experience reduced earnings or again experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. Our loan portfolio includes a meaningful amount of real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Although we have made meaningful progress over the last two years in reducing our concentration of real estate construction and development loans, the percentage of these loans in Pinnacle National’s portfolio was approximately 8.3% of total loans at December 31, 2011. These loans make up approximately 27.1% of our non-performing loans at December 31, 2011. This type of lending is generally considered to have relatively high credit risks because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and operation of the related real estate project. The credit quality of many of these loans has deteriorated as a result of the current adverse conditions in the real estate market. The continued depression in residential real estate market prices and demand could result in further price reductions in home and land values adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the construction and development loans that we hold. These adverse economic and real estate market conditions may lead to further increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased losses and expenses from the management and disposition of non-performing assets, increases in provision for loan losses, and increases in operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of loans, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in certain industries, and we also target small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2011, we had significant credit exposures to borrowers in certain businesses, including commercial and residential building lessors, new home builders, and land subdividers. These industries continue to experience adversity as a result of the continued sluggish economic conditions, and, as a result, an increased level of borrowers in these industries have been unable to perform their obligations under their existing loan agreements with us, or have suffered loan downgrades which has negatively impacted our results of operations. If the economic environment in our markets does not improve significantly in 2012 or beyond, these industry concentrations could result in higher than normal deterioration in credit quality, past dues, loan charge offs and collateral value declines, which could cause our earnings to be negatively impacted. Furthermore, any of our large credit exposures that deteriorate unexpectedly could cause us to have to make significant additional loan loss provisions, negatively impacting our earnings. Page 18 Table of Contents A substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans primarily to small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2011, our commercial and industrial loans accounted for almost 34.8% of our total loans up from 31.5% at December 31, 2010. Additionally, approximately, 17.7% of our loans at December 31, 2011 are owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, which are loans to businesses secured by the businesses’ real estate. We expect to seek to expand the amount and percentage of such loans in our portfolio in 2012. During periods of economic weakness like those we are currently experiencing, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this deterioration may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are geographically concentrated in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability. We currently operate primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and most of our loan, deposit and other customers live or have operations in these areas. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in these markets, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the areas, and our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in these markets. Economic conditions in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs remained sluggish during 2011, negatively affecting our operations, particularly the real estate construction and development segment of our loan portfolio. We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our markets will improve during 2012 or thereafter, and in that case, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations, the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans, our earnings and capital levels will suffer. We make various assumptions and judgments about the probable losses in our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of this allowance, we utilize estimates based on analyses of volume and types of loans, internal loan classifications, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies, nonaccruals and charge-offs, loss experience of various loan categories, national and local economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications, and other pertinent factors and information. If our assumptions are inaccurate, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover potential loan losses, and additional provisions may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of a particular borrower or our entire loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our management’s control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations. We have increased levels of other real estate owned, primarily as a result of foreclosures, and we anticipate higher levels of foreclosed real estate expense. As we have acted to resolve non-performing real estate loans, we have increased the level of foreclosed properties, primarily those acquired from builders and from residential land developers. Foreclosed real estate expense consists of three types of charges: maintenance costs, valuation adjustments to appraisal values and gains or losses on disposition. As levels of other real estate owned increase and also as local real estate values decline, these charges will increase, negatively impacting our results of operations. Page 19 Table of Contents The effectiveness of our asset management activities are critical to our ability to improve, resolve or liquidate nonperforming loans and other real estate owned and thereby reduce loan losses and other real estate expense. Over the last several years, we have undertaken various initiatives to enhance our credit review, loan administration and special asset management and administration procedures, and believe that these enhancements have begun to reduce the levels of our problem and potential problem assets. However, continued improvement is dependent to a degree on the market conditions and other factors beyond our control and if we are unable to successfully manage our problem and potential problem assets in a timely matter, we could experience materially increased loan losses and other real estate expense. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify these systems as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of business, Pinnacle National may acquire, through foreclosure, properties securing loans it has originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or Pinnacle National, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Federal bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Many state and municipal governments, including the State of Tennessee, are under financial stress due to the economy. As a result, these governments could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. Page 20 Table of Contents Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This landmark legislation includes, among other things, (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions and their holding companies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve; (iii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iv) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (v) the termination of investments by the U.S. Treasury under TARP; (vi) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (vii) the elimination of certain proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks; (viii) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (ix) a permanent increase of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; (x) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts; and (xi) changes in how the FDIC deposit insurance assessments will be calculated and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund. Certain provisions of the legislation are not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than $10 billion in assets (like us) are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. Although certain regulations implementing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been promulgated, we are still unable to predict how this significant new legislation may be interpreted and enforced or how implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to continue to expand into the Knoxville MSA in the time frame and at the levels that we currently expect. In order to continue our expansion into the Knoxville MSA, we will be required to hire additional associates and expand our branch network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire the number of experienced associates that we need to successfully execute our strategy in the Knoxville MSA, nor can we assure you that the associates we hire will be able to successfully execute our growth strategy in that market. Additionally, we are required to seek OCC approval prior to the construction of any new branch facility, which cannot be assured. Because we seek to hire experienced associates, the compensation cost associated with these individuals may be higher than that of other financial institutions of similar size in the market. If we are unable to grow our loan portfolio at planned rates or slow our growth in the Knoxville MSA, the increased compensation expense of these experienced associates may negatively impact our results of operations. Because there will be a period of time before we are able to fully deploy our resources in the Knoxville MSA, our start up costs, including the cost of our associates and our branch expansion, will negatively impact our results of operations. If we are unable to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of our Series A preferred stock prior to December 12, 2013, the dividend rate payable by us on those shares increases to 9% per annum. The dividend rate on our Series A preferred stock is currently 5% per annum and will remain 5% per annum until the five year anniversary of the issuance date of those shares. Thereafter, the dividend rate increases to 9% per annum. While we believe that we will be able to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock prior to the dividend rate increasing, we must receive the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta in order to do so. While we believe that we will be able to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock with minimal or no dilution to our common shareholders, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta may require us to increase our common equity capital in connection with granting its required approval. If we are required to sell additional shares of common stock to raise additional equity capital in connection with the redemption of shares of our Series A preferred stock that remain outstanding, we may have to sell these shares of common stock at prices below the then current market price of those shares, diluting the ownership interest of our then common shareholders. Page 21 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We, and Pinnacle National, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators, including those capital maintenance standards imposed on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and we are required to serve as a source of strength to Pinnacle National. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We have informally agreed to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta before incurring new debt, repurchasing stock, paying interest on subordinated debt or paying dividends on our common or preferred stock. This repayment and any failure to obtain such approval, could adversely affect our access to the capital markets or ability to obtain funding. Pinnacle National will be required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to us unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its retained net profits for that year plus the preceding two years. Failure by our bank subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject our bank subsidiary to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. Certain of our deposits and other funding sources may be volatile and impact our liquidity. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of Pinnacle National. The availability of these noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions and to investor assessment of our financial strength and, as such, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. We have somewhat similar risks to the extent core deposits exceed the amount of deposit insurance coverage available. We impose certain internal limits as to the absolute level of noncore funding we will incur at any point in time. Should we exceed those limitations, we may need to modify our growth plans, liquidate certain assets, participate loans to correspondents or execute other actions to allow for us to return to an acceptable level of noncore funding within a reasonable amount of time. If the federal funds rate remains at current extremely low levels, our net interest margin, and consequently our net earnings, may be negatively impacted. Because of significant competitive pressures in our market and the negative impact of these pressures on our deposit and loan pricing, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors’ federal funds rate (which is at an extremely low rate as a result of current economic conditions), our net interest margin may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the amount of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned has been and may continue to be elevated. We also expect loan pricing to remain competitive in 2012 and believe that economic factors affecting broader markets will likely result in reduced yields for our investment securities portfolio as prepayments continue to escalate. As a result, our net interest margin, and consequently our profitability, may continue to be negatively impacted in 2012 and beyond. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. The absolute level of interest rates as well as changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rate fluctuations are caused by many factors which, for the most part, are not under our control. For example, national monetary policy plays a significant role in the determination of interest rates. Additionally, competitor pricing and the resulting negotiations that occur with our customers also impact the rates we collect on loans and the rates we pay on deposits. As interest rates change, we expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings) will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets (usually loans and investment securities), or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Page 22 Table of Contents A decline in our stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in impairment of our goodwill. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization below book value, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of our goodwill. At December 31, 2011, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $251.9 million. If we were to conclude that a write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then the appropriate charge would likely cause a material loss. Any significant loss would further adversely impact the capacity of Pinnacle National to pay dividends to us without seeking prior regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our ability to pay required interest payments and preferred stock dividends. We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure you that it will be fully realized. We had net deferred tax assets of $15.8 million as of December 31, 2011. There is no valuation allowance against our federal net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011 because we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we considered the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, tax planning strategies and estimated future taxable income based on management prepared forecasts. This process required significant judgment by management about matters that are by nature uncertain. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect our profitability. A number of banking institutions in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share of loans or deposits. In addition, our asset management division competes with numerous brokerage firms and mutual fund companies which are also much larger. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage. This competition may limit or reduce our profitability, reduce our growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Inability to retain senior management and key employees or to attract new experienced financial services professionals could impair our relationship with our customers, reduce growth and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the Nashville market. We have also been able to attract experienced financial services professionals who have been able to attract customers from other financial institutions. Inability to retain these key personnel could negatively impact our growth and future growth because of their skills, customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. The limitations on bonuses, retention awards, severance payments and incentive compensation contained in ARRA may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees. For so long as any equity securities that we issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP remain outstanding, ARRA severely restricts bonuses, retention awards, severance payments and other incentive compensation payable to our most highly compensated employees including our senior executive officers. It is possible that we may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits us to retain such officers or other key employees or recruit additional employees, especially if we are competing against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. Regulatory approval may be required in order to add or replace certain executive officers. Our key employees are not subject to post-termination non-competition or non-solicitation agreements. Failure to retain our key employees could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. We are from time to time subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. The outcome of these cases is uncertain. However, during the current credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Page 23 Table of Contents We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In order to maintain our or Pinnacle National’s capital at desired or regulatory-required levels or to replace existing capital such as our preferred stock, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute stockholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions, which would also dilute stockholder ownership. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market’s Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which stockholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If a change in control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Provisions in our corporate documents, as well as certain federal and state regulations, may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our board of directors opposes. As a result, our stockholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of our stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter also will make it more difficult for an outside stockholder to remove our current board of directors or management. Holders of Pinnacle Financial’s bank indebtedness and junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of Pinnacle Financial’s stockholders. Pinnacle Financial has supported its continued growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2011, Pinnacle Financial had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $82.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by Pinnacle Financial. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures Pinnacle Financial issued to the trusts are senior to Pinnacle Financial’s shares of common stock and preferred stock. As a result, Pinnacle Financial must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on its preferred stock, or common stock and, in the event of Pinnacle Financial’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial’s common stock and preferred stock. Pinnacle Financial has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock or preferred stock. If our financial condition deteriorates or if we do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may be required to cease paying dividends on our preferred stock and to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. We have made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create additional efficiencies in our operations through the use of technology. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Page 24 Table of Contents We are subject to various statutes and regulations that may impose additional costs or limit our ability to take certain actions. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged on loans, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements established by our regulators, which require us to maintain specified levels of capital. Recent bank and thrift closures have depleted the Deposit Insurance Fund, and we were assessed a special assessment in the second quarter of 2009 and were required to prepay our risk based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 in the fourth quarter of 2009. It is possible that our assessments may increase in the future. Any future assessment increases could negatively impact our results of operations. Significant changes in laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry have been recently adopted and others are being considered in Congress. We cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 