ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. Except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Company We have not generated any product revenue to date, have a history of operating losses and our capital resources are limited. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We are focused on product development and we have not generated any revenue from commercial sales of our products to date. We have incurred losses each year of our operations. In 2007, we had a net loss available to holders of common stock of $56.0 million. At December 31, 2007 we had an accumulated deficit of $334.9 million. We expect our research and development, general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses will increase over the next several years. 26 We expect to continue to incur losses and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. We also anticipate cash outflow from debt repayment and payment of other obligations, including dividends payable on our outstanding shares of 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. Based on our operating plans, we will, before the end of the second quarter of 2008, require significant additional capital to fund our operations, including developing products, conducting clinical trials, achieving regulatory approvals, qualifying commercial manufacturing space and, subject to regulatory approval, commercially launching Imagify, or other product candidates under development or future product candidates. We may raise this additional capital through public or private sales of equity, or from borrowings, or from strategic partners. As a result of our limited capital resources, we may elect to delay the funding of certain development activities, including those leading to the submission of our NDA for Imagify, which would result in a delay in the commercialization of Imagify. Any such delay in the submission of an NDA or commercialization of Imagify would have a material adverse impact on our business and would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. To address our capital needs, we may elect to raise funds through public or private sales of equity or from borrowings or from strategic partners. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate our business; and strategic partnerships, if available, may result in royalties or other terms which reduce our economic potential from products under development. In addition, third parties may attempt to acquire us at valuations our board of directors or stockholders may not find attractive. Since our present capital resources are not sufficient to fund our planned operations for a twelve month period as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our current financial resources raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that we can obtain additional funding on reasonable terms, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stock price may decline, our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to limitations on our operations and such debt may have rights senior to the debentures, if issued. If we cannot obtain adequate funds, we may: •terminate or delay clinical trials for one or more of our product candidates; •delay our establishment of sales, marketing and/or manufacturing capabilities; •curtail significant product development programs that are designed to identify new product candidates; •relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates; •terminate or delay qualification of our commercial manufacturing facility; and/or •terminate or delay development of one or more of our product candidates, including Imagify, and discontinue operations of all or a portion of our operations. We need to allocate significant amounts of our available capital resources to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and equipment lease obligations, our patent transfer agreement with Bayer Schering Pharma AG, our patent license agreement with GE and as dividends on our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock, which in turn could reduce our financial flexibility and ability to fund other activities. As of March 3, 2008, we had approximately $16.0 million in aggregate principal indebtedness outstanding related to capital lease obligations, notes payable, and other long-term obligations. As of March 3, 2008, we had outstanding 650,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred 27 stock, which shares accrue cumulative cash dividends at the annual rate of $3.25 per share, payable quarterly on the first day of March, June, September, and December. These payments will: •reduce the availability of our capital to fund our clinical trials for Imagify, the qualification of our commercial manufacturing space in Tewksbury, Massachusetts and for working capital and other general corporate purposes and may require us, in order to meet these obligations, to delay or reduce expenditures or forego business opportunities; and •potentially impair our ability to obtain additional financing. To address our capital needs, we may elect to raise funds through public or private sales of equity or from borrowings or from strategic partners. Additional equity financing, if available, may be dilutive to our stockholders; debt financing, if available, may involve significant cash payment obligations and covenants that restrict our ability to operate as a business; and strategic partnerships, if available, may result in royalties or other terms which reduce our economic potential from products under development. Failure to obtain regulatory approvals for our product candidates under development, in particular our lead product candidate Imagify, for which we missed endpoints in each of our pivotal trials, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We must receive regulatory approval of each of our product candidates before we can commercialize or sell that product candidate. The pre-clinical laboratory testing, formulation development, manufacturing and clinical trials of any product candidates we develop independently or in collaboration with third parties, as well as the distribution and marketing of these product candidates, are regulated by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, principally FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. The development and regulatory approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, is uncertain and subject to delays, and could thus delay our receipt of revenues, if any, from any of our product candidates. The data obtained from clinical and pre-clinical activities are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. In particular, we can not assure you that our planned NDA for Imagify will be accepted by FDA nor can we assure you that our Imagify clinical results will successfully address FDA requirements sufficiently for us to obtain regulatory approval. No product can receive FDA approval unless human clinical trials show both safety and efficacy for each target indication in accordance with FDA standards. FDA analysis of results include both quantitative and qualitative analysis. In both our RAMP-1 and RAMP-2 clinical trial results, we achieved the principal primary endpoint of accuracy but failed to achieve one of the two component primary endpoints in each trial (sensitivity in RAMP-1 and specificity in RAMP-2). The FDA may look at these trials separately rather than in their totality and may not approve Imagify based upon these missed endpoints. We cannot predict whether FDA will approve Imagify based upon the available results or whether FDA will seek additional data as a condition to approval or whether they will approve Imagify at all. Our RAMP-1 and RAMP-2 clinical trial results are based upon our statistical analysis plans for those trials. These statistical analysis plans, including calculations of statistical significance, were created based on a variety of factors, including feedback from our discussions with FDA, the input of our regulatory consultants and our own knowledge and past experience in these and similar matters. We anticipate that the FDA will evaluate the quality and independence of the manner in which our Imagify clinical trials were conducted. In recent years, other companies seeking approval for their contrast agents have encountered difficulties convincing FDA that the comparative or truth standards that they used in their clinical trials met acceptable levels of quality, consistency or other standards acceptable to the FDA. In such cases, these issues were reported to be contributing factors in the failure of such 28 product candidates to be approved. If the FDA, upon review, has concern about the manner in which our RAMP-1 or RAMP-2 trials were conducted, or has concerns about the results of the nuclear stress tests or coronary angiography used as a comparator and truth standard in these trials, this could delay or prevent FDA approval of Imagify based upon our current trial results. There can be no assurance that FDA will accept our statistical analysis without modification. How, when, or if such matters are resolved may affect whether Imagify is approved for the indication that we are seeking, the timing of such approval, or whether Imagify is approved at all. In addition, in conjunction with approving products, it is common for regulatory agencies to impose limits on how such products can be used and marketed. We anticipate that if and when Imagify and other product candidates are approved that the initial use and marketing of these products may be limited at least until such time as we conduct additional clinical studies or information otherwise becomes available to address the underlying reasons for such limitations. We may encounter delays or rejections based on changes in regulatory agency policies or personnel during the period in which we develop a drug or the period required for review of any application for regulatory agency approval of a particular compound. Our continuing efforts to comply with these changes could lead to delays or rejections of our clinical trials. We also may encounter delays in the event we are unable to produce clinical trial material in sufficient quantities and of sufficient quality to meet the schedule for our planned clinical trials. In addition, we rely on a number of third parties, such as clinical research organizations, to help support the clinical trials by performing independent clinical monitoring, data acquisition and data evaluations. Any failure on the part of these third parties could delay the regulatory approval process. Failure to obtain regulatory approval or any delay or setback in obtaining regulatory agency approvals could: •adversely affect our ability to market any drugs we develop independently or with collaborative partners; •impose additional costs and diminish any competitive advantages that we may attain; or •adversely affect our ability to generate royalties. Failure to obtain approval for our lead product candidate, Imagify, or delay in such approval, would delay our receipt of product revenues and would have a material adverse affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price would also be materially adversely affected. Adverse events are likely to be encountered in our clinical trials and these events could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Many of the patients in our Imagify clinical trials have coronary artery disease. As part of our Imagify clinical trials, patients are exposed to potential safety risks associated with a stress test, including risks associated with a pharmacological stressor, and Imagify. Given the nature of the Imagify clinical trials, including the cumulative administration of Imagify to larger numbers of at-risk patients and administering Imagify to patients with coexisting disease, adverse events are expected to be encountered during any future clinical trials. Adverse events are also likely to be encountered in clinical trials for our other products, which clinical trials may also include at-risk patients. When significant adverse events are detected and these events are attributable to our products, such events could delay, limit or prevent regulatory agency approval. 29 FDA has required warning labels be added to product labeling for certain contrast agents as a result of serious adverse events and, if approved, our Imagify product candidate may require similar labeling. FDA is investigating reports of deaths and heart problems in patients treated with contrast agents and as a result, has required warning labels to be added to product labeling for certain ultrasound contrast agents which are approved for use in clinically unstable and acutely ill patients. These FDA-approved agents, Optison, marketed by GE Healthcare and Definity, marketed by Avista, are injected into patients prior to a cardiac ultrasound to improve visibility of the image. While we believe that Imagify is structurally different from these commercially-available ultrasound contrast agents, we cannot assure you that, if approved, Imagify will not be required to carry a similar warning. As a result, the potential market size may be significantly smaller. Our collaborative partners may not obtain regulatory approvals in other countries, which may have an adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain that we or our partners will obtain any regulatory approvals in other countries and the failure to obtain these approvals would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to market our products outside of the United States, we and our current, and potential future, collaborative partners must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. The approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval detailed above. Approval by FDA does not ensure approval by the regulatory authorities of other countries. In addition, many countries outside the United States require a separate review process prior to marketing to determine whether their national health insurance schemes will pay for newly approved products, as well as the price which may be charged for a product. We may need to enroll more patients in future clinical trials, and any such additional enrollment would require additional expenditures, which may be material, and would likely result in a delay of our submitting an NDA with the FDA for Imagify. If discussions with FDA lead us to conclude that further clinical trials of Imagify are required to achieve NDA approval, such trials may affect the timing of an NDA submission or ultimate approval and we would incur significant additional costs. We cannot assure that the performance of additional trials would lead ultimately to NDA approval. Moreover, we currently do not possess sufficient inventory of Imagify to conduct any such trial, and would need to contract for the manufacture of such material. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantity of such material in a timely fashion or on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our inability to conduct additional clinical trials for Imagify in a timely fashion, or at all, resulting from of our inability to manufacture or obtain clinical trial materials would have material adverse effect on our business. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may be unable to complete planned clinical trials, obtain regulatory approvals or commercialize our product candidates. We will require substantial future capital in order to continue to conduct the research and development, clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our product candidates to market and to establish commercial manufacturing, marketing and sales capabilities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the: •progress of pre-clinical development and laboratory testing and clinical trials; •timing of construction and size to which we expand our manufacturing capabilities; 30 •time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; •number of product candidates we pursue; •costs involved in filing and prosecuting patent applications and enforcing or defending patent claims; and •establishment of selected strategic alliances and activities required for product commercialization. We may seek additional funding through strategic collaborations or through private or public sales of our securities or by licensing all or a portion of our technology. This funding may significantly dilute existing stockholders or may limit our rights to our technology. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price could also be materially adversely affected. Our products, if approved, may fail to achieve market acceptance. There can be no assurance that any products we successfully develop, if approved for marketing, will achieve market acceptance or generate significant revenues. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures, and hospitals, physicians or patients may conclude that these products are less safe or effective or otherwise less attractive than these existing therapies or procedures. For example, our lead product candidate, Imagify, is a cardiovascular drug for use in ultrasound imaging procedures which will compete with existing nuclear imaging and cardiac ultrasound. Hospitals, physicians or patients may prefer these existing procedures to Imagify perfusion stress ultrasound imaging. If our products do not receive market acceptance for any reason, it would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such event, we may elect to conduct additional clinical trials designed to demonstrate the effectiveness of Imagify in circumstances not studied in our Phase 3 clinical trials. Any such studies will likely be expensive and time consuming. Further, our competitors may develop new technologies or products that are more effective or less costly, or that seem more cost-effective, than our products. We can give no assurance that hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general will accept and use any products that we may develop. We have never manufactured any of our product candidates in commercial quantities, and if we fail to develop an effective manufacturing capability for our products, including our lead product candidate Imagify, we may be unable to commercialize these products. We have no experience in manufacturing our products for commercial use and limited experience in designing equipment for the manufacture of our products. We are working to start-up and qualify operations at a commercial manufacturing facility in Tewksbury, Massachusetts and to demonstrate that we can produce Imagify at a commercial manufacturing scale prior to our filing of a NDA for Imagify and, subject to required regulatory approvals, we intend to manufacture Imagify in this facility for commercial use. We can not assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for such commercial manufacture, at all or in a timely or economical manner. Our intention to manufacture Imagify or other products exposes us to the following risks, any of which could delay or prevent the approval of our products by FDA or corresponding state and foreign agencies, or the commercialization of our products, or result in higher costs or inability to meet demand for Imagify leading to potential revenue loss, and any of which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. •Manufacturers are obliged to manufacture in highly controlled environments and to operate in accordance with FDA and international mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. For our clinical trials we have relied on contract manufacturers for such facilities and 31 cGMP compliance. Creation and qualification of a commercial manufacturing environment requires significant expertise and capital resources, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls and is subject to local and state planning approvals. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in constructing and qualifying new manufacturing facilities and in production, especially in scaling-up initial production. A failure to establish and follow cGMPs and to document adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for our NDA filing or commercial production for Imagify and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products or the ability to continue to manufacture the products. Certain of these delays would further require us to continue to operate this facility and incur related costs. •Manufacture of our product candidates, in preparation for filing a NDA and for commercial production, will each initially require and rely on a single commercial manufacturing site, directly or through a contract manufacturer, without the backup of a second site that is qualified for commercial manufacture of the product. Qualification of another manufacturing site can be expensive and time consuming. Prior to using product from a new manufacturing site, we must demonstrate to FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies that the specifications for the product are consistent with the specifications for the product as it was manufactured at a prior qualified site or we must clinically or otherwise demonstrate that the safety and efficacy of the product produced in the new manufacturing site is consistent with the product as it was manufactured at the prior site. Demonstrating such consistency may be difficult, expensive or time consuming. In addition, before we would be able to produce product for commercial use at a new facility, it will have to undergo a pre-approval inspection by FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies. Once approved, drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. Failure to maintain compliance with cGMP or with safety or environmental regulations could result in penalties, product recalls or restrictions on the use of the manufacturing site. We have a single manufacturing facility. This facility and the manufacturing equipment we use to produce Imagify would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace in the event of a regulatory, manufacturing, catastrophic event or similar problem. In such event, we would be forced to rely on third-party manufacturers and there would likely be substantial delay before we would be able to restart production. Although we possess insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses, including potential damage to our reputation, and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, future growth may outpace our manufacturing capacity, in which event we would need to locate, obtain and build-out additional space. New or alternative facilities may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Even if we are able to identify such new or alternative facilities, we may incur additional costs and we may experience a disruption in the supply of our products until those facilities are available. Failure to manufacture our products in commercial quantities or at commercially reasonable rates could damage our European partnership. Under the terms of our collaboration agreement with Nycomed, we are responsible for the commercial manufacture of Imagify for marketing and sale by Nycomed in Europe. Failure to manufacture Imagify in a timely manner or on an economic basis, or in sufficient quantities, could jeopardize our relationship with Nycomed. We do not currently have a European sales force, nor do we have experience with regard to the commercialization, marketing, sale or distribution of pharmaceutical products in Europe, and we rely entirely on Nycomed for this expertise. Any termination of our 32 relationship with Nycomed would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to manufacture our products in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from marketing our products. To date our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities for pre-clinical and clinical trials. If any of these product candidates are approved by FDA or foreign regulatory authorities for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture them in larger quantities. For Imagify, it is our intention to seek regulatory approval after we have demonstrated that we can manufacture Imagify at a larger batch scale than is being used for clinical trial materials. Manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance. Accordingly, we might not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet our clinical schedules or to commercialize our products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity or manufacture at a larger batch scale, whether on our own or in collaboration with third party manufacturers, for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. Significant scale-up of manufacturing may require certain additional validation studies, which FDA must review and approve. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply of that product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality manufacturing. Our failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including controlling the incidence of manufacturing errors and maintaining reliable product packaging for diverse environmental conditions, could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. Our commercial manufacturing facility in Tewksbury, Massachusetts is designed to meet our estimated initial commercial demand for Imagify. The facility is being initially equipped to run one production line. In order to support greater production capacity, this production line is designed to support a larger lyophilizer (pharmaceutical freeze dryer which can be operated under sterile conditions) in addition to the one that has been initially installed. Purchasing, installing and qualifying manufacturing equipment, such as a lyophilizer, typically requires significant lead times and temporary discontinuation of production. Also in the future we may need to add additional production lines at the Tewksbury site or elsewhere to meet potential commercial demand for Imagify. We have made no commitment to such additions at this time. The cost of such additions can be significant. There can be no assurance that our capacity estimates will be achieved. Any such additions would increase our operating spending, increase our capital requirements and reduce our resources available for development activities. We have removed our Imagify manufacturing equipment from the facilities of our third party contract manufacturer and currently have no facility within which to manufacture Imagify until the new commercial manufacturing facility is qualified or until other arrangements are made. We have removed our Imagify manufacturing equipment from the facilities of a third-party contract manufacturer. Currently, we have no facility within which to manufacture Imagify until the new commercial manufacturing facility is qualified or until other arrangements are made. We have no existing inventory of Imagify on-hand and would need to produce, or contract with a third party for the production of additional material for future clinical trials. If we are not able to secure sufficient inventory of Imagify clinical trial material to perform clinical trials, our program could be adversely impacted or delayed. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 If third-party manufacturers of our products candidates fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our concerns, or if their performance is substandard, our clinical trials may be delayed and our costs may rise. We may rely substantially on third-party contract manufacturers to supply, store and distribute our product candidates for our clinical trials and other development needs. Our reliance on these third-party manufacturers will expose us to the following risks, any of which could delay or prevent the completion of our clinical trials, the approval of our products by FDA, or the commercialization of our products, result in higher costs, or deprive us of additional product candidates, and any of such effects would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. •Contract manufacturers often encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Accordingly, a manufacturer might not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of drugs to meet our clinical schedules. •Contract manufacturers are obliged to operate in accordance with FDA-mandated current good manufacturing practices, or cGMPs. A failure of these contract manufacturers to establish and follow cGMPs and to document their adherence to such practices may lead to significant delays in the availability of material for clinical study and may delay or prevent filing or approval of marketing applications for our products. •For production of clinical trial material for each of our current product candidates we will initially rely on a single manufacturer. Changing these or future manufacturers may be difficult and the number of potential manufacturers is limited. Changing manufacturers may require re-validation of the manufacturing processes and procedures in accordance with FDA-mandated cGMPs. Such re-validation may be costly and time-consuming. It may be difficult or impossible for us to find replacement manufacturers on acceptable terms quickly, or at all. •Our contract manufacturers may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to produce, store and distribute our products successfully. Our manufacturing levels, while important to us, can represent relatively small fractions of the overall business of most qualified contract manufacturers. As a result, the contract manufacturers may not provide us with the attention that we need or may be unwilling to adapt to necessary changes in our manufacturing requirements. Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies to ensure strict compliance with cGMPs, other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. While we are obligated to audit the performance of third party contractors, we do not have control over our third-party manufacturers' compliance with these regulations and standards. Failure by our third-party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of the government to grant market approval of drugs, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. Materials necessary to manufacture our products may not be available, which may delay our development and commercialization activities. Only a few facilities manufacture some of the raw materials necessary to manufacture our products. If we need to purchase a raw material that is in limited supply for our clinical trials, or for commercial distribution if we obtain marketing approval of a product candidate, we cannot assure you that one or more suppliers would be able to sell us that raw material at the time we need it and on commercially reasonable terms. If we change suppliers for any of these materials or any of our suppliers experiences a shutdown or disruption in the facilities used to produce these materials, due to 34 technical, regulatory or other problems, it could harm our ability to manufacture our products or receive regulatory approval. We have no experience selling, marketing or distributing our products and no internal capability to do so. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sale of any product, we will face competition with respect to commercial sales, marketing and distribution. These are areas in which we have no experience. To market any of our products directly, we must develop a direct marketing and sales force with technical expertise and supporting distribution capability. Alternatively, we may engage a pharmaceutical or other healthcare company with an existing distribution system and direct sales force to assist us. There can be no assurance that we will successfully establish sales and distribution capabilities either on our own or in collaboration with third parties or gain market acceptance for our products. To the extent we have or will enter co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend on the efforts of third parties and there can be no assurance that our efforts will succeed. Our potential product trade names may not be acceptable to FDA. FDA reserves the right to approve product names prior to commercialization. We have proposed to FDA the tradename Imagify, as well as an alternative tradename, as a potential product trade name for our lead product. FDA has raised concerns regarding the name Imagify which, if not resolved, could cause us to use the alternative name which FDA finds acceptable. Trade names changes could result in additional cost to us and could adversely affect our preparations for commercialization of this product which could, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims by other parties that we infringe or have misappropriated their proprietary technology may result in liability for damages, royalties, or other payments, or stop our development and commercialization efforts. Competitors and other third parties may initiate patent litigation against us in the United States or in foreign countries based on existing patents or patents that may be granted in the future. Many of our competitors have obtained patents covering products and processes generally related to our products and processes, and they may assert these patents against us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that these competitors have not sought or will not seek additional patents that may cover aspects of our technology. As a result, there is a greater likelihood of a patent dispute than would be expected if our competitors were pursuing unrelated technologies. While we conduct patent searches to determine whether the technologies used in our products infringe patents held by third parties, numerous patent applications are currently pending and may be filed in the future for technologies generally related to our technologies, including many patent applications that remain confidential after filing. Due to these factors and the inherent uncertainty in conducting patent searches, there can be no guarantee that we will not violate third-party patent rights that we have not yet identified. We know of U.S. and foreign patents issued to third parties that relate to aspects of our product candidates. There may also be patent applications filed by these or other parties in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions that relate to some aspects of our product candidates, which, if issued, could subject us to infringement actions. In particular, we are aware of U.S. and foreign patents owned by third parties, including potential competitors, which arguably cover aspects of our Imagify contrast agent. We and several of these parties have been actively engaged in opposing the grant of European patents with claims that arguably cover aspects of our Imagify product. Parties may contest patents in Europe prior to contesting the counterpart patents in the United States because of procedural differences between European and U.S. patent laws as well as economic considerations. 35 The owners or licensees of these and other patents may file one or more infringement actions against us. In addition, a competitor may claim misappropriation of a trade secret by an employee hired from that competitor. Any such infringement or misappropriation action could cause us to incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit and could distract our management from our business, even if the allegations of infringement or misappropriation are unwarranted. A need to defend multiple actions or claims could have a disproportionately greater impact. In addition, either in response to or in anticipation of any such infringement or misappropriation claim, we may enter into commercial agreements with the owners or licensees of these rights. The terms of these commercial agreements may include substantial payments, including substantial royalty payments on revenues received by us in connection with the commercialization of our products. Payments under such agreements could increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. Furthermore, a party making this type of claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages, which would increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from making, using, selling, offering for sale or importing our products or prevent our customers from using our products. If a court determined or if we independently concluded that any of our products or manufacturing processes violated third-party proprietary rights, our clinical trials could be delayed and there can be no assurance that we would be able to reengineer the product or processes to avoid those rights, or to obtain a license under those rights on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may develop and market products with similar features that may reduce demand for our products, and we may be prevented from establishing collaborative relationships on favorable terms. The following factors are important to our success: •receiving patent protection for our product candidates; •maintaining our trade secrets; •not infringing on the proprietary rights of others; and •preventing others from infringing our proprietary rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary rights are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. We try to protect our proprietary position by filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. Because the patent position of pharmaceutical companies involves complex legal and factual questions, the issuance, scope and enforceability of patents cannot be predicted with certainty. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide any protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, they may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate any technology that we have developed. The laws of many foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our confidential information or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any trade secret, 36 know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may become involved in lawsuits and administrative proceedings to protect, defend or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties in the United States or in foreign countries. In addition, we have been and continue to be subject to certain opposition proceedings conducted in patent and trademark offices challenging the validity of our patents and may become involved in future opposition proceedings. The defense of intellectual property rights, including patent rights through lawsuits, interference or opposition proceedings, and other legal and administrative proceedings can be costly and can divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. Such costs increase our operating losses and reduce our resources available for development activities. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation and despite protective orders entered by the court, confidential information may be inadvertently disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. This disclosure could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. If we are unable to retain key personnel and hire additional qualified scientific, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and other personnel, we may not be able to successfully achieve our goals. We depend on the principal members of our scientific and management staff. The loss of these principal members' services might significantly delay or prevent the achievement of research, development or business objectives and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of these principal members, except for the CEO. We have entered into executive employment agreements, as amended, with key members of the management team that provide for compensation and other benefits in the event these persons are terminated other than for cause, including in connection with a "change of control" of Acusphere, or if they terminate their employment for good reason. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel such as these individuals. We face intense competition for such personnel and consultants. We cannot assure you that we will attract and retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future. Further, we expect that our potential expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise, such as further clinical trials, governmental approvals, commercial manufacturing and marketing, will place additional requirements on our management, operational and financial resources. We expect these demands will require an increase in management and scientific personnel and the development of additional expertise by existing management personnel. The failure to attract and retain such personnel or to develop such expertise could materially adversely affect prospects for our success. We will establish collaborative relationships, and those relationships may expose us to a number of risks. We will rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies for our manufacturing, research funding, clinical development and/or sales and 37 marketing performance. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the following: •we cannot effectively control whether our corporate partners will devote sufficient resources to our programs or product candidates; •disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with collaborators; •disagreements with collaborators could delay or terminate the research and development, regulatory approval or commercialization of product candidates, or result in litigation or arbitration; •corporate partners may have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional product candidates and may pursue technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; and •collaborators with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our product candidates than they do to product candidates of their own development. In July 2004, we entered into a collaboration, license and supply agreement with Nycomed in which we granted Nycomed rights to develop and market Imagify in Europe. There can be no assurance that the regulatory goals, sales targets and other objectives of this agreement will be achieved. Failure to achieve these goals, targets and objectives would result in our inability to receive license, milestone, royalty and other payments under this agreement, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations including, under certain conditions, reduction of royalty rates, delays in regulatory approvals and product sales, penalties and termination of the agreement. Under certain provisions of this collaboration agreement, if we fail in any material respect to use all commercially reasonable efforts to carry out referenced obligations under the agreement, we would be obligated to pay Nycomed liquidated damages of up to $12 million. Although we plan to carry out all of these obligations, which we believe are in our control, there can be no assurance that termination of this agreement will not occur or that such termination would not result in us incurring liquidated damages of up to $12 million. Given these risks, our current and future collaborative efforts may not be successful. Failure of these efforts could delay our product development or impair commercialization of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry is intense, and if we fail to compete effectively our financial results will suffer. We engage in a business characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid developments and intense competition. We cannot assure you that our products will compete successfully or that research and development by others will not render our products obsolete or uneconomical. Our failure to compete effectively would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We expect that successful competition will depend, among other things, on product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, timing and scope of regulatory approval and price. Specifically, we expect important factors will include the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the clinical, development and laboratory testing and regulatory approval processes and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. We expect competition to increase as technological advances are made and commercial applications broaden. In commercializing our initial product candidates and any additional products we develop using our HDDS and PDDS technologies, we will face substantial competition from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions. 38 •Imagify, our cardiovascular drug and lead product candidate, if approved for marketing and sale, will compete with nuclear stress tests, the current standard of care in myocardial perfusion imaging. Nuclear imaging agents that are approved for use in myocardial perfusion imaging include products marketed by GE Healthcare and Avista. In 2005, the reimbursement rate of a nuclear stress test was approximately $800 per procedure. In addition, GE Healthcare and Avista have developed and marketed ultrasound contrast agents that have been used for Left Ventricular Opacification, or LVO, and Endocardial Border Delineation, or EBD, in patients with suboptimal images. No ultrasound contrast agent has been approved by FDA for use in myocardial perfusion imaging using cardiac stress ultrasound. However, we are aware of other companies that are or may be developing ultrasound imaging agents for use in cardiac stress ultrasound. CardioSphere, which is being developed by Point Biomedical Corporation, is a cardiac stress ultrasound imaging agent for the assessment of myocardial perfusion. It is our understanding that Point Biomedical Corporation is conducting clinical trials in order to potentially gain regulatory approval for CardioSphere. In addition, some companies have ultrasound contrast agents that are FDA approved for resting cardiac ultrasound evaluation of LVO and EBD in patients with suboptimal images or are in development. In the future, these companies may seek to broaden their indications to include myocardial perfusion assessment with cardiac stress ultrasound. These FDA-approved agents include Optison, which is marketed by GE Healthcare and Definity, which is marketed by Avista. SonoVue is an ultrasound contrast agent marketed in Europe by Bracco for LVO, EBD and radiology applications. •AI-850 (our reformulation of paclitaxel) or a reformulation of AI-850, if approved for marketing and sale, will also face intense competition. We are aware of companies, such as Abraxis Bioscience (formerly American Pharmaceutical Partners), NeoPharm and Sonus Pharmaceuticals that are applying significant resources and expertise to developing reformulations of paclitaxel for intravenous delivery. In early 2005, Abraxis Bioscience received FDA approval for and is marketing their product. None of these other reformulations has received approval from FDA. Other companies, such as Cell Therapeutics, are developing new chemical entities that involve paclitaxel conjugated, or chemically bound, to another chemical. None of these new chemical entities have received final approval from FDA. In addition, a number of companies have developed technology for delivering hydrophobic drugs. Cardinal Health, CyDex and Elan have created formulations of hydrophobic drugs that have been approved by FDA. 39 •AI-128, our initial sustained release formulation of an inhaled asthma drug, if approved for marketing and sale, will also face intense competition. Companies such as Alkermes possess technology that may be suitable for sustained release pulmonary drug delivery and may have competitive programs that have not been publicly announced or may decide to begin such programs in the future. We are not aware of any other company currently in human clinical development of a sustained release version of the asthma drug that is currently the subject of our research and development efforts. In addition, many asthma drugs are marketed by large pharmaceutical companies with much greater resources than us. These companies may be developing sustained release versions of their asthma drugs that would compete with our sustained release product candidate. Relative to us, most of our competitors have substantially greater capital resources, research and development staffs, facilities and experience in conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals, as well as in manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. Many of our competitors may achieve product commercialization or patent protection earlier than we will. Furthermore, we believe that some of our competitors have used, and may continue to use, litigation to gain a competitive advantage. Finally, our competitors may use different technologies or approaches to the development of products similar to the products we are seeking to develop. We expect to develop international operations that will expose us to additional business risks. We expect, whether directly or through collaborative relationships, to develop operations outside the United States in order to market and distribute our products. Regardless of the extent to which we seek to develop these operations ourselves or in collaboration with others, we cannot be sure that our international efforts will be successful. Any expansion into international markets will require additional resources and management attention and will subject us to new business risks. These risks could lower the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operating results. Among the risks we believe are most likely to affect any international operations are: •different regulatory requirements for approval of our product candidates; •dependence on local distributors; •longer payment cycles and problems in collecting accounts receivable; •adverse changes in trade and tax regulations; •the absence or significant lack of legal protection for intellectual property rights; •political and economic instability; and •currency risks. Risks Related to Our Industry Even if we obtain marketing approval, our products will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. As to products for which marketing approval is obtained, the manufacturer of the product and the manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping related to the product will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or the 40 manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. We may be slow to adapt, or we may never adapt, to changes in existing requirements or adoption of new requirements or policies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Market acceptance of our products will be limited if users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement for products like our product candidates, and our commercial success will depend in part on these third-party payors agreeing to reimburse providers for the costs of our products. Even if we succeed in bringing any of our proposed products to market, we cannot assure you that third-party payors, in the United States, Europe and other markets that we may pursue, will consider our products cost-effective or provide reimbursement in whole or in part for their use or agree to the proposed price. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Each of our product candidates is intended to replace or alter existing therapies or procedures. These third-party payors may conclude that our products are less safe, effective or cost-effective than these existing therapies or procedures. Therefore, third-party payors may not approve our products for reimbursement. If third-party payors do not approve our products for reimbursement or fail to reimburse them adequately, sales will suffer as some physicians or their patients will opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement or is adequately reimbursed. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, these payors' reimbursement policies may adversely affect the ability of us and our potential collaborators to sell our products on a profitable basis. Moreover, the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, the growth of organizations such as health maintenance organizations, and legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs could significantly influence the purchase of healthcare services and products, resulting in lower prices and reduced demand for our products which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legislation and regulations affecting the pricing of pharmaceuticals may change in ways adverse to us before or after FDA or other regulatory agencies approve any of our proposed products for marketing. While we cannot predict the likelihood of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals, if any government or regulatory agencies adopt these proposals they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages in connection with the alleged or actual harm caused by our products or product candidates. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others. This risk exists in clinical trials as well as in commercial distribution. In addition, the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in general have been subject to significant medical malpractice litigation. We may incur significant liability if product liability or malpractice lawsuits against us are successful. Furthermore, product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, or adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that this coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms. 41 Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete. Pharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change. We expect that pharmaceutical technologies will continue to develop rapidly. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products involve the use of hazardous materials, and as a result we are exposed to potential liability claims and to costs associated with complying with laws regulating hazardous waste. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials. We believe that our procedures for handling hazardous materials comply with federal and state regulations. However, there can be no assurance that accidental injury or contamination from these materials will not occur. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages, which could exceed our available financial resources. This liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products, and we spent approximately $15,211 during the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 to dispose of these hazardous materials and waste products. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with respect to pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks. An active public market for our common stock may not continue to develop or be sustained. The volatility of pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks and the level of trading in such stocks do not always relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by such stocks. Factors that could cause this volatility in the market price of our common stock include: •announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; •announcements of clinical trial results; •market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; •rumors relating to us or our competitors; •litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; •our quarterly operating results; •deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; •sales by us of additional shares of our common or preferred stock; and •FDA or international regulatory actions. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate in response to the exercise by us of rights under the terms of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. For example, we may elect to automatically convert the preferred stock if our common stock price has exceeded 150% of the 42 conversion price of the preferred stock for at least 20 trading days during a 30-day trading period ending within five trading days prior to the notice of automatic conversion. There is a risk of fluctuation in the price of our common stock between the time when we may first elect to automatically convert the preferred stock and the automatic conversion date. These fluctuations may adversely affect the value of our common stock. If shares under our universal shelf registration statement are issued, then the price of our securities may be negatively affected. We have on file with the SEC a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-134263) and a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-123854), which provide for the offer, from time to time, of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants up to an aggregate remaining availability of approximately $33.5 million and $27.3 million, respectively, net of financing amounts previously executed under these registration statements. The SEC declared the shelf registration statements effective on August 18, 2006 and April 15, 2005, respectively. Effective April 15, 2008, the first of these registration statements will expire and no longer be available to us for the sale of securities in a public offering. In addition, new rules recently adopted by the SEC currently limit our ability to utilize a shelf registration statement to no more than one-third of our unaffiliated public float over any twelve month period. Subject to these limitations, market conditions and our capital needs, and to the extent and so long as we are then eligible to use the registration statements under SEC rules, we may again seek to use any remaining availability under the shelf registration statements by making an offering of securities covered for sale under the registration statements. In addition, we may amend our shelf registration statements or file a new shelf registration statement to increase our potential access to capital. The addition of these securities into the market may be dilutive to existing stockholders and have an adverse effect on the price of our securities. Our significant equity holders may have conflicts of interests with us or you in the future. As of March 3, 2008, and based on information provided to us by such entities: the Endowment Capital Group LLC and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock; Bank of America Corporation and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock; Baupost Group LLC beneficially own approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock; Quaker Capital Management Corporation and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock; Deutche Bank AG and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock; and the Meditor Group Ltd. and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 5% of our outstanding common stock. Collectively these investors will control approximately 39 % of our outstanding common stock. These investors, particularly if they were to act together as a concentrated group, could exert influence over the election of our directors, direct our policies and operations, including future issuances of common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests, as a concentrated group, may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. This concentration of ownership among a small number of investors may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, thereby possibly depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of any sale or acquisition. 43 Our common stock is junior to our preferred stock with respect to the right to receive payments in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up of Acusphere. In February 2005, we issued and sold 900,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. As of March 3, 2008, 650,000 of these shares of preferred stock are outstanding. The preferred stock is senior to the common stock as to liquidation. In the event of our voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of Acusphere, holders of our preferred stock will receive a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $50 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends through the distribution date. Only after holders of the preferred stock have received their liquidation preference and any accrued and unpaid dividends will we distribute assets, if any are remaining, to our common stock holders. Acusphere could be the subject of securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. In the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have often instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. The market price of our common stock has been historically volatile and may remain volatile. Such volatility in our stock price could result in shareholder litigation against us. If any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. The lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of March 3, 2008, we have approximately 46,611,042 shares of common stock outstanding and 650,000 shares of convertible preferred stock outstanding that are convertible into approximately 4.7 million shares of our common stock, plus up to a maximum of approximately 0.4 million additional shares of our common stock issuable at our option in satisfaction of the maximum dividend make-whole payment on these shares of preferred stock. All of the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our preferred stock will be freely tradable without restriction under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our affiliates. The terms of our outstanding shares of preferred stock may restrict our ability to raise additional capital or hamper or prevent an acquisition of us. In February 2005, we issued and sold 900,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. As of March 3, 2008, 650,000 of these shares of preferred stock are outstanding. In the event of our voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of Acusphere, holders of our preferred stock will receive a liquidation preference in an amount equal to $50 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends through the distribution date. Only after holders of the preferred stock have received their liquidation preference and any accrued and unpaid dividends will we distribute assets, if any are remaining, to our common stock holders. Without the vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of preferred stock, we can not authorize or sell any equity security that ranks senior to the preferred stock as to dividends or distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Acusphere. As a result of this liquidation preference, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of common stock or junior preferred stock on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, without the vote or consent of the holders of at least a majority of the shares of preferred stock we may not effect a consolidation or merger with another entity unless the preferred stock that remains outstanding and its rights, privileges and preferences are unaffected or are converted 44 into or exchanged for preferred stock of the surviving entity having rights, preferences and limitations substantially similar, but no less favorable, to the convertible preferred stock. This provision could hamper a third party's acquisition of us or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us via a merger. Under some circumstances, the holders of our outstanding shares of preferred stock may be entitled to elect some of the directors of Acusphere. In February 2005 we issued and sold 900,000 shares of our 6.5% convertible exchangeable preferred stock. As of March 3, 2008, 650,000 of these shares of preferred stock are outstanding. Cumulative dividends accrue on our preferred stock at an annual rate of $3.25 per share, payable quarterly on the first day of March, June, September and December, commencing June 1, 2005. Any dividends must be declared by our board of directors and must come from funds that are legally available for dividend payments. In February 2008, our Board of Directors elected not to declare a quarterly cash dividend that was otherwise payable on March 1, 2008. This is the first quarterly dividend that has not been declared or paid on the preferred stock. If we have not paid dividends on the preferred stock in an aggregate amount equal to at least six quarterly dividends whether or not consecutive, we must increase the size of our board of directors by two additional directors. After this time, and for so long as these dividends remain due and unpaid, holders of the preferred stock, voting separately as a class with holders of preferred stock ranking on the same basis as to dividends having like voting rights, will be entitled to elect two additional directors at any meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected. These directors will be appointed to classes on the board as determined by our board of directors. These voting rights will terminate when we have declared and either paid or set aside for payment all accrued and unpaid dividends. The terms of office of all directors so elected will terminate immediately upon the termination of these voting rights. Provisions of Delaware law or our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of us, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of Delaware law or our charter or by-laws could hamper a third party's acquisition of us, or discourage a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Stockholders who wish to participate in these transactions may not have the opportunity to do so. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Further, these provisions make it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These provisions include: •a provision allowing us to issue preferred stock with rights senior to those of the common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of the common stock; •the existence of a staggered board of directors in which there are three classes of directors serving staggered three-year terms, thus expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors and potentially discouraging someone from making an acquisition proposal for us; •the by-laws' requirement that stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors; •the inability of stockholders to convene a stockholders' meeting without the chairperson of the board, the chief executive officer, the president or a majority of the board of directors first calling the meeting; and 45 •the application of Delaware law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after the 15% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet specified criteria. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date and, other than cash dividends paid on our preferred stock, we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our businesses. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying these dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. On January 10, 2008, the Company received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") advising that for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company's common stock had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to comply with this minimum bid price requirement or any other listing standards applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market. The delisting of our common stock would significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and would significantly negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 