Risk Factors This Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 20-F. We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 20-F, information contained in other filings with the SEC, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like “expects,” “anticipates” or “believes” to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in rapidly changing businesses, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. 4 Table of Contents RISK RELATED TO OUR COMPANY AND OUR INDUSTRY Telecommunications Business Reductions in telecommunications tariffs in India and in the prices that we charge for our communication services worldwide have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition Telecommunications tariffs in India have declined significantly in recent years. Peak international call tariffs have declined from Rs. 48 per minute in 2002 to Rs. 12 per minute in 2008 as a result of deregulation of tariffs and increased competition. The Department of Telecom (“DoT”) also relaxed the license conditions for international long distance (ILD) and national long distance (NLD) services and reduced the entry fee for these businesses from Rs. 250 million and Rs. 1 billion respectively to Rs. 25 million, effective January 1, 2006. Furthermore, effective April 1, 2007, the TRAI (Telecom Regulatory Authority of India) revised the access deficit charge (ADC—a component of the Interconnection Usage Charges or IUC, that makes up for below-cost monthly rentals and local call charges for fixed telephones) in preparation for finally phasing out the ADC. Wholesale voice revenues constituted 56.70% of the Company’s total revenue in 2008 compared to 61.70% of the Company’s total revenue in 2007. The decline in tariffs and the reduction of ADCs, while resulting in a traffic volume growth spurt, has materially and adversely affected the Company’s revenues and net income. Phasing out of ADC completely is likely to further impact the Company’s revenues and net income. In addition, we expect to continue to experience decreasing prices for our communications services: • as we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks; • as a result of our current agreements with customers which often contain volume-based pricing or other contractually agreed upon decreases in prices during the term of the agreement; • through technological advances or otherwise; and • as volume-based pricing traffic become more prevalent. Accordingly, our historical revenue is not indicative of future revenue based on comparable traffic volumes. As the prices for our communications services decrease for whatever reason, then unless there are volume increases or we are able to offer additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or otherwise reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline and our business and financial results will suffer. Increased industry capacity and other factors could lead to lower prices for our services Additional network capacity available from our competitors may cause significant decreases in the prices for the services that we offer. Prices may also decline due to capacity increases resulting from technological advances and strategic acquisitions. Increased competition has already led to a decline in rates charged for various telecommunications services. There is an increase in the number of players offering various forms of data products and this sector is witnessing increased competition and reduced tariffs. Although the Company has been a market leader in offering data products in India, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its market leader position and reduced tariffs will cause significant reduction in its revenues and thereby profits. As a result of delays in the implementation of the new Carrier Access Code regime in India, we continue to depend on other telecommunications providers for access to end customers All international calls we carry that either originate or terminate in India must pass through access telephone networks, which we do not own or control. Demand for our international outgoing telephony services will depend, to a significant degree, on the rates charged to end users in India, access to whom is controlled by competitors such as Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), Bharti, Vodafone and Reliance. With more and more access operators in India launching their own international long distance operations, the demand for the Company’s voice services is likely to be adversely affected leading to lower volumes, revenues and net margins. The Government of India’s proposed Carrier Access Code (“CAC”) regime offers end user customers the right to choose their NLD or ILD carrier, based on rates and quality, rather than such choice being made by the access provider. Implementation of the CAC 5 Table of Contents regime has been delayed due to technical and other issues. BSNL and MTNL currently control access to a majority of the end customers. Because of their “Most Favoured Customer” arrangement with the Company, they used the Company as their preferred ILD carrier until February 2004. Since February 2004, we have been dependent on the implementation of the CAC regime to develop our own customer base for the outgoing international telephony market. The TRAI has proposed that long distance operators can provide choice of carriers to consumers through calling cards. However the timeframe for implementation is still not clear. There can be no assurance that even if carrier selection is implemented, end user customers will choose the company as their preferred carrier. The Company’s revenues from BSNL and MTNL, two of our larger customers, have declined significantly in recent years and may continue to do so. After the termination of its International Long Distance (“ILD”) services monopoly and its “Most Favoured Customer” status in 2002 and February 2004 respectively, the Company has been competing with other ILD operators for BSNL and MTNL’s traffic. With increased competition for BSNL and MTNL voice traffic, the volume of their international traffic routed through the Company is likely to reduce or lead to lower rates for termination. Thus the amount of call traffic carried by the Company and the Company’s revenues and margins could be further adversely affected. Furthermore, BSNL has been granted operating licenses for international telephony services by the Government of India and has started ILD operations. In March 2004, the Company and BSNL signed an agreement pursuant to which BSNL may use our infrastructure to route its ILD traffic. BSNL commenced utilizing our infrastructure under this arrangement during fiscal year 2005. During fiscal year 2007, BSNL also started exchanging traffic with international carriers directly on its submarine cable (Bharat Lanka Cable) through Colombo. With BSNL routing most of its ILD traffic through its own Bharat Lanka Cable during fiscal year 2008, there can be no assurance that the infrastructure created by the Company will retain sufficient volumes or that the terms of the agreement will not be modified further to the Company’s detriment. During fiscal year 2008, our infrastructure sharing agreement with BSNL was renegotiated and is likely to result in lower revenues for the Company. We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network If we are unable to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and rights needed to expand and operate our network on our acceptable terms and on a timely basis, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights that are obtained could materially adversely affect us. Competition in the Indian telecommunications sector is expected to intensify, further affecting our business adversely The Indian telecommunications sector continues to be intensely competitive and we face competition in each of our lines of business. We expect further competition as existing and new operators expand their operations and services, there is more industry consolidation and we enter new businesses. Our competitors in the ILD business have resorted to steep rate cuts that we have had to match to remain competitive which has affected our traffic volumes, revenues and market share adversely. BSNL has already begun offering its own ILD services and other customers, such as MTNL, have said that they may start offering such services shortly. Some of the other telecom operators who are our customers are also National Long Distance (“NLD”) and ILD operators which carry their own traffic and also bid for traffic from other operators including BSNL and MTNL. In addition, as the Government of India has announced relaxation of the licensing conditions and reduction of entry fees for international and domestic long distance services from January 2006, several operators, many of whom are our customers, have obtained licenses and have started operations, thereby intensifying competition further. This is likely to affect the addressable market of the Company, resulting in a drop in traffic volumes and revenues from the NLD and ILD business. Further, the regulatory regime in India also permits negotiated rates for carriage of NLD calls. Many of the existing access providers are likely to acquire or have acquired NLD and/or ILD licenses. This is likely to affect the addressable market of the Company resulting in a drop in traffic volumes and revenues from the NLD and ILD business. In some lines of our international businesses, such as private leased circuits, end users are customers of foreign carriers and if the foreign carriers decide to choose our competitors over us, we may lose revenues in those lines of business. Further, the Government of India permitted the provision of Internet telephony by internet service providers (“ISP”) in India with effect from April 1, 2002. Furthermore, an increasing number of international calls to and from India are being made through the Internet, and this number is likely to increase substantially. While the effect of Internet telephony has been minimal due to the low rates prevailing in the ILD market and the limited penetration of computers in India, competition from this sector could adversely affect the Company’s telephony revenues in the future. The Regulator has recently recommended relaxing the restrictions on Internet telephony in India. However, the manner and timeframe for implementation of such regulatory changes relating to Internet telephony are not clear and may adversely impact the business of the Company. 6 Table of Contents We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network or we will not generate profits We must continue to increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network. This is particularly true because since 2002, our revenue mix has changed significantly from a voice-centric business to a more diverse model in terms of both products and geographic reach. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers and develop new large-volume customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network, which would adversely affect our ability to become profitable. With increased competition from new licensees, the Company also needs to leverage its existing infrastructure to realize better utilization of network, operating efficiencies and cost benefits. Further certain costs including costs related to repairs and maintenance can be of a fixed nature and, in the absence of revenues shall continue to adversely impact our profitability. Illegal international telephony operators have adversely affected our call volumes Our call volumes have been adversely affected by the international telephony services offered by illegal operators in India. These operators offer cheaper services since they do not pay Interconnect Usage Charges (“IUCs”) or ADCs or other regulatory payments, including license fees and taxes. According to various market estimates, these operators have captured around 15 percent of the incoming ILD traffic into India. Effective October 1, 2008, the TRAI has completely abolished ADC build into the IUCs to govern inter-operator settlements for costs passed between different networks. There is no assurance that abolishing this ADC will completely eliminate the illegal international telephony operations or that volumes of legitimate carriers like the Company would be favorably impacted. Telecommunications carriers that we do business with could suffer decreasing margins and financial distress, which may negatively impact our business As an international telecommunications service provider, the Company does significant business with foreign carriers all over the world. Several telecommunications carriers have in the recent past suffered reduced profit margins as well as significant financial pressures. Some of these companies have been acquired by other U.S. or European companies and are undergoing restructuring of their businesses. If any of the major carriers that we do business with encounters financial difficulties or files for bankruptcy, we may be unable to recover amounts owed to us. There can be no assurance that all the Company’s receivables can be collected or that the Company will not be adversely affected by the financial difficulties of other carriers. International voice telecommunications services continue to see market price erosion and a decrease growth in traffic volume from our traditional customer base, which may negatively impact our business Market pricing for international wholesale voice telecommunications services continues to see annual declines between 5-10 percent. As pricing approaches the cost of transmission and far-end termination, the Company may experience lower per unit net revenue, which will adversely impact the net income earned from the international voice business. In addition, while overall international voice traffic volumes are expected to continue to grow over the next 5 years, traffic growth will be driven by emerging wholesale customer segments. The Company’s traditional strength and market share in international voice telecommunications has been driven by traditional, incumbent carrier relationships (a segment that is expected to experience a decline in volumes). It is possible for the Company to maintain or marginally grow our current market share in each of the primary customer segments (Carrier, Mobile, ISP/Broadband/Web Telephony) but still experience overall market share decline because our growth rate could be slower than that of our competitors. Inability to meet industry growth estimates from each customer segment will adversely impact the net revenue and income of the international wholesale voice business. Our Mobile Global Roaming business may decline due to changing technologies Our wireless Mobile Global Roaming business provides roaming services for GSM, Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network, iDen, Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, or UMTS, and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, ESMR, networks around the world. However, it may be more difficult for us to provide roaming between other network standards, including networks based on third generation, or 3G, standards, because our service may not be able to work with such other standards to identify mobile subscribers’ locations and profiles. Within the last several years, some roaming providers have begun to use protocol gateways that 7 Table of Contents translate data from disparate networks into a single common language that permits the provision of roaming service to a variety of network types. As roaming services independent of the core GSM/UTMS network specifications become more prevalent, demand for our services may be reduced which would have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and financial performance. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business We have operations and investments outside of India and the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in India and the U.S.; • foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in India and U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including managed services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors, and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, our new service offerings, including new managed services, may not be widely accepted by our customers. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services, including new managed services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. Any serious damage to the undersea telecommunications cable systems utilized by the Company might adversely affect the Company’s traffic and thereby its revenues A major part of the Company’s international traffic is routed through undersea cable systems landing in India and other parts of the world as well as through cable systems between different countries. These cables are prone to damage, including cable cuts. Although such damage is normally not serious in nature and a portion of traffic can often be routed through other cable systems, serious damage or simultaneous multiple failure could occur. Any serious damage to major cables or simultaneous multiple cable failures could seriously disrupt traffic which might lead to losses in revenue. The Company may be held liable due to certain facilities, products and substance representing danger or problems for the environment The Company uses certain facilities, products or substances that might represent a danger or create problems for the environment. The Company believes that its activities as a telecommunications operator present no major risks for the environment. In particular, its activities do not use any production processes that seriously threaten rare or non-renewable resources, natural resources (e.g. water, air) or biodiversity. The Company stores fuel for its generators required for un-interrupted power to its installations at different locations wherever it has its equipment and facilities. Prevention programs have been adopted in light of the corresponding risks. In general, the Company applies accounting rules relating to environmental liabilities, and notably those concerning reserves for remedial action and the dismantling of sites, in accordance with current legislation and regulations. However, the Company cannot rule out the possibility of a change in legislation or regulations that would require it to incur additional expenditure and to set aside larger provisions in this respect. 8 Table of Contents Our technical infrastructure is vulnerable to damage or interruptions caused by earthquakes, floods, storms, fires, power outages, war, riots, intentional misdeeds and other similar events. Technical network and information technology system failures may result in reduced traffic, reduced revenues and harm to our Telecom’s reputation. Natural information technology system failures (hardware or software), human error or computer viruses may affect the quality of the Company’s services and cause temporary service interruptions. Currently, there is an increased risk of failure of the information system due to the acceleration of the implementation of new services and new applications relating to billing and customer relationship management. More specifically, incidents may occur while new applications or software are being installed. Moreover, the rationalization of the network based on implementing all-IP technologies could lead, in the case of a problem with the system, to total service interruption for a relatively greater number of customers than such a problem might have caused in the past. While the risk cannot be quantified, such events occurring on a country-wide scale could result in customer dissatisfaction and reduced traffic and revenues Internal Risks Our growth may depend upon our successful integration of acquired businesses We have made significant acquisitions in recent years including Tyco Global Network in 2005, and Teleglobe in 2006. The integration of acquired businesses, including our recent investments referenced immediately below, involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • higher integration costs than anticipated; • failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings, including through restructuring activities; • regulatory restrictions imposing a constraint on optimal designs for integration of OSS-BSS systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes -Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies. If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses or operations, we may experience material adverse consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of the acquisition. The Company has also entered into an agreement with Eskom and Transnet (two South African state-owned enterprises) on July 1, 2008 to acquire their 30% interest in Neotel Pty Ltd. (“Neotel”) the second network operator in South Africa. This agreement is subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions precedent, some of which have a period of up to 180 days to be fulfilled. Upon the implementation of the agreement, the Company together with Tata Africa Holding (SA) (Pty) Ltd will hold an effective 56% stake in Neotel. We have entered into a joint venture agreement with the shareholders of China Enterprise Communications Limited (CEC), according to which the Company will be acquiring a 50% equity interest in CEC subject to the approvals of the requisite governmental and regulatory bodies in Peoples Republic of China (“PRC”). Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services is held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. To the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property, this litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive; 9 Table of Contents • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty payments and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. Impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in various jurisdictions worldwide may not prevent misappropriation, and our failure to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise appropriate our proprietary network information. Our agreements with employees and others who participate in development activities could be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business We believe that our success in the future will depend to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We expect to experience significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. Our business is managed by a team of key executive officers and their immediate teams. Loss of any of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations and profitability may be adversely affected if the funding required for the plans is delayed The Company is dependent on its promoter shareholders i.e. the Strategic Partner and the Government of India agreeing to the proposals for raising non-debt funds such as subscription to the new shares or monetization of certain assets. This dependency arises in view of the provisions of the Share Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) among the Strategic Partner, the Government of India and the Company and the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company or due to the nature of assets which can be conveniently monetized. If the promoter shareholders do not agree to such proposals for any reason or due to any crisis in capital markets, the Company may not be able to implement its capital expenditure plans efficiently and, as a result, its operations and profitability may be adversely affected. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we become the victim of fraud or theft of services The industry in which we operate has incurred losses in the last several years due to fraud. Unauthorized transactions or theft of our services could reduce our profitability substantially. Although we have implemented various measures in order to control losses relating to fraudulent practices, we may not succeed in effectively controlling fraud when operating in the international or domestic Indian telecommunications markets. We endeavor to manage these theft and fraud risks through our internal controls and our monitoring systems. We believe that our risk management practices will be adequate, but there is no guarantee that we will succeed in effectively controlling fraud. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot fulfill our commitments on significant contracts We have undertaken a number of complex and large contracts with certain of our wholesale voice and enterprise and carrier data customers. If we fail to execute these contracts on time, it may result in reduction in our future revenues and in turn our profitability. Further, failure to meet our commitments under these contracts would result in damage to our reputation along with any potential legal implications resulting in financial losses. Our five largest customers collectively accounted for 18 percent of our revenues in fiscal year 2008. 10 Table of Contents We operate in an industry which is largely dependent on the decision and actions of our customers and there are various factors outside our control which may lead to termination of contracts. If due to any reason, we lose any of our major customers or they terminate the agreement entered into with the Company, it could negatively impact our revenues as well as our profitability and cash generation ability. Regulatory/Contingent Liabilities Risks Our profitability may be adversely affected if the decisions in respect of “revenue share” disputes are upheld against the Company In accordance with the terms of its license, the Company, has to pay a certain percentage of its Adjusted Gross Revenue (“AGR”) to the telecom licensor in India. The Company has disputed the definition of AGR and the matters are at various stages of dispute as per the dispute resolution process prevailing in the Indian telecom regulatory environment. In the event these matters are held against us, the Company’s profitability may be materially impacted. If certain tax claims by the Indian tax authorities are upheld, our financial condition would be adversely impacted The Company is subject to the following major tax claims in India: • Tax Benefit claims: The Indian tax authorities have disallowed tax benefits claimed by the Company in fiscal 1996 to fiscal 2005 with respect to a certain portion of its profits which the Company claims as having been generated by an enterprise engaged in telecommunications, in particular, that it is entitled to a tax holiday under certain regulations. Tax authorities in respect of nine out of the ten fiscal years have disallowed the claims of the Company which have been appealed by the Company before the Income- Tax Appellate Tribunal (“ ITAT”). ITAT rejected the claim made by the Company for fiscal 1996 and the Company has filed an appeal before the next jurisdictional authority i.e. High Court of Judicature at Bombay. The order of ITAT is effective for fiscal 1996 and should be construed in isolation for that year having a total tax cost on account of the tax benefit of Rs. 105 Million (US $2.62 million), excluding interest. A decision in respect of the balance one fiscal year is pending before tax authorities. If all of the claims appealed are decided against the Company, the aggregate negative impact on the Company would be approximately Rs. 6,275 million (US $156.80 million). • Tax on Reimbursements: Certain reimbursements received from the Government of India during fiscal 1994 were not offered for taxation and the Indian tax authorities levied taxes (inclusive of interest but excluding penalties) of Rs.629 million (US$ 15.72 million) which the Company paid under protest. The Company’s appeal has been dismissed by the first appellate authority. The Company has appealed to the ITAT. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the Company would be negatively impacted by that amount. • Levy of penalty: On account of disallowances of various claims expenses in fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002, a penalty aggregating Rs. 6,830 million (US $170.67 million) has been levied by the Indian tax authorities which has since been reduced to Rs. 4,926 million ( US $ 123.09 million) in the appeal filed before the first appellate authority. In respect of the penalty amount confirmed by the first appellate authority, the Company has filed an appeal before the Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. If the decision is not made in favor of the Company, there would be a negative impact on the Company of Rs. 4,926 million (US $ 123.09 million). Further, against the penalty amount deleted by the first appellate authority of approximately Rs. 1,904 million (US $ 47.57 million), the Company has also filed an appeal before ITAT, which if decided against the Company, would result in negative financial impact on the Company of approximately Rs. 1,904 million (US $ 47.57 million). We may not receive additional compensation from the Government of India for the early termination of our monopoly in international telephony services The Government of India allowed private operators to start offering ILD services from April 1, 2002, thereby terminating the Company’s exclusivity in offering such services two years ahead of schedule, and compensated the Company with a package of benefits. The Government of India had given assurance prior to the disinvestment of the Company that it would consider additional compensation if found necessary following a detailed review, when undertaken. However, prior to disinvestment of the Company in February 2002, the Government granted a dispensation as full and final settlement of every sort of claim against the early termination of the Company’s ILD monopoly and to ensure that the claim was not barred by limitation, filed a claim in Mumbai High Court in 2005. The Company has been pursuing the Government of India to consider providing it with additional compensation. There can be no assurance that our claim will be successful or that we will receive any additional compensation from the Government of India, or if we do receive compensation, as to the amount, nature or timing of such compensation. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Government of India, which could adversely affect the operation of our business and prevent us from entering into transactions that are in the best interests of our shareholders The Company and its businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Government of India and its departments, including the DoT, which issues and implements telecommunications licenses under the Indian Telegraph Act and the TRAI which, among other things, sets the terms and conditions which telecommunications operators are required to conduct in their activities. The Company operates substantially all of the ILD services it provides in India, including basic international telephony services to and from India, pursuant to a new license agreement with the Government of India that is valid until March 31, 2022. The Company also holds an NLD license and an ISP license. The DoT retains the right to modify the terms and conditions of the Company’s licenses at any time if in its opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunication sector. A change in certain significant terms of any of the licenses, such as their duration, the range of services permitted or the scope of exclusivity, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The DoT as the licensor is empowered to revoke the license granted by it for any breach of the license conditions. The Company must also annually renew various radio spectrum operating licenses from the Wireless Planning and Co-ordination Wing of the Ministry of Communications (WPC). Although it expects to obtain such renewals, the non-renewal or modification of these or any of its licenses, or punitive action by the Government of India for continuing these services without renewal of the licenses, could adversely affect the Company and result in lost revenues. The TRAI’s clearance is required for all the Company’s new initiatives on issues of pricing or the launch of new products. Failure to follow the TRAI directives may lead to the imposition of fines and other punitive actions. Any disputes between the Company and the Government of India (as the licensor) regarding the terms of the Company’s telecommunications licenses, as well as any dispute between the Company and the other service providers in India, is required to be adjudicated by the Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (“TDSAT”). Failure to follow the TRAI directives or TDSAT orders may lead to the imposition of fines and/or other punitive actions. Accordingly, government regulation and supervision could require us to enter into transactions or conduct our business in a manner that is not in the best interests of our shareholders. Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we do business could adversely affect our business The Company has interests in a large number of geographic areas across the world and must comply with an extensive range of requirements that are meant to regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of telecommunications networks and services. These requirements are likely to increase with the Company’s increased overseas expansion. In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the telecommunications industry. Decisions by regulators in various geographic areas regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licenses, to the Company or to third parties, could adversely affect the Company’s future operations in these geographic areas. The Company cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in which it intends to operate will issue the required telecommunications licenses on acceptable terms or at all. Further, as a multinational enterprise, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation by state, federal and foreign regulators. Some of the jurisdictions where we provide services have little, if any, written regulations regarding our operations. In addition, the written regulations and guidelines that do exist in a jurisdiction may not specifically address our operations. If our interpretation of these regulations and guidelines is incorrect, we may incur additional expenses to comply with additional regulations applicable to our operations. It is possible that one or more governmental agencies will disagree with our interpretation of existing laws or regulations and assert that our operations are not in compliance with those laws or regulations. In that event, it is possible that the governmental agency might initiate an enforcement action or impose restrictions on our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Financial Risk We have incurred substantial debt which could adversely affect us. The Company incurred substantial debt in fiscal 2008 primarily to finance its acquisitions, fund its capital requirements as well as fund the capital requirements of its subsidiaries. As of March 31, 2008, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was approximately Rs.30,420 million (US$ 760 million) We may also need to obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. 12 Table of Contents The significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include: • limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; • instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. In particular, if we are unable to implement our business plans in respect of the acquisitions financed by our indebtedness, we may be in breach of the repayment schedules as well as covenants in certain of our debt agreements; • the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures, and dividends that could improve our competitive position or results of operations; • requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavourable terms, to meet payment obligations; • compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and • the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as us, and competitors who may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources. Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and costs We are dependent on key third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components that are integrated into our network. We are also dependent on key suppliers who maintain our extensive cable assets (not restricted to undersea cable assets) for repairs and maintenance of these various forms of cable systems. If any of these relationships is terminated or a key supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment, we might be unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly and consequently could experience significant additional costs. If that happens, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operation. We have made, and in the future might make, substantial capital investments in new telecommunications projects which may be subject to liquidity and execution risk and, if not offset by additional revenue, might adversely affect our financial condition and operating results We have made, and might in the future make, substantial additional investments in new telecommunications projects, including in connection with technology upgrades and geographic expansion. These investments could require significant capital expenditures. The Company expended approximately Rs. 26,843 million (US$ 670 million) towards capital improvements in fiscal 2008 and we expect our capital expenditures in fiscal 2009 to be approximately Rs. 39,460 million (US$986 million). If this capital is not available when needed or if it is available on terms that are not attractive, our business will be adversely affected. In particular, recent uncertainty in the international credit markets, including developments related to concerns about the United States sub-prime mortgage market, may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. Increasing competition, offering new services such as our proposed cable projects, improving the capabilities or reducing the maintenance costs of our equipment or cost overruns or delays in our projects may cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future. Furthermore, telecommunications technology evolves rapidly and there can be no assurance that any investments in new technology will have a positive impact on the Company’s financial results nor that the Company’s capital expenditures in such projects will be offset by adequate additional revenue or margins. Litigation could be harmful and costly to our business We are defending material litigation described in Item 8 –“Legal Proceedings”. Regardless of the outcome, we will incur substantial legal costs. In addition, this type of litigation may strain our resources and divert management attention, causing our business to suffer. Further, any adverse outcomes in such lawsuits could materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Absence of a robust Business Continuity Plan could affect our business adversely The Company’s operations are dependent on various information technology (IT) systems and applications which may not be adequately supported by a robust business continuity plan. Absence of a robust business continuity plan can seriously impact our business in the event of a disaster of any nature. 13 Table of Contents Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NYSE rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, rules, and Indian stock market listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. Additionally, because of significant acquisitions and because of changes in our services and business as a result of technological, regulatory and competitive changes and delays in implementation of new information technology systems, we may face difficulties and increased costs in sustaining such compliance. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and our external auditor’s independent assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2008, our management assessed our internal controls over financial reporting, and determined that our internal controls were effective as of March 31, 2008, and our independent auditors have expressed an unqualified opinion over the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of such period. However, we will undertake management assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with each annual report, and any deficiencies uncovered by these assessments or any inability of our auditors to issue an unqualified opinion could harm our reputation and the price of our equity shares and ADSs. In connection with the audit of our statutory financial statements in India, independent auditors of our Indian GAAP financial statements in an annexure to their report noted that our internal controls for the rendering of certain enterprise data services need to be strengthened. We are in the process of implementing remedial actions towards strengthening such internal controls. Our auditor’s report on our Indian GAAP financial statements including the annexure thereto forms part of our Indian annual report, which is available on our website www.tatacommunications.com. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, our business and reputation may be harmed. Country Risks The Company’s business may be adversely affected by any slowdown in economic growth in India, the United States or other countries where the Company does business or by a slowdown in the growth of the IT sector The growth of telecommunications traffic is related to general economic growth and slowdowns in the Indian economy could result in slower growth rates in telecommunications traffic in India. A significant part of the Company’s revenues are derived from calls originating in India and the United States. During the year ended March 2008, approximately 43.05 percent and 21.64 percent of the Company’s operating revenues were from India and the United States, respectively. Slowdowns in India and the US economy, as well as in other countries where the Company does significant business, may negatively affect our business. The IT sector is a major contributor to the telephony and leased channel revenues of the Company and therefore the Company’s revenues might be adversely affected by slowdowns in the IT sector. A substantial portion of the Company’s assets are located in India and its outstanding shares are listed on the Indian stock exchanges. Accordingly, the Company’s performance, the market price and liquidity of the shares and of the ADS may be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, government policy and taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting India Since 1991, successive governments in India have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators remains significant in ways that affect all Indian companies, including the Company. 14 Table of Contents India has had frequent changes in government since 1996. The next general elections in India are due to be held in 2009. Political instability could delay the reforms of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our Shares and ADS. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and the Company’s business Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect the Indian markets where the Company’s Shares trade and also adversely affect the world wide financial markets. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence, make travel and other services more difficult and ultimately adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that there will not be any further terrorist attacks against India, the United States or any other country. Also as a result of such events, India, the United States or certain other countries where the Company has or may have major business interests may enter into armed conflict with other countries. The consequences of any potential armed conflicts are unpredictable. In addition, India has from time to time experienced unrest relating to religious and political differences within India’s population, as well as with its neighboring country Pakistan. Any increase in regional or international hostilities, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war could have a significant adverse impact on international and/or Indian financial markets or economic conditions or on Indian Government policy, thereby disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Such political tensions could create a greater perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, or the market price for the Company’s Shares and the ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of the shares and the ADSs The Indian securities markets are smaller in terms of trading volume and more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of listed securities. It is generally perceived that there is a lower level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants than in securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have experienced trading interruptions in the past on account of regulatory interventions as well as operational issues. If these interruptions were to recur, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including the Shares and ADSs, in both domestic and international markets. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Similar problems could occur in the future and, if they do, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the Shares and the ADSs. The Company and you may be subject to potential losses arising out of exchange rate risk on the Indian rupee and risks associated with the conversion rates between the Indian rupee and foreign currencies Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and the Dollar will affect, among other things, the Dollar equivalents of the price of the Shares in Rupees as quoted on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the Dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and the Dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Rupees of a sale of Shares in India. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee, the SDR (or “Special Drawing Rights”, which are based on a basket of key international currencies and are frequently used in foreign currency payment settlements) and other currencies also affect the Rupee amount of foreign currency settlement payments received by the Company from, and paid by the Company to, foreign telecommunications administrations and therefore the revenue and operating costs of the Company. The Company may as a result be exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies, which effectively may increase the cost in Rupee terms of foreign exchange payments required to be made by the Company, including payments to foreign telecommunications administrations and payments for imported equipment and technology. To reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuation on our operating result, the Company uses derivative instruments such as forward contracts to cover a portion of outstanding accounts receivables; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid the adverse affects of exchange rate fluctuations. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against the Company The Company is a limited liability company organized under the laws of India. All of the directors and officers of the Company and certain other persons named herein are India nationals and all or a significant portion of the assets of all of the directors and officers and a substantial portion of the assets of the Company are located in India. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect 15 Table of Contents service of process upon the Company or such directors or officers outside India or to enforce against them judgments obtained from courts outside India, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. The statutory basis for determining conclusiveness of foreign judgments in India is provided in Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (the “Code”) of India, which provides that a foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon except (1) where the judgment has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) where the judgment has not been given on the merits of the case, (3) where the judgment appears on the face of the proceedings to be founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases where such law is applicable, (4) where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice, (5) where the judgment has been obtained by fraud and (6) where the judgment sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. Section 44A of the Code, which deals with the enforcement and execution of foreign judgments, provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a court in any country or territory outside India which the Government of India has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, it may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by the relevant court in India. The United Kingdom, but not the United States, has been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purposes of Section 44A. Accordingly, a judgment of a court in the United States may be enforced only by way of a suit instituted upon the judgment in accordance with the Code and not by proceedings in execution. Furthermore, it is uncertain that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to execute such a judgment or to repatriate any amount recovered. Dealings with telecom service providers in countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and/or investor(s) in the U.S. and/or other countries to avoid doing business with us The United States, and from time to time other countries, has laws that may prohibit or restrict their citizens from engaging in business in certain countries, or that otherwise impose economic sanctions on such countries. International bodies such as the United Nations may also impose sanctions on certain countries from time to time. The United States currently has laws that prohibit or restrict its citizens from doing business in Cuba, Iran, the Sudan and Syria. As a major provider of international telecommunications services to customers in India, the Company enters into interconnection agreements with communications providers around the world. The Company has entered into agreements with providers located in certain of such countries, and entered into arrangements to facilitate the carrying of telecommunications traffic to and from such countries, and it may do so in the future. The Company does not believe that its business activities in or other contacts with Cuba, Iran, the Sudan or Syria are material in quantitative terms. The Company also believes that the business activities are qualitatively immaterial in terms of the factors that a reasonable investor would deem important in making an investment decision, including factors that would affect the Company’s reputation or share value. Specifically, the Company believes that such activities are immaterial because they represent the ordinary arrangements that any global provider of telecommunications services would have with providers all over the world. Indeed, as the exclusive provider of ILD traffic until 2002, unless so ordered to do so by law, it would have been inappropriate for the Company to refuse to accept traffic from particular countries, or refuse to carry traffic to particular countries. The Company believes the loss of its monopoly status does not affect the fact that it should continue to provide services globally. It is possible that in the future sanctions of this type imposed by the United States or others could adversely affect our ability to do business or the ability of investors to hold our securities. Currency and exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We incur network and other expenses and sell our products in various countries outside of India. These transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the US Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Euro. Moreover, we have outstanding foreign currency denominated debt and hence we are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our borrowings and foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations. Weakening of the rupee against the dollar or other major foreign currencies may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowing and consequently may increase our financing costs, which could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. Any depreciation in the value of the rupee against the dollar or other major foreign currencies may lead to adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations during the current fiscal year and in the future periods, partly due to an increase in our non-rupee denominated debt. The U.S. financial markets have experienced significant deterioration and volatility recently, which has had negative repercussions on the global economy and, as a result, could present new challenges for our business. Commencing in 2007 and continuing into 2008, certain adverse financial developments have impacted the U.S. and global financial markets. These developments include a general slowing of economic growth both in the U.S. and globally, substantial volatility in equity securities markets, and volatility and tightening of liquidity in credit markets. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets and businesses of our company may be affected, these developments could continue to present risks for an extended period of time for our company, including a potential slowdown in our sales to customers in the financial sector. Promoters/Shareholders Risks The Company is substantially owned by some of the Tata companies and the Government of India who have significant rights in relation to the election of the Company’s board of directors (“Board of Directors”) and may have interests which conflict with those of our other shareholders, including holders of our ADSs As of March 31, 2008, Panatone Finvest Limited, a company wholly owned by some of the Tata companies, owns 40.70 percent, and the Government of India owns 26.12 percent, of our total outstanding equity. Two other Tata companies own 9.41 percent of our total outstanding equity. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement (“SHA”) pursuant to which they have agreed on certain matters with respect to the governance and operation of the Company, including the composition and election of the Board of Directors. As of September 30, 2008, our Board of Directors consisted of eleven members, five of whom were nominated by Panatone Finvest Limited and two of whom were nominated by the Government of India. There were four independent directors on the Board as per the provisions of the Shareholders’ Agreement. The Company has received a letter dated 18 September 2008 from Panatone Finvest Limited recommending that Prof. Ashok Jhunjhunwala be invited to join the Board of Directors as a Director liable to retire by rotation. A Circular Resolution proposing Prof Jhunjhunwala’s appointment as Director has 16 Table of Contents been circulated to the Directors. If and when the Circular Resolution is approved, Prof. Jhunjhunwala will be appointed as Additional Director liable to retire by rotation. As a result of their equity holdings and the Shareholders’ Agreement, certain rights are reserved for affirmative vote from the nominee directors of Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India thereby together have significant control over the matters that come up for consideration at the meetings of the Board and of the shareholders of the Company and as per the SHA by acting together at the meetings they have the power to elect the directors and control all matters submitted to shareholders. There can be no assurance that the interests of Panatone Finvest Limited and/or the Government of India would be the same and their respective interests could differ from the interests of our other shareholders, including the holders of ADSs. Future sales by the Government of India of its shares in Tata Communications may impact Tata Communications share price As of September 30, 2008, the Government. of India stake in Tata Communications is 26.12%. If or when the Government of India decides to further reduce its stake in the Company, the manner in which Government of India decides reduce its stake and the selection of the buyer of such stake, may have an adverse impact on the Company’s share price. The Company may face potential conflicts of interest relating to its principal shareholder, the Tata companies The Tata companies have diverse business activities and interests, and some of their affiliates could engage in activities, or seek opportunities, that are or could be in competition with the activities or interests of the Company. The Tata companies have interests in other companies in the telecommunications sector, such as Tata Teleservices Limited. The Tata companies and Panatone Finvest Limited have agreed in a Shareholders’ Agreement to act in the best interests of the Company in the event that they become engaged in activities in competition with the Company. However, any conflicts of interest between these Tata companies and/or Panatone Finvest Limited and the Company could adversely affect the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company may loose significant amount of business which it generates from Tata Teleservices Limited, a major contributor to the Company’s NLD business. Disagreements between the Tata companies and the Government of India concerning activities of the Company could result in a deadlock, which could adversely affect the Company’s business Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India have agreed in the Shareholders’ Agreement that the Company shall not undertake certain corporate actions unless at least one director nominated by each of them (in the case of a Board meeting) or at least one authorized representative nominated by each of them (in the case of a shareholder meeting) consents to such action. These actions include any change in the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, the granting of any security or incurring of indebtedness in excess of the net worth of the Company, the winding-up the Company, the making of loans in excess of Rs.500 million other than in the ordinary course of business, the sale or lease of any fixed assets acquired prior to privatization and the entering into of an amalgamation, merger, or consolidation. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India have also agreed not to transfer their shares in the Company without giving the other certain rights of first refusal and tag along rights. In the event that Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India fail to agree on any such matter, their disagreement could result in the Company not taking action or not taking advantage of a potential opportunity, which could in turn adversely affect the Company’s business or the value of the Company’s ADSs or Equity Shares. The demerger of surplus land held by the Company may not be completed on satisfactory terms Under the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement, Panatone Finvest Limited agreed that the Company would demerge certain lands that the Company owns in Pune, Kolkata, New Delhi and Chennai, India into a separate company. No time period was specified in the agreement for such demerger. The Company, Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government are currently discussing various options in connection with the demerger or sale of the land. Until such time as the demerger takes place, the lands are under the possession and upkeep of the Company. VSNL Employees Co-operative Housing Society, Chennai had moved the Hon’ble Delhi High Court seeking directions to the Company, Government of India (GoI) and the strategic partner in respect of their long pending issue of transfer of 32.5 acres of land situated at Padianallur, Chennai to the Society. The said piece of 32.5 acres of land forms a part of the surplus land and, therefore, the Company submitted before the Hon’ble High Court, its custodial position by virtue of the SHA in respect of the surplus land. The Hon’ble High Court after hearing the matter decided in favor of the Society. The matter was appealed by the Government of India for review of the decision which was finally dismissed by the division bench of Hon’ble High Court. Thereafter, with the due approval of the Board, in order to comply with the orders of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court, the Company has proceeded to transfer the said land to the Society as per the orders of the Hon’ble Delhi High Court. 17 Table of Contents The Company cannot predict if the demerger will take place or the expenditure that the Company might have to incur for the security, upkeep and maintenance of the surplus land. The Company may have to bear significant costs, including taxes and duties, relating to the demerger, and the Company cannot predict what effect, if any, the demerger and the legal and valuation process relating to the demerger will have on the Company’s financial condition. Risk related to the ADSs Sales of our Equity Shares (shares) may adversely affect the prices of our Equity Shares and ADSs Sales of substantial amounts of our Equity Shares or the perception that such sales may occur could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Equity Shares or the ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the issue or the effect, if any, that future sales of our Equity Shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. Holders of ADSs have no voting rights Investors in ADSs have no voting rights unlike holders of the Equity Shares who have voting rights. It is contemplated that the Bank of New York Mellon, as depository for the Company’s ADSs. (the “Depositary”) will exercise its right to vote on the Equity Shares represented by the ADSs as directed by the Company’s Board of Directors. Investors may withdraw the Equity Shares underlying the ADSs and seek to vote the Equity Shares obtained from the withdrawal. However, for foreign investors, this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. There is a limited market for the ADSs Even though the ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there is no assurance that any trading market for the ADSs will be sustained. Subsequent to the open/ tender offer by Panatone Finvest Limited, the number of shares represented by ADSs declined from approximately 60 million (21 percent of our issued and outstanding Equity Shares) as of March 31, 2002 to approximately 16 million (5.67 percent of our issued and outstanding Equity Shares) as of March 31, 2008. This may affect the liquidity of the market for the Company’s ADSs and the price at which they trade. Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause the Company’s Equity Shares to trade at a discount or premium relative to the market price of its ADSs Until recently, under Indian law it was not permitted for a depositary to accept deposits of outstanding equity shares and issue ADSs evidencing such shares. Thus, an investor in ADSs who surrendered an ADS and withdrew equity shares would not be permitted to redeposit those equity shares to obtain ADSs, nor would an investor who purchased equity shares on the Indian market be permitted to deposit them in the ADS program. The Government of India has recently permitted two-way fungibility of ADSs. However, this is still subject to sectoral caps and certain conditions, including compliance with the provisions of the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depositary Receipt Mechanism) Scheme 1993 and the periodic guidelines issued by the Government and also registration requirements in the United States. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause the Company’s Equity Shares to trade at a discount or premium to its ADSs. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us The Companies Act, 1956, (the “Indian Companies Act”), a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obliged to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision on whether to do so will depend on the costs and potential benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. 18 Table of Contents There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. 