D. Risk Factors Our business and operating results could continue to be adversely affected by unfavorable macro-economic and market conditions, resulting in reductions of capital and operating expenditures by our customers. Broad macro-economic weakness previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand for our products and services that adversely affected our business and operating results. In fact, many of our customers significantly reduced their capital and operating expenditures as they sought to conserve capital, reduce debt or address uncertainties or changes in their own business models. The prolonged recovery from the global financial crisis, budget deficits in several key countries, the instability of the geo-political environment in many parts of the world, and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Difficult market conditions in the telecommunications industry persisted in fiscal 2015 due to aforementioned economic conditions and uneven network operator spending. We do not know how long these uncertain macro-economic and market conditions will persist, the pace of recovery, and the magnitude of the impact of these market conditions on our business and results of operations. Continued or increasingly adverse economic and market conditions could result in, among other things: · difficulty forecasting, budgeting and planning due to the uncertain spending plans of current or prospective customers; · increased competition for fewer network projects and sales opportunities; · increased pricing pressure that may adversely affect revenue and gross margin; · higher cost structure compared to revenue level; · increased risk of charges related to excess and obsolete inventories, write-off of deferred tax assets and tax credits, and impairment of intangible assets and goodwill; · customers' financial difficulties and increased difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and · additional restructuring costs. Our business and operating results could continue to be adversely affected by periods of unfavorable macro-economic and market conditions, or the worsening of those conditions globally or specific to a particular region where we operate, and any resulting reductions in the level of capital and operating expenditures of our customers. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Canadian dollar, US dollar, euro and other currencies may adversely affect our revenues and operating results. Our functional currency is the Canadian dollar but we report our results in US dollars. As a result, any increase in the value of the US dollar versus the Canadian dollar and euro could adversely affect our revenue because we generate a certain percentage of our sales in Canadian dollars and euros but we report them in US dollars in our financial statements. For example, the increase in the value of the US dollar relative to the Canadian dollar and euro negatively affected our revenue in fiscal 2015. 3 Table of Contents We are also exposed to a currency risk in terms of operating results because the majority of our revenues are denominated in US dollars and euros, but a significant portion of our cost of sales, operating expenses and capital expenditures are denominated in Canadian dollars, US dollars and other currencies such as euros, British Pounds, Rupees (India) and Renminbis (China). Even though we partially manage our exposure to currency risks with forward exchange contracts (by selling US dollars for Canadian dollars and US dollars for Indian Rupees) and certain operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar, namely the US dollar and euro, we are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Canadian dollar on one hand and the US dollar, euro and other currencies on the other. Any increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar and other currencies, or any unfavorable variance between the value of the Canadian dollar and the contractual rates of our US dollar-Canadian dollar forward exchange contracts, could result in foreign exchange losses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations also flow through statement of earnings line items, since a significant portion of our cost of sales and operating expenses are denominated in Canadian dollars, euros and Indian rupees, and we report our results in US dollars. Any decrease in the value of the US dollar relative to the Canadian dollar and other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and provide competitive advantages to our competitors. We must continue to overcome significant competition in our targeted industries in order to keep or gain market share and achieve our growth strategy. The market for our business activity ─ namely designing, manufacturing, marketing and selling test, service assurance and network visibility solutions for fixed and mobile network operators, web-scale service providers and telecommunications equipment manufacturers ─ is rapidly evolving and is marked by intense competition and technical innovation. We anticipate the pace of change to remain high or even accelerate for our targeted industries in the future. We might see the emergence of new competitors or the consolidation of current competitors, as the markets for telecommunications test, service assurance and network visibility solutions evolve in response to technical innovations and economic conditions. Main competitors in the test equipment environment include global suppliers like Anritsu Corporation, Danaher Corporation (namely subsidiaries of Danaher: Fluke Networks), and Viavi Solutions (formerly a division of JDS Uniphase Corporation), as well as other players such as AFL Noyse, IXIA, Kingfisher International, ShinewayTech, Spirent Communications plc, VeEX Inc., and Yokogawa Electric Corporation. On the service assurance side, we mainly compete against Accedian Networks, Anritsu Corporation, Empirix, IXIA, Viavi Solutions (formerly a division of JDS Uniphase Corporation), NetScout Systems, Inc. (including the 2015 merger of Netscout Systems and Tektronix Communications), Spirent Communications plc, Guavus and Teoco. Some competitors have greater financial, technical and/or marketing resources than us. Consequently, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, manufacturing, selling and support of their products in order to capture market share. Competitors also may be better positioned than us to capture market share or to acquire companies and new technologies that would potentially displace our products or render them obsolete. We cannot predict whether current or future competitors will develop or market products that offer higher performance, more features, or are more cost-effective than our current or future products. To remain competitive and achieve our growth strategy, we must increase our sales and develop cost-effective products and product enhancements that offer higher performance and more functionality, in current and new sectors, so that we can increase our market share. Our failure to do so may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 4 Table of Contents We have faced pricing pressure on our existing products and expect this pressure will continue. If we do not continue to lower our manufacturing costs or introduce new products with higher margins, our gross margin may decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected. Increased competition in the telecommunications test, service assurance and network visibility markets, along with consolidation among competitors and customers, will likely result in ongoing downward pressure on average selling prices. For example, some of our customers have been subject to consolidation and could obtain products from a vendor other than us, or demand more favorable terms and conditions from us, which would harm our sales and operating results. In addition, some customers may merge with or acquire our competitors and discontinue their relationships with us. This, in turn, may negatively affect our gross margin. Pricing pressure can result from a number of factors such as, among other things: · increased competition for business; · reduced demand; · limited number of potential customers; · competition from companies with lower production costs, including companies operating in lower-cost environments; · introduction of new products by competitors; · greater economies of scale for higher-volume competitors; · large customers, who buy in high volumes, can exert substantial negotiating leverage over us; and · resale of used equipment. As pricing pressure will likely continue to affect our existing products, we may have to increase the number of units sold to maintain our existing sales levels. If we are unable to increase our sales levels, lower our manufacturing costs, or introduce new products with higher margins, our gross margin may decline and our operating results may suffer. We may not be able to make the acquisitions or strategic alliances needed for the development of our business and, if we do make such acquisitions or strategic alliances, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses, products, technologies and personnel or realize the expected benefits of strategic alliances. We intend to carefully seek businesses through acquisitions and alliances, whose products and technologies are complementary to ours, or which will enable us to expand our markets and/or our market share. However, we may not be able to make any such beneficial transactions or a sufficient number of such transactions to meet our strategic goals. Our competitors may be in a better position to acquire the same businesses, products and technologies that we wish to acquire. Our fluctuating stock price, cash position, or ability to raise capital or issue debt on favorable terms at the time of an acquisition may also affect our ability to complete such an acquisition. Acquisitions or alliances could also distract management's attention from our day-to-day business and operations. In the event of any future acquisition or strategic alliance, we could, among other things: · issue shares that would dilute individual shareholder percentage ownership; · incur debt; · assume liabilities and commitments; · incur significant expenses related to acquisition costs; · incur significant expenses related to amortization of additional intangible assets; · incur significant impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets related to such acquisitions; and · incur losses from operations. In the event that we complete acquisitions or sign strategic alliances, we may be unable to successfully integrate acquired companies or realize the expected benefits of alliances. Integration risks include, among other things: 5 Table of Contents · the risk of not realizing the expected benefits or synergies from such acquisitions or alliances; · problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies, products and personnel; · risks associated with the transfer of acquired know-how and technology; · unanticipated costs or liabilities; · diversion of management's attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of acquired organizations. Ultimately, the failure to make acquisitions or strategic alliances, or the inability to effectively integrate acquisitions and realize the expected benefits of alliances, could disrupt our overall business and harm our financial condition. If we fail to adapt appropriately to the challenges associated with operating internationally, the expected growth of our business may be impeded and our operating results may be affected. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2015, customers outside of the United States and Canada accounted for 54.1% of our sales. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot establish and maintain relationships with international distributors, set up additional foreign operations, expand international sales channel management, hire additional personnel, develop relationships with international network operators, web-scale service providers and network equipment manufacturers, and operate adequate after-sales support internationally. Even if we are able to successfully operate and expand our international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including, among other things: · challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations due to the limited number of qualified candidates, employment laws and business practices in foreign countries, any of which could increase the cost and reduce the efficiency of operating in foreign countries; · fluctuations among currencies; · our inability to comply with import/export, environmental and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with unexpected changes in such regulations; · measures to ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate and effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future; · failure to adhere to laws, regulations and contractual obligations relating to customer contracts in various countries; · difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; · inability to maintain a competitive list of distributors for indirect sales; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · economic instability in foreign markets; · wars, acts of terrorism and political unrest; · language and cultural barriers; · lack of integration of foreign operations; · potential foreign and domestic tax consequences; · technology standards that differ from those on which our products are based, which could require expensive redesign and retention of personnel familiar with those standards; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles and possible difficulties in collecting payments which may increase our operating costs and hurt our financial performance; and · failure to meet certification requirements. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recurrence of weakness in these economies or of weakness in other foreign economies could also have a significant negative effect on our future operating results. 6 Table of Contents Our reliance on software development resources in India and manufacturing personnel in China may expose us to unanticipated costs or liabilities. In addition to research and development centers in Quebec City, Canada, Montreal, Canada, Concord, Canada, Boston, United States, and Oulu, Finland, we maintain a software development center in Pune, India. We also manufacture products at our wholly-owned production facility in Shenzhen, China. Over the years, we have significantly increased our software development and manufacturing activities in India and China, respectively. There is no assurance that our reliance on software development resources in India and manufacturing personnel in China will enable us to maintain our cost structure at current levels, achieve additional cost savings, or generate greater resource efficiency. Furthermore, our software development and manufacturing efforts abroad involve significant risks in addition to the ones disclosed in other risk factors: · difficulty in hiring and retaining appropriate engineering and manufacturing resources due to intense competition for such resources and resulting wage inflation; · exposure to misappropriation of intellectual property and proprietary information; · heightened exposure to changes in the economic, regulatory, security, and political conditions of these countries; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · changes in tax compliance in India and China; · cash management and repatriation of profit; and · high inflation rates which could increase our operating costs. If we are unable to adapt to current and future changes in technology or if we are unable to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, our products may become obsolete, which could prevent us from achieving our growth strategy and adversely affect our operating results. The industries that we serve are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and industry standards that result in frequent new product introductions. For example, many network operators are increasingly shifting their spending towards virtualized networks. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond to new technological developments, customer requirements or evolving standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The development of proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead times. The success of our new product introductions will depend on several factors, including, among other things, our ability to: · properly identify and anticipate customer needs; · innovate and develop new products; · gain timely market acceptance for new products; · manufacture and deliver our new products on time, in sufficient volume and with adequate quality; · price our products competitively; · continue investing in our research and development programs; and · anticipate competitors' announcements of new products. Failure to do the above could be exploited by our competitors. If we lose market share as a result of lapses in our product development, our business would suffer. Our products may have unforeseen defects that could harm our reputation, impede market acceptance of our products and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Given their complexity, our products may contain undetected software or hardware defects, inaccurate calibration or compatibility problems, or regulatory compliance issues, particularly when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing and diligent efforts, defects will not be found in new products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions, or that customized products will meet customer sign-off acceptance requirements. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems or meet custom requirements, we could experience, among other things: 7 Table of Contents · costly repairs; · product returns or recalls; · damage to our brand reputation; · loss of customers, failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; · diversion of development and engineering resources; · legal actions by our customers, including claims for consequential damages and loss of profits; and · legal actions by governmental entities, including actions to impose product recalls and/or forfeitures. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our intellectual property and proprietary technology are important to the continued success of our business. Our failure to protect this proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant extent on our proprietary technology, with which we attempt to prevent others from using the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. As of August 31, 2015, our records indicated that we held the following portfolio of utility patents: 55 active granted US patents, 32 granted or validated patents in countries of the European Union, 6 patents in Canada, 10 patents in China, and 3 patents in other jurisdictions. In addition, we have 41 utility patent applications (including provisional applications) pending in the US, 19 patent applications at the European Patent Office or directly entered at the national patent office of an EU member country, 2 applications in Canada, 11 applications in China and 9 applications in other countries, as well as 1 International Application under the Patent Cooperation Treaty that has not yet entered the national/regional phase. The expiration dates of our active issued patents range from 2016 to 2032, and no patent deemed as currently being of material importance will expire in 2016 or 2017. Our records also indicated that we held 8 granted "design" patents, as well as 9 pending design patent applications, in the United States and several other international jurisdictions, as of August 31, 2015. We also rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and license agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We may have to engage in litigation, formal opposition proceedings, or the like in order to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation and opposition proceedings can be time-consuming and expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future application will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if a patent is issued in a particular jurisdiction, it will not be subsequently invalidated at the patent office as a result of a third-party-initiated opposition procedure. Moreover, we cannot be certain that an issued patent will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, distributors and third parties. However, these agreements may be breached or otherwise rendered ineffective and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or shortfall of these agreements. In any case, others may come to know about our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of some jurisdictions in which we sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of Canada and the United States. 8 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights, particularly our existing or future patents, may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or required to be licensed to others. Our intellectual property rights are important assets for us. Various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are distributed. Also, the efforts we have undertaken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate or reverse engineer our technology, or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. We cannot be sure that the steps that we take to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation or infringement. If we fail or are unable to protect our technology, thereby enabling others to copy or use it, we will be less able to differentiate our products and our sales may decline. Others may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, or they may infringe our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the technology industry and third-party infringement claims involving technologies may increase. If an infringement claim is filed against us, we may be prevented from using some of our technologies and may incur significant costs to resolve the claim. Conversely, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights. Non-practicing entities (NPEs – also informally known as "patent trolls") are increasingly asserting patent claims against companies working in the Information and Communications Technology domain. Because their entire business model is predicated upon undertaking legal action to extract licensing and/or royalty fees from legitimate "practicing" entities, such as EXFO, they often initiate such litigation even if the purported relevance of their patent claims may be questionable. Consequently, we may be obliged to reach a negotiated monetary settlement or embark upon costly legal proceedings if an NPE asserts such claims against us. More generally, we could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims asserted by any third party (including notably competitors), or in bringing infringement claims against others. Litigation could also adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technology and divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We cannot assure you that we, or our customers, could obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. If we fail to obtain a license where one is required, we could incur substantial liabilities and be forced to suspend the marketing of the challenged products. Our use of open source software in our products could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. Some of our products contain software licensed to us by third-party authors under "open source" licenses. If our proprietary commercial software were to incorporate open source software, we might, under the terms of certain open source licenses, be required to license that combined software as well as release the source code of the combined software to third parties. This could allow third parties to use our proprietary software at no charge, could enable our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time, and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales and lower revenues for us. 9 Table of Contents We could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. Moreover, we cannot assure you that our internal processes for controlling our use of open source software in our products will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products, to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished in a timely manner, to allow third parties to use our products at no charge under the terms of that open source software license, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary software, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our sales and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and significant fluctuations may occur in the future. Because our service assurance and wireless test systems vary in size and complexity and in certain instances require customer acceptance before revenue recognition occurs, our sales may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Many of our deals involve lengthy sales cycles, contract negotiations as well as extensive product testing, installation, laboratory or network certification, including network-specific or region-specific processes. In addition, our sales and operating results generally depend on the volume and timing of the orders we receive from customers as well as our ability to fulfill received orders. On the other hand, our cost of sales and operating expenses, which include manufacturing overhead costs, selling and administrative, research and development, as well as depreciation and amortization expenses, are relatively fixed in the short term. If we sell fewer products than anticipated, if there is a delay in the launch of new products, or if prices for our products decline, we may not be able to quickly reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses in response to lower sales. Factors that could affect the amount and timing of our sales and cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include, among other things: · length of the sales cycle for certain products, especially those that are higher priced and more complex; · sales cycle prolonged by lengthy customer acceptance; · timing of product launches and market acceptance of our new products for us as well as those of our competitors; · our ability to sustain product volumes and high levels of quality across all product lines; · timing of shipments for large orders; · effect of seasonality on sales and bookings; and · losing key accounts and not successfully developing new ones. Our sales and operating results could also be volatile due to a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including, without limitation: · fluctuating demand for test, service assurance and network visibility solutions; · changes in the capital spending and operating budgets of our customers, which may cause seasonal or other fluctuations in product mix, volume, timing and number of orders we receive from our customers; · order cancellations or rescheduled delivery dates; · pricing changes by our competitors or suppliers; · insufficient or excess inventory; · variations in the mix between higher and lower-margin products and services; · customer bankruptcies and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · restructuring and impairment charges; · foreign exchange rate fluctuations; · general economic conditions, including a slowdown or recession; 10 Table of Contents · distorted effective tax rate due to non-taxable/deductible elements and unrecognized deferred tax assets; and · effects of recent acquisitions of businesses. We may in the future choose to reduce prices, increase spending, or modify our product portfolio in response to actions by competitors or in an effort to pursue new market opportunities. These actions may also adversely affect our business and operating results and may cause our quarterly results to be lower than the results of previous quarters. Due to these factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. We depend on short-term arrangements with a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for some key components and materials in our products, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for some of the parts used to manufacture our products for which alternative sources may not be readily available. In addition, all of our orders are placed through individual purchase orders and, therefore, our suppliers may stop supplying parts to us at any time. Our reliance on a single source or limited number of suppliers could result in increased costs, delivery problems, reduced control over product pricing and quality and could require us to stockpile critical parts. Financial difficulties of suppliers could also affect our ability to obtain necessary parts in a timely manner. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts could significantly harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and cause us to lose sales. Furthermore, the process of qualifying a new manufacturer for complex parts designed to our specifications, such as our optical, electronic and mechanical parts, is lengthy and would consume a substantial amount of time of our technical personnel and management. If we were required to change a supplier in a short period of time, our business would be disrupted. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in identifying a new supplier capable of meeting and willing to meet our needs on acceptable terms. Consolidation involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternatives available to us and increase the cost of parts, which would make our products less competitive and result in lower margins. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial information or prevent fraud, which could harm our operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial information and effectively prevent fraud. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess and that our independent auditor attests to the design and operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our compliance with the annual internal control report requirement for each fiscal year will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting as well as data systems and controls throughout our company and operating subsidiaries. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the event of acquiring companies that are not in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As well, the complexity of our systems and controls may become more difficult to manage as we transform our operating structure and as we potentially reduce infrastructure costs. To effectively manage these changes, we will need to continue to adapt and/or improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement newly required or improved controls or adapt controls, difficulties encountered in their operation, or difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system, could harm our operating results or prevent us from meeting our financial reporting obligations or result in a restatement of previously disclosed financial statements. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on our share price and our access to capital. 11 Table of Contents We require employees and managers who are knowledgeable about the specialized nature of our business. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical, sales, marketing, senior management and other personnel, our operations and financial results will suffer. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of and on our ability to attract qualified engineering, sales, marketing, senior management and other personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must also provide significant training for our employees due to the highly specialized nature of the telecommunications test, service assurance and network visibility markets. The knowledge base of our current personnel may be inadequate or we may fail to assimilate and train new employees. Highly skilled employees with the education and training that we require – especially employees with significant experience and expertise in international business development, product management, sales, engineering and operations – may be difficult to find. Once trained, our employees may also be hired by our competitors or leave the organization. We may become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings that may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. We may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and an adverse result may arise from time to time that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any litigation to which we are subject could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management attention from our business and operations. In addition, the failure of our products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to product liability and warranty claims. We carry insurance for product liability and take accounting reserves for warranty claims that we consider adequate in view of industry practice, but this may not be sufficient to cover all potential liability. We may also face other types of claims by third parties in relation to the conduct of our business. A successful claim against us for an amount exceeding our policy limits would force us to use our own resources to pay the claim, which could result in a reduction of our cash available for other uses, increase our expenses and have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we suffer loss to our factories or facilities, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our factories and facilities may be subject to catastrophic losses due to fire, vandalism, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. We do not have redundant multiple-site capacity and if any of our facilities or factories were to experience a catastrophic loss, it would disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses, thereby harming our results of operations. Unexpected declines in our research and development and other tax credits and grants may have an adverse effect on our business. Our historical operating results reflect substantial benefits from programs sponsored by Canadian federal and provincial governments for the support of research and development activities conducted in Canada. In addition, EXFO Oy is entitled to government grants from a Finnish technology organization for research and development activities conducted in Finland. Altogether, research and development tax credits and grants represented 12.3% of our gross research and development expenses for the year ended August 31, 2015. 12 Table of Contents Our research and development projects entitled to government grants from the Finnish technology organization must be pre-approved and the grant is subject to certain conditions. In the event a specific condition is not met, we may be required to reimburse a portion or the entire amount of the grant received, which would have material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If changes in laws or government policies terminate or adversely modify the Canadian federal and provincial government programs or the Finnish government program, under which we receive the majority of our research and development and other tax credits and grants, or if we unexpectedly become unable to participate in or take advantage of these programs, then our net research and development and other expenses will materially increase or we may decrease our research and development activities. For example, in March 2012, the Canadian federal government announced a series of measures that, among other things, reduced our Canadian federal tax credit rate on eligible expenses from 20% to 15% starting in calendar 2014. In addition, effective June 2014, our provincial tax credit rate on eligible expenses decreased from 17.5% to 14%. In addition, to the extent that we may increase our research and development activities in India, or potentially acquire new companies, our increased R&D activities may not be eligible for these programs. If we were required to decrease our research and development activities, or were unable to benefit from other tax credits and grants, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from tax audits, including international inter-company transfer price audits, may have an adverse impact on our results. As an international corporation, we are subject to taxation in the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and this determination requires the interpretation and application of complex tax laws and regulations. Our global effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by the level of earnings, by changes in the mix of earnings/losses among companies and countries which may have different statutory tax rates, by the write off of our deferred tax assets, by the intercompany transfer price used and by changes in tax rules and regulations. We are also subject to income tax and transfer pricing audits in the respective jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these audits and review the adequacy of our provisions for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes of these tax audits will not result in liabilities in excess of our provisions, which can have an adverse impact on our results and financial condition. Our current principal stockholder has effective control over our business. As of November 1, 2015, Germain Lamonde, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, held 94.7% of the voting rights in our stock. By virtue of his stock ownership, Mr. Lamonde has effective control over all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our Directors, and exercises significant control over our policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and may harm the market price of our shares. If we complete major acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may need additional capital, and may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and could increase our costs. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict because they depend on numerous factors, including the success of our existing and new product offerings as well as competing technology and market developments. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to meet additional working capital requirements, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities. As at August 31, 2015, we held $27.4 million in cash and short-term investments. 13 Table of Contents We may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, reduced access to credit facilities and our operating performance. These factors may render the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive for us. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. If we raise funds through debt financing, we could incur significant borrowing costs and be required to meet restrictive debt covenants. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed or at terms satisfactory to us, our ability to operate and grow our business could be impeded. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure. We rely upon the capacity, efficiency and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructures and those from third parties, as well as our ability to expand and update these infrastructures, in response to our evolving needs. Any failure to manage, expand, update or secure our information technology infrastructures or any failure in the operation of these infrastructures could harm our business. Our information systems and third-party systems may be vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, theft of information and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruption, security breach or cyber-attack results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, it could harm our business. In addition, these events may force us to devote more money and resources in order to protect ourselves against damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. Compliance with SEC rules relating to "conflict minerals" may require us and our suppliers to incur substantial expense and may result in disclosure by us that certain minerals used in components and/or products we contract to manufacture may contain such "conflict minerals". The SEC adopted disclosure requirements under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, regarding the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo ("DRC") and adjoining countries. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as "3TG." Because we use components which contain tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold, the SEC rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the DRC or an adjoining country (collectively referred to as "covered countries") and to perform further supply chain due diligence on the source and chain of custody of those minerals to determine if they originated in one of the covered countries and, if so, whether they financed or benefited armed groups in the covered countries. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all metals used in our products. As a result, the costs of the aforementioned diligence efforts by us and by our suppliers could be significant. In addition, disclosures by us mandated by the new rules which are perceived by the market to be "negative" may cause customers to refuse to purchase our products. We are unable to assess the cost of continuing compliance with this rule, and there can be no assurance that the cost will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The additional disclosure rules were effective for calendar year 2013 and we made our first annual filing on May 30, 2014. 14 Table of Contents If we are held liable for the violation of the applicable anti-bribery laws, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the applicable anti-bribery laws in countries we do business, which generally prohibit companies, their subsidiaries, their affiliates and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. The anti-bribery laws generally apply to companies, individual directors, officers, employees and agents. Under the applicable anti-bribery laws, companies may be held liable for actions taken by agents or local partners or representatives. If we or our intermediaries fail to comply with the requirements of the applicable anti-corruption laws, governmental authorities in the U.S., in Canada or other countries could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price has experienced substantial volatility in the past and may remain volatile in the future. Volatility in our stock price can arise from a number of factors discussed in this "Risk Factors" section. Our stock price will fluctuate based on our financial performance and growth expectations. It can also be affected by public announcements from our competitors and our customers in the telecommunications industry. In addition, turmoil in credit markets and in the broader economy can contribute to share price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets. During fiscal 2015, our closing stock price on NASDAQ ranged from a high of $4.40 per share to a low of $2.45 per share. These aforementioned factors, including volatility often unrelated to the operating performance of our company, may materially affect our stock price in the future. 15 Table of Contents 